3. Nosenko's Knowledge - Damage to the KGB

[MSR] has mentioned Nosenko's disclosures to the Americans concerning the microphones in the U.S. Embassy—her only reference to information he might have provided—on each occasion when she has discussed Nosenko. She once attributed to Svirin the remark in October 1966 that Nosenko had done considerable harm to the Soviet Union by revealing this information, thus (and specifically only in this context) underscoring the importance of Nosenko's information. (Nosenko himself has characterized this information as the most important he has provided.) The context in which she has discussed Nosenko has been the general one of defectors from the Soviet Union; she has repeatedly emphasized that the Soviets attempt to convince all Soviet citizens that “anybody who defects will find his grave by the hand of KGB people” (MSR). With reference to Nosenko, she once quoted Svirin as having said that Nosenko, too, would one day be exterminated, thus clearly implying that Nosenko was a genuine defector.

4. Parallels with Nosenko's Reporting

a. The Cherepanov Case

Her account of Cherepanov's disaffection, treason, arrest, and execution confirms in general outline and in emphasis that of Nosenko. [MSR] claims direct knowledge of the case through her own and her husband's personal friendship with Cherepanov and his wife. [MSR] described her husband, in fact, as the only friend of Cherepanov who remained faithful enough after Cherepanov's downfall to call on Cherepanov's widow, whose address [MSR] knew. This direct knowledge is comparable to that of Nosenko and Svirin.

She introduced her account of the Cherepanov case, as in her discussions of Nosenko, by references to the determination and effectiveness of the KGB in apprehending and executing those who were “running away”; she offered Cherepanov as an example of a Soviet traitor who had been caught and executed. Her account of the details, however, differs sharply from that of Nosenko (and others). Her identification of Cherepanov as a classmate of her husband at the GRU's Military Diplomatic Academy (MDA) from 1956 to 1959 is unique among the sources who have reported on Cherepanov. For the period during which [MSR] said Cherepanov attended the MDA, Nosenko has made no specific statements concerning Cherepanov's career; he has said only that at some unspecified date after Cherepanov's return from Belgrade (elsewhere reported as mid-1956) and before early 1960 Cherepanov had been assigned to the U.S. Embassy Section, American Department, KGB Second Chief Directorate. [MSR] also stated, however, that after his graduation from the MDA in 1959, Cherepanov “finally” obtained a job in the Ministry of Foreign Trade, suggesting that he had no intervening assignment. Where Nosenko has failed to establish a clear motive for Cherepanov's having collected KGB documents during his assignment to the U.S. Embassy Section for later transmittal to the Americans, [MSR] has described his increasing bitterness from the date of his entering the MDA in 1956. She was not sure that he had been a KGB officer; she neither mentioned nor did her account allow for his assignment to the U.S. Embassy Section in 1960–1961 (as stated by
