11. Preference for next assignment.

11A. Describe specifically the type of work you would prefer for next assignment if different from that indicated in item No. 9 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choice.

After completing three years as a case officer in the Washington Base, I feel that a change of assignment would be beneficial both to myself and WOFIRM. In past assignments I have served as a field case officer in several field stations and as a desk chief and staff officer at Headquarters. My personal/professional interests lie in the field of international relations in the Far East (I have taught international politics at the college level and currently am completing a Ph.D. degree as a part-time after-hours student). I would like to be assigned to a position in which I could utilize my past operational experience as well as my substantive interests. My first choice would be a tour with WOHORN, or, if a position there is unavailable at this time, a similar position within WOMACE.

11B. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking the appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next regular assignment by inserting 1, 2, and 3 for first, second, and third choices in the remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour.

Extend tour: blank months at current station to: blank.

Be assigned to HOSTS for a tour of duty. Indicate your choice of division, staff, or office. First choice: WOHORN. Second choice: see above. Third choice: blank.

Be assigned to another field station. Indicate choice of geographic area or specialization. First choice: blank. Second choice: blank. Third choice: blank.

Return to my current station.

To be completed by field station.

12. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

Subject is highly qualified for a senior staff job requiring analytical ability in the geographical area of the Far East. As noted above, Subject has expressed a desire to be assigned to a position of this type in WOHORN. In view of Subject's professional interest in the field of international relations in the Far East, it is recommended he be assigned to WOHORN, or, if a position there is not open at this time, a similar position within WOMACE.

To be completed by appropriate headquarters office.

13. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee, his preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of your component, indicate your component's recommendation for his next assignment and training.

I concur in the recommendation of the Base Chief stated in paragraph 12.

Date: 30 Oct '68. From: G/NO/1. Signature: Stanley H. Gannan.

For use by Career Service.

Approved. ASign. De fcc. 12/26.

Approved. ASign. Date. Comp No. Date.
