To the Center for International Friendship in Guadalajara, CICARD also boasted of the moral necessity for the Cubans to help free Latin Americans from the drudge of misery and oppression. When the undersigned jointly asked whether this included Mexico, CICARD said that the Cubans had to watch themselves in that country and would do nothing there. The undersigned, by way of conclusion, warned him that any effort in Mexico was doomed, as the Cubans would get nowhere in that country even if they tried. At another point of the visit, both CICARD and SALAZAR denied vehemently that Cuba had supported any opposition movement in Mexico or that it had backed guerrilla movements in Guerrero and elsewhere. Both CICARD and SALAZAR several times joked in the presence of their Soviet friends that any American aggression against Cuba would probably mean Russian reprisals against the United States, but that Cuba in any case was ready for any alternative.

While at the Hilton Hotel, where the group stayed in Guadalajara, the undersigned, who was looking out a window overlooking the garden in the back of the hotel where the pool is, spotted CICARD, SALAZAR, and CHERNYSH late on the evening of 18 May, just prior to leaving for the railroad station, engaged in an animated conversation. While CICARD looked over his shoulder, SALAZAR scribbled something on the paper which he handed CHERNYSH. The same day, about half an hour before going to the station, Reynaldo CEPEDA Hernandez and his wife arrived at the Hilton, where they were eventually introduced to the undersigned by CICARD as “our First Secretary.”

The undersigned later asked CICARD what CEPEDA was doing there since he was not part of the group and since the Cubans have no consulate in Guadalajara. With a broad smile CICARD said he was on “vacation.” At one point of the visit, the bus used by the group left without the undersigned, the Cubans, and the representative of Ecuador and his wife. It was agreed to proceed to the banquet which was to be held at Chapala, some 55 kilometers away, by taxi, if the taxi could not first locate the bus in the city. The bus was not located, and the little group proceeded to Chapala, where to the undersigned’s amazement CICARD paid for the entire taxi trip and refused money from the others.

3. Lino SALAZAR is undoubtedly one of the most uncouth, vulgar, and all-around uneducated men the undersigned has ever met. A light mulatto, SALAZAR speaks with such a heavy
