He represents nothing. He's a sort of hopeless person. She's a very dynamic woman. Verges claimed that she had become a police informer for the Algerian police, and that she talked to very opposite groups and occasionally to Shaxtakka (Shaxtakka) and Mamani of the Salawa party in Algiers. But she no longer has anything to do with Revolution Africaine. I don't know what she is doing. She wouldn't have anything to do with Verges after the moment that she refused to go to Lausanne. You see, he was there.

Why?

Why did she refuse to go? Well, she couldn't leave Carlos by himself. God knows what would happen to him. Secondly, she had wanted to be all the time in Algiers. She wasn't interested in running a magazine in Switzerland; the magazine interest was secondary to her.

There was another Portuguese-speaking person in Algiers. That was a man by the name of Braganza. Braganza is a Goan, a Goan who has lost his reason for being with the end of the Portuguese colonial rule in Goa. He should have gone back! But he had been a Goan revolutionary with the Portuguese opposition. For years he had been in Rabat, hooked up to, at that time, the CONCP, Conference Nationaliste des Colonies Portugueses, which grouped together the Eilemo (FRELIMO), what later came to be the Falimo (FRELIMO), and the MPLA. It was part of the hard-line countries. There was another one elsewhere which was soft-line. Braganza was also a sort of adviser to Revolution Africaine on questions of India and so on. He stayed on and worked with Mohammed Harbi and came to London.

Did he have anything to do with Patricia Macgowan?

Yes. They had been together in Rabat.

Did he have anything to do with Carlos?

Yes. It's all the same crowd. But Carlos was waiting for destiny to call him, and Braganza had already lost his chance. The Indians had got in. They'd liberated Goa, so what next, you know? Go back to India. He obviously wasn't going to go back. He was living too well, as it was. And in Goa, nobody knew him. He was a Goan educated in Portugal. One of these people really without a real national identity. He knew that he wasn't Portuguese and had this feeling of alienation from Portugal, which made him like most of the colonial students there—the MPLA really started in Portugal—made him an oppositionist. He didn't have enough roots with the homeland. So he's just sort of floating around. His wife is a schoolteacher. He speaks excellent French. He was working for Revolution Africaine. I don't know if he still is. I'm certain he'll find something to do. He'll never go back to Goa.
