104-10102-10237

Dispatch. To: Chief, Special Affairs Staff. From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE AKR. Subject: Operational/TYPIC/AMTRUNK Project AMTRUNK Operational Review. Action required. References.

Processing: Marked for indexing.

Priority.

Action: Request Headquarters decision on continuation or termination of Project AMTRUNK.

1. Attached herewith is an operational review of and progress report on the AMTRUNK team for the period of 4 through 31 March. Station views on the operation are summarized below.

2. The AMTRUNK operation has the following disadvantages or weaknesses:

A. The AMTRUNKers admit to being anti-KUBARK and to be working “with” KUBARK now only because there was no other alternative if they were to accomplish their mission. In other words, these agents will cooperate with KUBARK only when it is to their advantage. It is believed that if the operation were to develop, control would diminish rather than increase in the advanced stages of the operation, since the need for KUBARK assistance will decrease as operational successes increase. It is believed that AMICE/27 would have no hesitation “selling out” the operation to any one of the major refugee political groups at any time that he felt it advantageous to do so. It is believed that, if he is not already doing so, he is most likely to collaborate with either the Segundo Frente del Escambray (Es cambray), headed by Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, or the MRP faction headed by Manuel Ray. In the meantime AMICE/27 will attempt to have his own way with the operation. He believes that he is receiving special attention because of his ZRMETAL connections, and he will not hesitate to go behind KUBARK’s back to AMTRUNK/1, AMCAPE/1, and ODACID or higher authority, if the operation or KUBARK handling of the AMTRUNKS does not progress to his liking. Since AMTRUNK/1, according to AMCAPE/1, “masterminded” this operation in the first place, it may be assumed that the AMTRUNKS will withhold nothing from AMTRUNK/1.

Distribution: C/SAS with attachments.

Date typed: 5 April 1963. Dispatch symbol and number: UFGA-8381. Date dispatched: April 5, 1963.
