Section C. Status of Service Agreement.

(To be completed by Career Service Approving Official.)

Form 3101, Service Agreement, is attached.

Because of temporary absence of the nominee, Form 3101, Service Agreement, will be forwarded at a later date.

(1) Nominee has over 15 years of Agency service or (2) nominees cannot be readily contacted to sign a Service Agreement. The signed “Application for Membership in the Career Staff of the CIA” on file in the nominee's Official Personnel Folder should be accepted in lieu of Form 3101, Service Agreement.

Nominee is overseas and a signed “Application for Membership in the Career Staff of the CIA” is not filed in his Official Personnel Folder. Form 3101, Service Agreement, will be requested from the field upon notification that the CIA Retirement Board has recommended approval of his nomination.

Section D. Recommendation of Head of Career Service.

1. Based on his career assignment and past and prospective performance of qualifying service, this employee is recommended for designation as a participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System. He is serving in a career field which normally requires the performance of qualifying service as an integral part of a career in that field.

2. Typed name and title.

3. Signature of head of career service.

4. Date.

Section E. Recommendation of CIA Retirement Board.

1. The record of this employee has been reviewed and the CIA Retirement Board has recommended on (date) that this employee:

Be designated as a participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System.

Not be designated as a participant.

2. Typed name and title.

3. Signature.

4. Date.

Section F. Determination by Director of Personnel.

1. In accordance with Regulation 20-50, this employee is designated or not designated a participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System.

2. Signature of Director of Personnel.

3. Date.

Section G. Additional Information.

I certify, subject to any examination in this host country of my interpretation and translation of the original in English by American interpreters, that I have read and fully understand the contents of the document(s) presented below and that I accept the responsibility inherent in its preparation.
