Because of his status as a tourist, it may be assumed that the Government carries out spot checks on him; if he were to be seen by the Government or Security agents in company of LOG, it is pretty certain that they would take him in and interrogate him. He thinks that this can be avoided if they do not see each other so often.

10. LOG agreed with S’s reasoning and added that he himself realized that they were getting together too often and also could not be 100 percent sure that he was not tailed sometimes. Therefore, he will work out a plan by which they will be able to see each other whenever needed and will limit their regular personal meetings to twice per month. He went on to tell S that he would pick an appropriate spot at which S would place a chalk sign when he needed to see LOG urgently; LOG would pass by the place every morning, and if he saw the sign he would erase it, which would assure S that he understood his request. They would then meet the same evening at a place (restaurant) which they would select only for this purpose. LOG concluded by stating that this was the general idea and that he would work out the details, which he would explain to S at their next meeting, to be held in two weeks, i.e., August 4.

11. S commented that the plan looked good and that if LOG was sure it would work, then there was no need for them to meet more than once a month. LOG stated that two meetings per month were needed in spite of the fact that he was positive that his system was dependable.

12. S told LOG that he had not spent any of the MN 400.- he gave him for the purpose of establishing contact with an official of the Rat Chinese Emb and consequently wanted to return the money. LOG told him to keep it for himself and that he would give him money, as much as needed, if he had an opportunity to entertain TANG.

13. There was some inconsequential talk, and LOG told S to come to the French Club any Saturday and that he would teach him to play tennis. LOG explained that he was going to the club every Saturday at about 1000 hours; S would be allowed to enter if he said that LOG was waiting for him.

HHPernald
