Dispatch. To: Chief, E. Info: CUSG, SR, FGB. From: Chief of Base, Bonn. Subject: REDCAP LCIMPROVE AELADLE AELADLE LEAD.

1. During a meeting with Weyde on 21 May 63, he referred to his visit to Washington to debrief AELADLE. He stated that on one occasion, while he and Dr. Meier were riding in a car with AELADLE, AELADLE casually referred by name to a KGB officer presently assigned in Germany, commenting that he knew the individual very well and knew that his political views were the same as his own, but that Western intelligence should leave the individual alone as he would probably one day make the same decision as AELADLE on his own.

2. By the time Weyde realized the significance of what AELADLE was saying, the name had slipped by and neither he nor Dr. Meier was able, or felt he could, ask for the name again. After leaving AELADLE, both Weyde and Meier tried to recall the name of the individual but could only agree that the name began with an “A”. In reviewing the present Soviets assigned in the GFR whose names begin with “A”, Weyde tends to think the name mentioned might have been Akhluyev (2OT-294340), although he is far from certain on this point.

3. We have very limited information in our files on Akhluyev and none indicating KGB affiliation. He arrived at the STN on 16 February 61 along with his wife, is carried by the BEV as an employee of the trade mission, and resides within the trade mission building.

4. The above lead, although very sketchy, appears definitely worth pursuing and we wonder if it would be possible to query AELADLE in some manner. Weyde had the impression that AELADLE desired to protect the individual from any intelligence approaches based on his information, so he has probably not submitted any details. It may, however, prove profitable to review with AELADLE again some of the Soviets assigned in West Germany and work in all the “A” names. AELADLE might thus give some information which would help us to establish the identity of the individual he mentioned in the car. Please advise if this is possible.

Index. Distribution: Lester S. Redmiles, 201-49783. CS copy, 24 May 63, TCR-. Dispatch symbol and number: EGNA-25E31.
