Dispatch.

To: Chief of Station, Mexico City. From: Chief, W/ Division. Subject: Edward G. TICHBORN. Action required: See below. References: A. SDOM-1020; B. MEXI-6828.

1. Edward G. TICHBORN spent June 1 and 2 in the Headquarters area and departed the morning of 3 June for an overnight stop in Dallas before his return for Mexico City. Prior to his departure, TICHBORN was advanced $100 which will be TAd to the Station for final accounting.

2. During his stopover here, he met with representatives of the Dominican Republic Desk as well as DYVOUR Staff and Mexico Branch personnel. In these debriefings we touched specifically on his activities in connection with the Dominican Republic election; his estimate of the outcome of this election; his plans for the future, particularly his departure from Mexico; the termination of LIREAM; and his proposal for the continuation of his relationship with KUBARK.

a. Dominican Republic Election:

Although TICHBORN painted a rather bleak picture of the possible results of the election, his comments concerning the situation pertaining at the time of his departure from the island contributed to Headquarters understanding of developments in the days immediately preceding the election and on the election day. The DYVOUR Staff representative and the Dominican Republic Branch representatives specifically commended TICHBORN for the excellent work he had done during his temporary assignment to the Dominican Republic in connection with this election operation.

b. TICHBORN Future:

We discussed TICHBORN's personal situation and desires for the future at some length. Although not being able to offer specific promises of long-term employment on his terms at this time, we advised him that the Agency would probably have recurring requirements, albeit relatively infrequent, for a man with his talents and experience. However, the limited requirement for such specialized activity in the DYVOUR area.

Cross reference to: D-50-126-36/3. Dispatch symbol and number: HMW-11638. Date: 17 JUN 1966. HQS file number: 201-253203.

Chrono. RI-(1 - 201-253203). (1 - 50-126-36/3). Originating office: WH/1. Originating officer: Paul Kittredge. EAT.: 3655.
