which had long had a standing grudge against that and saw no way of doing away with, but obviously they weren't all as left as Babu.

Osman made—you had, for instance, Osman Sharif, who may be Ambassador to the United States. He was made Ambassador there. He went to Tanganyika, where he was going to be here in London—I think he was the High Commissioner in London—for a very short period of time. And then when the merger came, it was the Tanganyikan High Commissioner who represented the merged countries, with Omar Zoran still staying on as the Secretary, Dennis Phombeah going to the UN, where he had been in Geneva at one point, now in New York, Sharif going to Washington.

(And was recently recalled.)

Yes. Sharif's position is extremely shaky, but they really disliked him greatly. Because he is the head of the Sharif family, they couldn't strike him down right away. What they wanted to do really was to put him in a position where he would finally be bought out. They figured that he would go over to the Western side. One day or the other he would jump. And that's the way of getting rid of him—without them having to do anything. That's one reason he was sent to Washington. They thought that after a while he would.

(Not much for Babu. Now on the board.)

Now we have Maulana Bhashani (Mulana Bashani)—he is a Pakistani. Dennis Phombeah was unable to continue his work. He was unable really to do anything. He was just collecting £60 a month. The reason that he did absolutely nothing was that the actual work was done by a Pakistani named Hamza Alavi.

Hamza Alavi, a former secretary, third secretary or something, of the Pakistan National Bank. He is a Marxist; I doubt that he is actually a member of the Communist Party. He comes from the Ismaili (Ismaeli) sect. His family is extremely wealthy and has holdings in Tanganyika, a fibre plantation. He also has relatives in Zanzibar. When he was asked by Dennis Phombeah to go to Zanzibar to help straighten out their balance-of-payments problems, which he wanted to do, his family told him that if he did he'd never come back to them, since they had lost some money.

He is a great friend of Ralph Miliband (Milleband) of LSE here. He is an academic. He has contacts with Trotskyist groups. His contacts with the British Communist Party are not very good. He is very easygoing, a rather soft personality. He is by no means 100% or even 50% pro-Chinese, in particular because he doesn't approve of Chinese support for President Ayub Khan. This led to his replacement finally.
