Section II. Motivation and Control.

1. Estimate Subject's motivation. Estimate Subject's primary motivation is financial. He has a large family (wife and seven children) and has, in the past, been accustomed to a high standard of living. Possibly his prior occupation was real estate. Also, he probably has a continuing ideological interest in deposing Castro.

2. Indicate what control, if any, exists over the Subject. No real control exists over Subject other than financial. He needs gainful employment to provide for his family. However, manipulation of his resident alien status, aviation occupation property, and U.S. licenses could offer control elements.

Section III. Cover.

1. Cover used by Subject and case officer in their meetings. The principal agent represents himself as an employee of the SAVE case officer, who in turn is documented as an agent of the Government of the Republic of the Congo. However, although no U.S. Government interest is overtly manifested, it is realistic to assume that Subject substances 30.

2. Cover used by Subject in obtaining his information and in contacting his informants. N/A.

3. Indicate service for which Subject thinks he will work or is working. In all probability he is or will become aware that the COC air program is sponsored by KUBARK.

Section IV. Intelligence Connections and Training.

1. Explain Subject's known past or present connection with any other intelligence service. Indicate the extent such connection is known overtly. Subject was a leader in one of the anti-Castro resistance cells in Cuba prior to 1960. He was also a leader of an anti-Castro resistance group in New Orleans after emigration. His file indicates liaison (linson) with the FBI concerning this group's willingness to cooperate with the U.S. Government in operations against Cuba. In his connections with the FBI he was extremely conscious (connecious) of all requests of security to the extent that he submitted to be programmed for any breach of security or evidence of collusion (collusión). His record indicates no connection with any other national intelligence service.

2. List other individuals (agents, relatives, friends) who know of Subject's present intelligence activities. Probably wife and brother, Maria, and possibly some acquainting personage in the Miami area. However, Subject's file indicates attention to personal security in control of information concerning political affiliations and objectives.

3. Explain any training Subject had in clandestine operations. Subject has no KUBARK training in clandestine operations. However, while residing in Cuba he participated in resistance operations against Castro. His planning in behalfence above through, relationship, and intent.

Section V. Collaboration Potential.

1. Indicate other foreign persons Subject is most likely (most lirely) to collaborate with because of his ideology or past associations. Explain. Subject may collaborate with any government or group presenting a well-conceived, financed, and well-financed program for re-invasion of Cuba. Still, predisposition of collaboration becomes less likely as his personal moment to Cuba are lost and urgent political tasks mount.
