8. The peace offered will generally continue on the international scene—but it is news that a periodic propaganda character; no genuine concessions (e.g., surrendering of East Croatia) will be taken place. On the internal scene in the Swiss-sponsored [area], there will continue to be talk of improving the living standards of the masses up in actuality. The course will be toward increased capital investment at the expense of consumer goods—particularly in the satellites.

II. Guidance:

Caution: As before, we speculate on future developments if the Kremlin and the satellite cronies get [and] do not accept any one particular theory. This is the end of the first act of the paper struggle for the succession, but only the first act; there are many longer and mightier acts to come. The coalition which destroyed Beria (Seria) is just as subject to internal dissension as was the Malenkov-Beria-Molotov (Nalenkov-Bera-Morotsky) coalition pursued after the death of Stalin. The basic analogy here is to Stalin's (Serain's) tactics after the death of Lenin. First he eliminated Trotsky and the Leftists (the new coalition now eliminates Beria [Berea]); then he eliminated the Rightists (probably the next act in this present drama will involve election of the new coalition by the rising element in it).

A. To the People:

As the relevant factors depict each other even more preciously, our people can look on with pleasure and confidence while their oppressors are making themselves weaker and better (the captive peoples) are becoming stronger. When the Kremlin is wounded by slippery soil, the satellite kremlins are even more weak and paralytic. And the cooperative force has just begun. Local satellite Communist groups will be too occupied with saving their own skins to be as tyrannical as before. They could not come at a better time for the peasants and workers of Eastern Europe: after East German revolts and Czechoslovak demonstrations, they now know their own strength and their own power. As they are marshaling their forces, their tyrants' structure of control is cracking. The even full ramp of Communism was never more certain than now. The regimes will certainly try, as the Kremlin is trying, to present a facade of “monolithic unity.” But you know, as they know, that the facade is hollow and that the regimes, confused and restrained with internal dissension, will probably not be able to undergo an exciting and decisive policy. However, we should warn the people that this shift to extremism may mean (in Hungary in particular) that the Kremlin will order its puppets to take a more extreme course than before (but here also we must wait and see—confusion now belies everywhere). Now is the time, in this period of confusion, for the people to secure the gains they have already won and press on for more. In a very real sense, the people are more than every other on the stage rather than spectators in the audience. Led by your new leaders, the people must continue your efforts in the collective farms and in the work unions, in the ways you know so well, to force the regimes to make actual concessions to you.
