The Escapee Program was originally outlined in Department 678, January 29, 1952 (Top Secret), which indicated that the Program would be undertaken through contracts with voluntary agencies to provide certain supplies and services to escapees of recent fate. In addition, as the largest and most important voluntary agencies operating in Europe are of a religious nature and endeavor to stay clear of undertakings which have political implications, it was determined that the Escapee Program would suppress the political nature of its operations in order to secure and maintain the “good will” and cooperation of these agencies. In our relationships, however, with certain agencies of extrinsic character, e.g., CHP—American Fund for Refugees, especially when those agencies are directed by individuals in whom USEP has complete confidence, little, if any, action has been taken to suppress or discontinue USEP political implications.

There is, however, a tendency on the part of USEP officials to suppress political applications of the Program in their arrangements with several agencies, due to their lack of confidence in the leadership of these agencies. Mrs. Schaus (Schaus), Tolstoy Foundation; Sheba Odeeman, American Friends of Russian People’s Union; Max Brandt, Organization for Rehabilitation through Training; Anna Watson, InternationalBoose (International Rescue) Committee; and Michael Bodys, United Ukrainian American Holiday Committee, are examples of directors in whom USEP has little confidence. This lack of confidence arises from the fact that those personalities apparently have their own axes to grind.

USEP has revealed, however, and will continue to reveal to a limited extent, the political nature of the Escapee Program to certain selected persons in the voluntary agencies who are subject to the necessary degree of direction, and in whose confidence may be maintained. This course of action is motivated primarily by the fact that political overtones of the Program cannot be wholly hidden from an intelligent person, yet it is not in the Program’s best interest to advise officially the religious bodies of the political escapees. Although the major religious agencies undoubtedly are aware of the political aspects of the Program, they choose to ignore them so long as they are not involved directly in any political operations, and so long as they are not advised officially of them.

6. Questions: Are there any means through which assistance to desiring members of USEPE (already on the caseloads) can be expedited up?

USEP officials throughout the area are continually encouraging interested parties to Program benefits to the ultimate recipients. This is applicable to the entire caseload of all agencies and has not in the past been predicated upon membership in any organization which may or may not be of interest to U.S. Government agencies. In this way, USEP officials extend Program benefits to all those eligible without bringing unnecessary attention upon individual members of a particular organization of interest to agencies of the U.S. Government. Further, USEP
