Tape No. 3, Gibson.

“What do you think about that—Malcolm X?”

I could have told you it was coming.

“Well, you did. You didn't single out Malcolm X.” It becomes—make—now comes the real thing. It's going to happen in the States.

You remember the Algerian struggle throughout was marked by clashes between the MMA and the FLN right up to and after independence. And this is what is going to happen now in the States, as far as I can see. But what I don't really like is—there are so many small groups, uncontrollable little groups, kids, fifteen-year-old kids who are planning to shoot the President, and that sort of thing. You don't know how far it goes.

So the idea of being a leader—a leader of what? As to Black Ghettoes, there's this thing—I don't know who [was] responsible.

“Do you think that was Elijah?”

I'm not at all certain. There are many, many, many people who would be glad to see Malcolm out of the way. For one thing, it does resolve a certain problem, and that is, there was a clash. Certainly it was going to come about between Williams's group and Boggs' men in Detroit and Malcolm X, people who were more committed to an armed struggle. Malcolm's major contradiction was that what he was preaching should have led, logically, either to negotiations with Washington, to some kind of arrangement, or else to an armed struggle, an underground struggle.

As soon as you have a vocal leader who is exposed and who is in the country, on one hand he knew what was happening. He was very much aware of this proliferation of groups and activities, like the little business of Walter Bowe, which really was highly innocuous, in comparison—highly symbolic and almost innocuous—in comparison with some of the things.

His trips abroad, most of his trips abroad were, in a way, because he wanted to create unity by contacts with Williams and other Black people, but here, in Europe and Cairo. One of the problems that he had was simply in getting to Williams. He didn't want to go to Havana. He probably could have brought an extraordinary amount of pressure on the State Department to allow him to go as a journalist or something like that if he really wanted to. But he didn't want to, because he didn't want to be exposed on a political issue which might have cost him support. So where was he going to see Williams? Prague, perhaps, Moscow. But he didn't want to go to Eastern European countries either.

“You said that one of his ideas might have been to negotiate with”
