Fitness Report

Section A. General Information.

Employee number: 024345. Name: Phillips, David A. Date of birth: 10/31/22. Sex: M. Grade: GS-18. SO: D. Official position title: Chief, WH Division. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDO/WII/O-CH. Current station: Headquarters. NOB: DF.

Type of Appointment: Annual.

Reporting period: 1 May 1973 - 31 March 1974. Date report due in O.P.: 30 April 1974.

Section B. Qualifications Update.

If Qualifications Update Form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the word “YES” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “NO” in the box at right.

Section C. Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unsatisfactory. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Plans, organizes and implements the programs of the Operations Directorate in the Western Hemisphere area. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Supervises approximately 255 staff employees in Headquarters and 310 in 26 Stations and Bases abroad. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Represents the Agency in contacts with senior representatives of liaison services. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 4: Represents the Directorate and/or the Agency in official contacts with other components of our government. Rating letter: S.
