21 April 1970

Subject: Interview with Alexander Sanko.

1. Sanko was contacted by phone (927-6721) on the morning of 21 April, and he agreed to meet with “Joseph Horris,” an official of the U.S. government, later the same morning at his home: 1647 Rodman Street, Hollywood, Florida.

2. Sanko accepted my credentials without any reservations. He is a Caucasian male in his 60s. He is of strong build; “white” gray hair; small clear eyes which require thick glasses to read. His most distinguishing feature is a large tattoo on his right forearm. He has a loud, booming voice, with a New York accent, and although he does not appear to have much formal education, he is articulate and sociable. He appears to be retired now and spends his days playing chess with a business associate. He lives in a clean, middle-class neighborhood and has a Lincoln Continental, about 3 or 4 years old, in the garage.

3. After speaking with him for over half an hour, Sanko does not appear to know Cresbes Guillermo Ruiz Perez. Sanko answered my questions in a straightforward manner, and I have no reason to doubt his testimony. Specifically, these are the facts as Sanko related them:

A. The name Cresbes Guillermo Ruiz Perez—it was typewritten on a 3 x 5 card—means nothing to him. His business associate, who has worked with him for many years and especially during the 1950s, does not recall the name.

B. Sanko acknowledges that from approximately mid-1958 until approximately the end of 1959, he owned the “Fruit Center”—a grocery, meat market, and fruit store—at 100 SW 17th Avenue, Miami, one block from Flagler Street. He does not recall that anyone in his employ answered to the name Cresbes Guillermo Ruiz Perez, or any combination of these names. He never had anything but an impersonal employer-employee relationship with his personnel.

C. The last time he had been to Cuba was approximately 1948, “when I went down from New York.” He denied several times that he had been to Cuba after Castro took power in 1959.

D. Sanko had bought the “Fruit Center” from a Mr. Pivu Woods, who also owned the property in the vicinity of 100 SW 17th Avenue. Sanko dismissed the personnel Woods had in the store when he bought it. He does not know the whereabouts of Woods at this time, but presumes he still owns the property.

E. Naturally, Sanko was curious to know why we were after Ruiz. To satisfy his curiosity and perhaps elicit some admission, in the event he was playing games with me, I disclosed these bits of information:

Hilary K.
