13 December 1966

Subject: Contact Report / LICOZY-5

13 December, 1930–2000, Hotel Reforma

1. The C/O arranged to deliver some liquor to the subject at the time he was hosting an Air France cocktail at the Hotel Reforma. After the liquor was transferred to the subject’s car in a nearby parking lot, the subject recounted to the C/O the story of a visit he had had from Valentin Loginov that day.

2. The subject reported that Loginov came to his office unannounced and prevailed on the subject to step down to the street to have a coffee with him. Loginov presented the subject with four bottles of vodka for Christmas, and then started to ask the subject some personal questions.

1) How had the subject left Poland after World War II for Paris—had his documentation been legal or illegal? The subject answered that it was legal.

2) How was he able to enter Paris—did he have a valid French visa? The subject said he did. How long did he stay in Paris? The subject said a few months.

3) Was he released from service with the Polish UB? The subject said yes. Nor were there any conditions to this release. Was he supposed to be contacted by the Poles? The subject said yes, and related the story of how he was contacted in Mexico in March 1955 by a Polish diplomatic courier who brought a letter from the subject’s old boss in the UB, Stanchuk (phonetic), and how the subject answered that letter. Comment: Believe the story given in some detail in the debriefing of the subject on his experiences in the UB and World War II. Loginov wanted to know if the subject’s response to the Poles had been positive or negative. The subject said it had been neutral. Asked why, the subject replied that he believed that eighty percent of the Poles were anti-Soviet. Loginov said, “You are right.”

4) Loginov asked the subject how he was getting along with the American airlines he deals with. The subject said, “Fine,” and asked why. Loginov said that maybe, if the subject had the chance, he could learn the name of the director of the CIA in Mexico. The subject told Loginov he was crazy, or couldn’t be serious; he couldn’t get that information. Loginov asked the subject if he could, would he tell the Soviets. The subject said, “Maybe.”

The subject said to Loginov that he would show Loginov the documents that backed up his answers to Loginov’s questions, but that he was busy through Christmas, but could possibly see him after Christmas and before New Year’s.

3. The C/O asked the subject if he had inquired of Loginov why the latter was asking such questions. The subject said he did not, even though he was completely puzzled by this tack on the part of the Soviets. But the subject felt perfectly at ease in telling the truth to the Soviets, and had no hesitation in showing them his documentation.

The C/O told the subject that we would discuss this matter further.

PRU

P-11712
