Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject is a hard-working, dedicated officer who has an unusual amount of drive. Subject is a distinct asset to the Station. In the period covered by this Fitness Report, Subject has worked in a persevering manner toward the goal of making the Station's PM operations responsive to the realities of a target area which moved in twelve months from a soft free world operational climate to a classical hard Soviet Blocaded area climate. Subject has had to accomplish his PM mission under the adverse circumstances of having to do a current job in response to strong pressures for immediate production while simultaneously cleaning up an operational backlog which was inherited from predecessor projects. Additionally, Subject had to project his PM plans into the future against a predictable operational climate in which only the most rigid application of sound PM techniques would enable the Station to continue operations against the target with either PM infiltration teams or commando raider units. Subject accomplished these multiple tasks despite the reluctance of the agent material from the target area to accept the rigid discipline and dedication which was required.

Subject was able to accomplish his PM mission by the use of sound operational concepts and principles, the delegation of authority, and the proper use of management techniques. Subject has an appreciation for intelligence and has harnessed his PM assets to provide valuable bread-and-butter-type coverage on the rural areas of the target.

See continuation sheet attached.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: /8/. Signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 12. Date: 28 June 1963. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station, JMWAVE. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Andrew K. REUTERMAN. Signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Subject is one of the “mainstays” of the WAVR Station. I concur in the evaluation of the supervisor. Date: 28 June 1963. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, SAS. Typed or printed name and signature: Bruce B. Cheever.
