May Program for the Congress:

1. Printing of a 4-page program, with a special 4-page French and English translated supplement.

2. Cover letter to all delegates who have accepted, enclosing the program; ask what discussions most interest them; what they would be prepared to give—a formal 20–30-minute paper or a shorter contribution. There will be both semi-formal and informal discussion, so that all would have a chance to participate. Mention the matter of the Europa-Union meeting (see von Trotha), other meetings (Civil Liberties Committees), university lectures, etc.

3. Problem of approaching “key men” to take over papers for the main discussion. Also, the problem of collecting as many papers as possible for printing, if they are not to be delivered at the Congress. Messages.

4. Check with M.J. about progress in getting an art exhibition of Berlin masters into town for June.

5. Ordering of books for (a) Taberna bookstalls, (b) special bookstore show-window exhibits during Congress week, and (c) special collections in British-French-American information centers. Should include original French, German, Italian, etc. editions, plus as many translations of Silone, Koestler, Burnham, et al. as can be obtained. Get Scandinavia through Copenhagen bookstore? Italian editions through Frankfurt International (Koch GmbH.). British volumes through Libris (this time not paid via Peter Hart). French through Frohnau or Maison-de-France. To be checked with Frau Marga Schneeller. Special problems of reduced rates to facilitate sales. Include books by Orwell (also Russian edition).

6. Ordering of photos of all relevant personalities: news- and art-style.

7. Kubicek to whip up, with books and photos, some special book shows for stores, windows, Taberna, etc.

8. Arrangement to have a “court photographer” at the Congress; weekly fee, plus expense payment for film costs. Also, a cartoonist for sketches.

9. Color banners with “Congress,” also French-English, for Titania, Tabernica, and Sporthalle.
