Through the exploitation of the LIEMPTY Principal Agent, Raymond H. GERENDE.

2. Agent Communications and Contact

During the period under review, GERENDE was seen 35 times in regular operational meetings by the undersigned, and on 2 occasions by the local KURIOT representative, Hugh T. FRANCOTTZ. The meetings between FRANCOTTZ and GERENDE were attended by the LIEMPTY Project Case Officer and dealt with the installation of a new PAKO print dryer in the LIEMPTY photo laboratory. In addition, GERENDE met four times, for extended periods, with LCFLUTTER examiner Daniel R. HOSKIER when he served as the interpreter for the LCFLUTTER examinations afforded LIEMPTYs, -6, -9, -14, -15, -26, and -27. No basic departures, other than the regular preplanned changes in meeting sites and times, were made in the regular and alternate communications channels to GERENDE. It should be noted that an up-dated and revised emergency communication system for contact with GERENDE was forwarded to Headquarters as HMMA-28333, dated 21 February 1966. This plan includes both verbal and physical bona fides and supercedes previous arrangements.

3. Accomplishments, Progress, Achievements

a) Summary — Throughout the reporting period, Project LIEMPTY continued to provide the vast majority of the operational photographs and physical surveillance reports used in Mexico City Station's operations against the LIMERICK installation and personnel. The LIEMPTY coverage has proved to be a most reliable tool for: following the daily movements of LIMERICK personnel; providing leads to, and confirming the identities of LIMERICK staffers and their visitors; verifying or providing leads to the relative rank and specific intelligence service connection of various LIMERICK officers; keeping the Station abreast of construction changes in the LIMERICK physical plants; providing a check on reports of Station and ODEVY access agents. During the three month period under review, Project LIEMPTY's basehouses provided 3,967 frames of operational photographs (146 rolls) as well as 650 pages of fixed surveillance reports covering this target.

b) LIENTRAP — Throughout this period, the LIENTRAP mobile unit was targeted against leaders and meeting-sites of the local Communist parties as well as other targets of opportunity, specifically the leaders of the strike group at the National University. LIENTRAP provided up-to-date photographs of numerous Communist officials, which are of value to both the JMTIGER program and the Station's recruitment/penetration program. This unit provided 330 operational photographs, while the personnel attached to this unit also regularly serviced 21 postal accommodation addresses used by Mexico City Station, Headquarters, and other field Stations.

c) LIMITED — During this period, the LIMITED basehouse provided 1,147 frames (45 rolls) of operational film and daily observation reports covering the arrival and departure of LIMERICK personnel and visitors at the front gate of that installation during the afternoon and rush-hours. In addition, LIEMPTY-6, the LIMITED basehouse keeper, served as the radio dispatcher for several LIEMBRACE surveillance operations.

d) LIMERIC — During this period, the LIMERIC basehouse provided 1,660 frames (56 rolls) of operational photographs, covering the same area and targets noted in the LIMITED section, but during the morning and early afternoon hours. In addition, the LIMERIC personnel prepared a detailed report on the daily comings and goings of each LIMERICK staffer and contributed the majority of this Project's physical surveillance reports.
