Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain reasons given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Member of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be written as applicable.

Subject has U.S. Station responsibility for Far Eastern operations. Since submission of the “Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report” at end of 1965, Subject has worked well into the local operational environment and is doing an excellent job of initiating exploitable contacts. A previously unproductive Station agent (WUALLOY/1) has improved his reporting and his access since Subject has taken him over and was the Station’s only agent at the Havana Tri-Continent Conference. Subject’s handling of a potential penetration operation against the Indonesian Embassy showed balanced judgment and a good appreciation of the CE and FI factors involved. His knowledge of Far Eastern politics, geography and contemporary history is encyclopedic and his handling of orientals in the USA confirms the high marks given him by FE supervisors in earlier reports. He has begun to use his cover in initiating new contacts within the diplomatic community as well as continuing to assess several WUENVOY candidates within the academic community. His handling of confidential funds is characterized by good judgment and prompt accountings. He has excellent working relations with his colleagues at the Station and in Headquarters.

No training is contemplated at this time beyond the Clandestine Services Review Course which Subject will take in March 1966.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 14 February 1966. Signature of employee: Jedediah P. Kondylis.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 6. By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 14 February 1966. Official title of supervisor: Chief, US/NOG. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert E. Boles.

Comments of reviewing official. By reviewing official.

Concur. An active, hard-working and well-motivated case officer.

Date: 14 February 1966. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station, U. S. Typed or printed name and signature: Harry A. Hositake.
