Election, Declination, or Waiver of Life Insurance Coverage — Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program.

Important agency instructions on back of original.

To complete this form:

1. Follow these general instructions:
- Read the back of the “Duplicate” carefully before you fill in the form.
- Fill in both copies of the form. Type or use ink.
- Do not detach any part.

2. Fill in the identifying information below (please print or type):

Name: Broe, William V. Date of birth: August 24, 1913. Social Security number: 032 01 8164. Employing department or agency: 056735. Location: City, State, ZIP Code.

3. Mark an “X” in one of the boxes below (do not mark more than one).

(A) Election of optional (in addition to regular) insurance. I elect the $10,000 additional optional insurance and authorize the required deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to pay the full cost of the optional insurance. This optional insurance is in addition to my regular insurance.

(B) Declaration of optional (but not regular) insurance. I decline the $10,000 additional optional insurance. I understand that I cannot elect optional insurance until at least 1 year after the effective date of this declination and unless at the time I apply for it I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability. I understand also that my regular insurance is not affected by this declination of additional optional insurance.

(C) Waiver of life insurance coverage. I declare that I am insured only on those coverages under which Federal Employees’ Compensation Insurance, if any, under which I am covered, is in force until at least 1 year after the effective date of this waiver and that if I do not elect the option to continue my insurance, I will apply for insurance if I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability. I understand also that I cannot now or later have the $10,000 additional optional insurance unless I have the regular insurance.

4. Sign and date. If you marked box “A” or “C,” complete the “Statistical Stub.” Then return the entire form to your employing office.

Signature (do not sign). Date.

For employing office use only. Official receiving date stamp.

See Table of Effective Dates on back of original.

Original copy — retain in official personnel folder.

January 1965. For use only until April 14, 1965.
