Fitness Report.

Employee serial number: 512170.

Section A. General.

Name: Randall, Frederick C. Date of birth: 30 October 1926. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13. Service designation: DI. Official position title: J. O. (FI), Alvin G. Off. Ch. Career staff status: Not eligible; member; deferred; initial reassignment/supervisor pending; declined; denied; annual reassignment/employer. Type of report. Date report due in O.P.: 31/01/59. Reporting period: From 06/58–31/12/58. To: Special (specify).

Section B. Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number that best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

1 — Unsatisfactory. 2 — Barely adequate. 3 — Acceptable. 4 — Competent. 5 — Excellent. 6 — Superior. 7 — Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Responsibility for supervision of the 15 members of the Indonesian Desk. These individuals range in grade from GS-5 through GS-13. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 2: Responsibility for the operation of the Indonesian Country Desk. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 3: Continually assessing Indonesian field station activities and providing guidance and support where needed. Rating No. 6.

Specific duty No. 4: Responsibility for the continual evaluation of the Indonesian political-military-economic scene. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 5: Supervising on-the-job training of personnel scheduled to be assigned to Indonesian field stations. Rating No. 5.

Specific duty No. 6: Preparation of special reports and briefing papers for high Agency officials and for the OCS working group. Rating No. 4.

Section C. Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1 — Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. 2 — Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects. 3 — Performance clearly meets basic requirements. 4 — Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements. 5 — Performance in every important respect is superior. 6 — Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Section D. Description of the Employee.
