Very dear “Eduardo,”

We were starting to ask ourselves if you were still on this planet or on the moon.

Since your little word, sent right after your departure, we were without news. I had never received any from your first letter and was a little mad at you because Loulou told me that Atchico (Athico) had news from you and that you were in South America. I do not know completely if Nathela has received your letter, but I will write to her. I also do not know where the other people live, and I will be glad if you can give them your address. Already 10 months since you are gone. The time passes with incredible speed. Besides Nina’s marriage, which went very well, nothing interesting.

Nina and Bernard have found an apartment very close to our house, Boulevard Auguste Blanqui, corner of rue de la Santé, the building which is standing behind the gas station. You see?

TIFI and Annick are still with us but wish to find some place to go.

Yesterday evening the whole family was together, plus Loulou and Magy, to celebrate my 45th birthday, and just this morning a letter from you. It was lucky your letter was still in one piece when I screamed, “A letter from you!”

You can be sure to receive news from the whole family, and we thank you for your love for us.

My august husband had caught double pneumonia again, and that will keep him until September; therefore that plunges us into difficulties up to our necks. You may imagine with what happiness I read your letter. You are certainly the only one to be like that in our world. God bless you, and He must take account of the remission of your offences. Alleluia!

I stopped this letter yesterday evening. Cécile (Cdile) and Magy were here; we had dinner together and went to the movie. James Stewart (Steward) was starring.

What to say next, you know our life. Nothing has changed. I am waiting impatiently for another letter from you to tell us what you are doing. It would be so nice if you could be here for the end of the year. Until then, I kiss you lovingly.

COCO

Paris, 24 March

Dear Old,

I hope you have received my letter. Since then, a sensational event happened: born March 14th, a fourth daughter for Atchico, named Sophie. As you asked me, I sent him your address—and my congratulations.

Momentarily...

Yesterday Loulou stopped by for a few minutes to tell us that her father is doing very badly and that it could be lung cancer. We are hoping it is not.

Little Manana, Ramaz’s cousin, gave birth to a beautiful baby boy. His name is Christophe. Those are the latest news.

This is Nina’s address:

Madame Monestier  
159 Bd. Auguste Blanqui, Paris 13

Nelly has been working as a saleslady since Monday in a very expensive linen-cloth shop on the corner of rue Miromesnil and St. Honoré.

I am writing in the kitchen because the heating is off, and today, after a few sunny days, it is cold and rainy.

What crime have I committed to live such a life?

Send us a letter and tell us what you are doing. Your first letter never arrived.

I am waiting impatiently for news from you, and until then,

I kiss you lovingly.

COCO
