Source: D.W. Date: S-4-32.

Editor of China Paper in Danger

Threat to Turn Isaacs Over to Nanking

Shanghai, Aug. 2.—The Wall Street government, supporting its Nanking butcher agents, has threatened to turn over Harold R. Isaacs, American editor of the “China Forum,” to the Nanking hangmen.

As editor of the “China Forum,” Isaacs has committed the crime against Imperialism of supporting the Chinese Revolution and ruthlessly exposing the mass murder of revolutionary Chinese workers and peasants by the Nanking regime and the United States and other Imperialist brigands. He has exposed the shameful sell-out of the Chinese masses by the Nanking traitors to the Japanese, American and other imperialists.

The United States government has warned Isaacs that it will withdraw the protection of extra-territorial rights unless the “China Forum” changes its editorial and news policies. Under the extra-territoriality treaties imposed upon China by the imperialists, American and other citizens of the imperialist powers may not be tried in the Chinese courts. Because Isaacs is an American citizen the Nanking government has not been able to wreak its vengeance on him for his exposure of their bloody terror and betrayal of the Chinese masses. The Wall Street Government, which protects its business agents in looting China now proposes to throw Isaacs to its Nanking lackeys for trial in the Chinese courts on charges carrying life imprisonment or the death penalty.

Isaacs has categorically refused to concede to the demands of the United States government that he change the policies of the “China Forum.” He is closely associated in the anti-imperialist, anti-Kuomintang fight with Madame Sun Yat-sen, who is chairman of the committee leading the fight to save Paul and Gertrude Ruegg from a death sentence in the Chinese courts.

American workers and intellectuals and their organizations should at once send vigorous protest to the State Department at Washington at its attempt to send Isaacs to death in the Nanking Courts.
