Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 034790.

Section A: General.

Name: Bagley, Tennent H. Date of birth: 11 Nov. 1925. Service designation: FI. Official position title: Area Ops Officer. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. Type of report: Initial annual reassignment/supervisor reassignment/employee. Not eligible: member pending, deferred, denied. Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1959. Reporting period: Start 3/10/58–3/31/59. Special: specify.

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1 – Unsatisfactory. 2 – Barely adequate. 3 – Acceptable.

Specific duty No. 1: Target Research (Soviet, Polish). Rating No.: 6. Specific duty No. 2: Case Officer (Soviet, Polish). Rating No.: 6.

Section C: Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects falls to meet requirements. 2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects. 3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements. 4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements. 5. Performance in every important respect is superior. 6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Rating No.: 5.

Section D: Description of the Employee.

In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee.

1 – Least possible degree. 2 – Limited degree. 3 – Normal degree. 4 – Above average degree. 5 – Outstanding degree.
