5. Kulazhenkov, Cherkasov, and Popov and their wives were invited to attend a reception on Friday, 29 September at the Lebanese legation in honor of the Lebanese Ambassador to Washington, D.C., who was passing through Mexico. The Soviet Chargé d’Affaires also accepted an invitation for dinner at the Lebanese legation on 29 September at 8:00 p.m.

6. On 19 September Rouamo made arrangements to call on Dr. Guillermo de Assa (ph) of the Cultural Committee of the Organization of American States, who had recently been home to Argentina. Rouamo mentioned that he had also spent three months away from Mexico on vacation in the Soviet Union.

7. Felice Steen (ph) of the British Embassy contacted Cherkasov on 19 September concerning plans for a luncheon and some table tennis games on Saturday, 22 September at 1:00 p.m. Since she could only seat ten persons and there would be five from the British Embassy, she would like to invite five of the Soviets. They decided on the Ambassador, Cherkasov, Akhaelov and his wife, and Glottov and his wife. However, since that added up to too many guests, Cherkasov agreed to let her know exactly the following day, and added that since he played table tennis badly, he would serve as referee.

8. On 21 September J. K. Ganju of the Indian Embassy congratulated Kazantsev on his promotion (see section on Personnel) and asked about the chart which the Soviet geologist delegates had distributed at the cocktail party at the Embassy. Part of the chart received by the Indians was missing and they would like another copy. Kazantsev said that all but six or eight of the delegates had returned and the rest were visiting in Yucatan. He would try to get another copy, but if he could not, he was sure the Indian delegates could get it through the Soviet delegate at New Delhi.

9. Olavi K. Murto, Chargé d’Affaires of the Finnish legation, and his wife accepted an invitation to a reception at the Soviet Embassy on 27 September.

III. Cultural and Propaganda Activities

A. Relations with Cultural Institutes

1. Instituto Mexicano Bellas Artes

a. On 12 September Luis Sanchez Arriola of Bellas Artes invited Vladimir K. Nastyukovich, Second Secretary, and Boris P.
