Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him about his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item 8 of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name: Last, First, Middle. Date of birth: 2 November 1965. SSN: M. Service designation: OD.

Office/Division/Branch of assignment: Foreign Documents Officer. CO/FDD/USSR Branch.

Grade. Dated report due in. Type of report: GS-9. Initial or annual: X Annual. Permitting supervisor: 21 November 1956–20 November 1957. Special: X Annual.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report X was X was not shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

A. Check (X) appropriate statements:

X This report reflects my opinions of this inclusive.

If individual is needed in C. or D., a warning letter may be sent to the copy attached to this report.

This report reflects the combined opinions of all my previous supervisors.

I cannot certify that the rated individual now evaluates his performance according (Specify):

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands.

B. This date.

C. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor.

Supervisor’s official title.

For the reviewing official, record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

Posted Pos. Control GM NOV 15 Nov 57. Reviewed by DMJ Pelt 11/19/57.

Continued on attached sheet.
