His hate. Subject asked F if it was possible to get those hats for him. F said he did not know if it could be done.

7. Subject asked F what type of reception would be given on the 4th of July by the Embassy and whether there was something arranged that any American could drop in, such as signing the book at the Embassy. F promised to prove to Subject in case there was something like that.

8. After covering the ground contained in the three attachments, F asked Subject if he was willing to back his statements with a polygraph test (I used the expression “lie detector test”). Subject reacted by asking when we wanted him to take the test. F commented that he did not say that Subject would be given one; he only asked whether he would be willing to take one if we asked him to do it. Subject stated that he was willing to take the test at any time. Then he started asking questions about the test, especially who usually gets it and how it works. With regard to who gets it, F stated that anyone involved in matters having a bearing on the security of the U.S. could get it. As to how it works, there is nothing to it: it registers when a person tells a lie, as the stomach automatically digests anything a person eats.

9. Comments by SUPERNAID:

a. This meeting enables us to have a better insight into Subject’s personality.

b. There are valid indications that Subject is not withholding important information concerning his personal history or his activity.

c. His claim to have numerous and extensive influential contacts appears to be acceptable.

d. He also appears to be cooperative, but has a tendency to deviate from the instructions given to him concerning his attitude toward LOGIC. It is possible that this is due to his conviction that he knows LOG better than we do and that we are too dogmatic and not flexible enough. At the same time, this may be due to the fact that he loves clandestine activity for the sake of the pleasure he gets out of the game. On one hand, he might fear that our proposed course of action may eliminate LOG from him, in which case he would be left without a game he likes.

e. It appears quite obvious that Subject’s financial condition is not rosy, but apparently he has a greater [unclear], it will drop dead and does not have to worry about being hungry. Therefore, there is enough room for him to lead the life he pleases.

SUPERNAID
