13. Charles Stier, a hotel manager at the earlier evening, said he had called on a customer named Al Bixler at a restaurant in New York City to let him know whether his father was still alive. He arrived and found him and a woman who looked like his mother, living together. The woman was a passenger on board a bus which had been stuck in traffic for three hours. She asked what had happened, but the driver refused to tell her. After about an hour and a half, when the car became almost empty, the woman got out of the bus and began talking with some men who were there. She told them that her son was a prisoner in a concentration camp in Germany and asked if she could get him out of the country. They agreed to take care of the man while he was in the United States. He was taken to the airport and put on a plane. When the plane arrived in New York, the woman called the police, who came and took the man away. When he arrived in Washington, they took him to the White House where President Franklin D. Roosevelt received him.

There were no further developments on this case during that week. An inquiry from Silverstein on 15 October (which is a week after the meeting) led to a call to Sternberg on that day. Sternberg had not heard of any such offer, and felt confident that it had not been intended to subject. He then commented on the second article concerning the subject written by Peter Kings of the New York Times. Since the late city edition carried a longer version when the city edition (which is ordinarily sold in Washington), we are forwarding a clipping of this article (which appeared in the 11 October issue of the New York Times). Sternberg told us that the subject's Crashwire friends, Danes and Vealely, were responsible for the article. They had phoned the Czechoslovak U. N. Mission and asked to speak to the subject. They had phoned the various airlines at Dulles and established the departure via Air France. Finally, they had talked to Kings about CIA involvement. All that U. N. then could do was to issue the statement which was reprinted in

14. Sternberg used this occasion to stress his own steps for us. On 8 and 9 October, he had seen Mr. Van der Heijden, who was then in Washington. He had talked to Mr. Oto at the Central Office, INIS, twice on the morning of 9 October.
