15 June 1964

Contact Report

Subject: Recontact of Oliverio A. TOMEU (TOMEI) Yarallo (201-283206)

1. At 1730 hours, 6 June 64, the undersigned was advised at his residence that a Mr. TOMEU (Subject) had called the security number given him (351-6161) and left the message that he would like to talk again with Paul Stroud (the undersigned) anytime after 1800 hours, 6 June.

2. Upon arriving at TOMEU's apartment (Apt. 303, 1028 Wahler Place &B, High Point Apartment House, Washington, D.C.), 1830 hours, 6 June, TOMEU indicated to his two daughters he would like to have some privacy and they and his wife, Caridad, left the apartment.

3. TOMEU apologized for not having recalled the name “de VARONA” as that of Ann Gloria de VARONA. He reiterated that, while in hiding to escape capture by the Cuban Government subsequent to his infiltration, he knew only the first names of the persons with whom he came in contact, but then added he knew Ann Gloria de VARONA, in whose house he was hiding, because she was the sister of Carlos de VARONA, one of his infiltration team members. This Carlos de VARONA may be identical with one Carlos Manuel de VARONA Segura, 201-289955; or one Carlos Arturo VARONA Arjona, 201-283209.

4. On several occasions, according to TOMEU, he was seated at the table in Ann's house with several other people. One of these individuals, known to TOMEU only as “COCO,” was described as the secretary to Jose LLANUZA Gobel. There was not, however, any discussions in which TOMEU recalls LLANUZA or his political sympathies having been discussed. According to TOMEU's recollection it was “COCO” who was associated with LLANUZA, and he was not aware of any relationship between Ann and LLANUZA. Although TOMEU had no information as to what finally happened to Carlos de VARONA, his infiltration team mate, he suggested that if Carlos or Ann were available they may be able to identify “COCO” and provide data on his accessibility for contact.

5. One Gabriel GONZALEZ, former Chief of the Havana Fire Department, was identified by TOMEU as another possible lead.
