Disadvantageous for him to exaggerate in order to mix the treks and confuse the German authorities, this gave him a chance not to mention certain partners whom he made it appear as negligible. He continued this game until he saw that the end was near. For example, there was a great need of gas in Germany and he figured he could gain time by telling the Germans he had invented a very interesting motor which they could profitably use. The Germans took his offer into consideration and postponed his execution. Shortly thereafter he was liberated by the Americans.

34. This vignette indicates that Subject has the developed capacity of a con man and that he is capable of imaginatively talking himself out of rather tight situations. This, of course, is an outstanding qualification as regards the requirements of the project.

35. Subject attacked a bank in 1950. At the time he was married and was the father of one child. He was working in a model maker's shop and although he was not well off, he was earning a decent living. However, because of his love for risk and out of friendship for another fellow, he agreed to participate in the bank attack. Apparently the other fellow trusted Subject because he knew of Subject's war activities and he figured that because Subject had been able to accomplish certain illegal activities that he was quite capable of attacking a bank. The attack was carefully planned. Because there were only two on the team they were compelled in view of the smallness of his staff to give extra attention to their plan.

36. According to Subject he was close to this young friend who solicited his financial assistance. At first, Subject felt that the other fellow was crazy to dare to attack a bank. He also had the normal twinge of conscience and asked himself the question, "Is it right to do harm by robbing a bank?" Subject never felt that the two alone would be able to attack the bank successfully. Consequently, they determined to knock over a jewelry shop first. At each point in the developments Subject wanted to withdraw from the whole deal by saying, "If my mother learned of this, she would die." They postponed the job indefinitely. However, his mother died in the meantime and his friend again approached him and told him that now that his mother was dead, there was no longer such a danger. Subsequently they knocked over the jewelry store.
