Low NPD vote. A postelection poll of 1967 voters in Bremen showed that, unlike the Hitler movement, the National Democrats do not yet attract many women and youth. More than two thirds of the voters for the party were males, and the strongest participation was in the 45 to 60 age bracket.

FDP Gains and Losses

The FDP profited from its position in the opposition. Ralf Dahrendorf, a sociologist from the University of Konstanz with an international reputation, has recently entered the party and has assumed a leading role, influencing the FDP in a leftward direction and attracting left-liberal support. In the Stuttgart district where he was a candidate, the party vote rose by 6 percent. On the other hand, the new pattern is not acceptable to many old members of this traditionally business-oriented party, who look askance at Dahrendorf's readiness to debate and discuss with Rudi Dutschke and other radical students. Two of the three districts with heaviest NPD gains also showed heavy FDP losses, as did some other former FDP areas of strength.

Perspectives on the Vote

The overall picture appears to be that while both the Christian Democrats and the Free Democrats lost to the NPD, they gained at the expense of the Socialists. The Socialists suffered from apathy and incurred some loss to both the NPD and Democratic Left. The NPD probably garnered some new and uncommitted votes. It is fortunate for the SPD leaders in Bonn that the annual party congress came before the Baden-Wuerttemberg election. It is hardly likely that the congress would now defeat a motion withholding endorsement of the coalition, as it did by a four-vote margin in March. Assuming the SPD remains faithful to the Bonn coalition now, the prospects are for further erosion of its strength and for greater difficulties within its ranks.

Meanwhile, the NPD probably will continue to grow in influence. It now is probably stronger in some other areas than in Baden-Wuerttemberg. A change from proportional representation to single-member constituencies, which might have

Baden-Wuerttemberg  
Mannheim  
Heidelberg  
Heilbronn  
Karlsruhe  
Pforzheim  
Freudenstadt  
Stuttgart  
Esslingen  
Tübingen (Tubingen)  
Ulm  
Freiburg  
Tiengen  
Constance (Constant)
