The above, the Station made an effort to explore the possibility of using a contact which LIRELIC-1 had with a PBRUMEN citizen in Acapulco to gain another window into LIRING. This PBRUMEN citizen owns a small hotel in the Mexican resort occasionally visited by LIRING personnel. Although LIRELIC-1 himself once delivered a package sent by his Acapulco friend and managed to have one or two meetings with representatives of the LIRING Commercial Section (to discuss the possibility of “trading” with PBRUMEN), it was decided in the end that LIRELIC-1's access to LIRING was too superficial to be of any great benefit. This decision was bolstered by the departure for PBRUMEN in April 1968 of LIRELIC-1's PBRUMEN friend, who left for what appears to be an extended visit to try to solve complicated personal problems. Thus, with the “shelving” of possible operational activities against LIRING, LIOGLE became LIRELIC-1's only target in April of this year.

5. Unlike his contacts with the French, LIREALM-1's dealings with LIRELIC-1 have been completely clandestine. LIREALM-1 meets LIRELIC-1 under alias in out-of-the-way restaurants and other public places. A drop constituted by a P.O. box rented by LIRELIC-1 under alias (to which both he and LIREALM-1 have keys) was set up for LIREALM-1 to receive operational messages.

6. References D and E reviewed an incident which occurred on 16 January and had a direct bearing on LIREALM-1's security. It is the opinion of this Station that the person who saw LIREALM-1 talk with Raymond A. FRADYER and Wallace B. ROWTON did not positively identify either of them. References stated that this person could not have been Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINOV, who claimed to have observed the meeting. Reference E pointed out that before joining the PBRUMEN Section in October 1967 LIREALM-1 had for some time interested himself in the activities of the Soviets at Station request. He first made contact with LOGINOV, for example, in April 1967 and met with him on the average of once a week until October 1967. Reference E also pointed out that LIREALM-1 only had four meetings with the Soviet from October 1967 to January 1968. The Station wants to emphasize once more that these were all at LOGINOV's initiative. LIREALM-1 had discontinued his efforts to maintain contact with the Soviet at Station's directive. As pointed out above, one of the main targets now handled by LIREALM-1 is the French. One of the best places to meet Frenchmen is the French Club. Station would be very reluctant to have LIREALM-1, a long-time member of that club, terminate his membership. Neither does the Station want him to be too obvious in giving the cold shoulder to the Soviet. The Station does not believe, knowing what it knows of LOGINOV, that serious and permanent damage has been done to LIREALM-1's security and believes that he can continue to provide valuable services to this Station.

For Willard C. CURTIS

Secretary's note:
