I told Mr. Hiro that I was anxious to work out some manner of linking these groups with Dr. Hiro and the Council, without having to channel direction and funds through Dr. Hiro, since these groups are now functioning well under existing arrangements.

Dr. Hiro said he would be pleased to meet with them outside of the Council, and they say continue to function as collateral organizations independently; but that they realize that they have one direction. Dr. Hiro added that like the independent magistrates with their attitude—they are injuring the Council.

Dr. Hiro commented that he wanted the magistrates to have an election and select their leader according to the results of a vote. He reiterated that all the collateral organizations must operate within the orbit of the Council; and that he would be glad to discuss with them their opinions just as he as a professor had done with students—often times resulting in excellent ideas and viewpoints.

Then I questioned that I had read in one of our magazines a laudatory item describing his demonstrated capabilities as a mediator between political groups and individuals.

Dr. Hiro again returned to his belief that funds of all organizations should funnel through the Council because every Cuban has a sense of self that includes him to go where he knows the money is dispensed; that this is sad but true; and that those who are still outside and hope to get direct support, they know that the money was here (in his hands), would come running without urging. He then said that he had seven hundred dollars, more or less, for each organization's operating expenses. He concluded by saying that he didn't wish to operate without us (Agency) or without any of the Agency people, but merely desired to pull together the diverse groups and other activities.

He then referred to his conversations with Mr. Berle and General Taylor, and his view expressed to them that in the April affair he felt that the Agency had functioned more or less effectively—sorely their people had been "rough," or "tough," but that he had no complaint; that the lack of air cover no doubt caused defeat. When he had been queried (querried) by reporters and other on specific questions designed to pry secrets out of him, he had replied, "I didn't see them," or similar evasions, and thus had endeavored to be loyal to us.

He said his son had been certain that his father would be with the expeditionary force, and, en route (in route) to the Bay of Pigs from Guatemala, the son had searched for him on the boats, and was disillusioned because his father wasn't there.
