Section D: Narrative Comments. Indicate strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Complete foreign language competence, if required for current assignment. Include ratings given in Section C to prove the manner of performance of management is satisfactory. Duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

LA/COG is both a Headquarters and a Desk Officer and an active operational “station” operating out of Headquarters, responsible for recruitment operations and agent handling. As such, Mr. Flores’ assignment is a combination of Headquarters desk chief and case officer of a large field station. His performance is being rated in both capacities, which means that much higher criteria is being applied than for most Headquarters officers.

Mr. Flores has proved to be a professional agent handler, and has been used very effectively in two new, sensitive operations run from Headquarters. Although he did not participate in the recruitment of these sources, Mr. Flores was brought in to provide initial training and detailed guidance necessary to develop the new assets into reporting sources. One was a complicated case of a DGI walk-in whom Mr. Flores helped debrief, then trained and dispatched back to Cuba. The other was a successful false flag recruitment of a source with excellent access to the Cuban leadership; Mr. Flores’ job, after being introduced by the recruiting officer, is to make the source into a fully controlled asset and maximize the excellent potential for intelligence information.

Certification and Comments. Date: 8 August 1975. Official title of supervisor: ADC/LA/COG. Typed or printed name and signature: M. Michael Kline.

Statement Concerning This Evaluation of My Performance. Date: 9 August 1975. Bill of Lines.

Comments of Reviewing Official: LA/COG has six operations officers performing duties similar to those assigned to Mr. Flores—case officer responsible for recruiting/handling agents directed against a hard target and also staff duties as a Desk Chief. These tasks are unique within the Latin America Division as these officers serve as field case officers and also as Headquarters desk officers. All on-island Cuban agents are handled by these six employees. I would rank Mr. Flores in the middle of this group, but it must be taken into consideration that all the other officers are senior in grade.

Date: 8 August 1975. Official title of reviewing official: AC/LA/COG. Typed or printed name and signature: Thomas G. Clines.
