6. Profession: Electro-technician, an equivalent of German “Ingenieur without diploma” (not a college graduate).

A. Last occupation: Chief electrician (starshiy elekto-tekhnik) with MIKHA-TSKHAKAYA RTS.

7. Last residence: Shota Rustaveli Street (ulitsa), No. 25 (private home of my common-law wife, Nina Candel[i] (CANDELI)) in MIKHA-TSKHAKAYA, Kutaisi Oblast, Georgian SSR.

8. Marital status: Single. From 1946 to the time of my escape I lived in a common-law marriage with Nina Candeli (CANDELI), née Taktashvili, born 1920. When I first got to know her, she was married to a post-office employee, but her marriage was an unhappy one. Her husband was much older and the marriage had been arranged by her parents, old-fashioned farmers from a distant village who were happy to marry their daughter off to a relatively educated and well-to-do man. By the time I was drafted into the service, Nina and I were lovers. When I returned from the war, I moved in with her, for her husband had been killed in action during World War II and she lived, with her daughter born during this time, in a small home inherited from her husband. Her parents were dead, and she worked as a mail carrier, for she had very little education. During the later years of our life together, I discovered that Nina was having affairs with other men. This caused frequent quarrels at home and made my life unbearable. Finally, the woman became pregnant, and since I was positive that it was not my child, I decided to end our relationship. This was one of the reasons for my defection. I have no children of my own.

9. Parents:

A. Father: Frank Sanders, born circa 1885 in the Baltic area, came to Russia proper circa 1910 and worked as a civil engineer in the Baku, Batumi, and Tbilisi areas. In 1918, he married my mother in Tbilisi. He died in 1924 in an accident at his place of work. I do not remember my father at all, but knew from my mother that he was a very good and kind man and was well liked.

B. Mother: Maria Sanders, née Kantcheli, born circa 1885 in a small village near the Azerbaijani (Azerbaydžanian) border in Tbilisi Oblast. She was an only child, and when her parents died of old age, within a few years of each other, she moved to Tbilisi and worked as a clerk in various private enterprises until she married my father. After her husband
