Personnel Evaluation Report. Items 1 through 10 will be completed by Administrative or Personnel Officer.

Name: CHRIST, David L. Grade: GS-13. Position title: Physical Science Admin. Office, Departmental or Field: DD/P, TSS. Branch: Applied Physics Div. Departmental.

Period covered by report: From 3-16-52 to 3-16-53. Type of report: Annual.

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Omit minor duties.

Assistant Chief, Applied Physics Division/TSS—combined administrator and project engineer. As administrator: Assist and act for the chief in general administrative details—personnel, budget, security, contractual arrangements, etc.; assist in organizing procedures and administrative mechanisms for accomplishing aims of technical projects. As project engineer: Examine operational problems, suggesting devices and techniques for implementing the operations; recommend and organize projects to provide devices and techniques; supervise and/or prepare original designs, drawings, specifications and instructions; supervise work and progress of younger project engineers; conduct technical liaison with government and commercial R&D activities; prepare and conduct field and laboratory tests and reports, and periodic status and progress reports; serve as technical consultant on APD activities to CIA operational groups.

List courses of instruction completed during report period. None.

The technical examination and evaluation of operations as regards applicable devices and techniques, and the subsequent organization, direction, and close association with research and development projects in the broad field of Applied Physics. It is, I believe, a work fundamental to clandestine agency operations, in which a person can grow to high levels of achievement and responsibility.

In what type of work are you primarily interested?

If different from your present job, explain your qualifications (aptitude, knowledge, skills).

The above statement describes in broad terms what I am, and have been doing with the agency since 1950. My individual function has grown with expanding agency requirements and organization. I was originally accepted for this position on the basis of previous knowledge and experience. I believe I have demonstrated the ability to continue to grow in and with the organization.

16 March 1953. Date.

David F. Christ. Signature.

Items 11 through 10 will be completed by Supervisor.

Briefly describe this person's performance on the major duties listed under Item 7 above.

Mr. Christ has been exceptionally cooperative and dependable and he has exhibited leadership and good judgement in the administration of his duties. He has consistently been effective in handling unusually sensitive liaison problems and in offering guidance to the young project engineers of the Applied Physics Division.
