Is he solvent? Yes. But his wife works as a schoolteacher. They have a car. They pay low rent. Building of very mixed occupancy.

His father and mother had a flat in this building. The father and mother were decorators. Has office on upper ground floor and press on lower ground floor.

His father dead. His mother remarried. Still a decorator.

Don't know just when A started this business. He began in decorating business—paper hanging, etc. Then got into poetry, and had a little magazine.

He had some money and bought the distributorship of these publications.

From that he went into publishing.

October—and group around him, established in 1964, summer, after fiasco of the Swiss Communist Party. Extremely small group. I doubt if they have more than 30 people.

PIT.

Operate mainly inside of the official Communist Party—Workers' Party.

Aim to convince the people inside of the rightness of Chinese thinking and provide a rallying point for those expelled from the party. Print in Italian, French, and German.

Swiss C.P. has all 515 people.

I estimate 30 to 40 people involved. Very weak organization.

It might be discreetly financed by the Chinese, through a little money handed over to Anderson.

A is obviously no longer really the center of it. He was the initiator.

The fact that he is not Swiss may have helped. I feel he was gradually pulling back from political involvement. As under close surveillance by the Swiss police—has been warned what he can and cannot do.

People even went up to Berne and asked for his expulsion. They got very little satisfaction.

There still are numbers of Spaniards who come in—he has Chinese and Albanian literature in Spanish.

Once they get out of Spain and can get this stuff, they do go and look at it. NOE no longer exists—has run out of new Spanish C.P.

They are just workers. Mundo Obrero Revolucionario produced on offset or nursegraph, principally by Feder (phon) Tagliacozze.

Catalan. The two leaders are part of it.

Three groups: Proletario, Chiapa group is third. That has two people according to Sanchez. The leaders of the other two groups were expelled from this Lenin-Stalin party.

Don't think he still has distribution of October officially. Piquini printed it in October.

That's political. This ban derived from the Revolution incident.

We could stay in Switzerland if we wanted to, but had to get out of all political activity.

Still from outside and the Chinese Embassy.

Don't know where A still acts as a contact. I feel that he is much less active than he was. He was not well informed about Italian group, Nuovo Partito.
