December 1959

WORKING EXPERIENCE:

U.S.A., 1948–1954:

Gas Refrigerating Co., New Orleans, La. — Sales Counselor.

Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, Tulane School of Medicine, New Orleans, La. — Research Technician.

Middle America Research Institute, Tulane University, New Orleans, La. — Assistant Librarian.

Touro Infirmary, New Orleans, La. — Medical Technician.

Berlitz School of Languages, New Orleans, La. — Professor.

Tulane University, Spanish Department, New Orleans, La. — Teaching Fellow.

Most of the above positions were held principally for the purpose of providing additional income while doing graduate work at Tulane University.

HAVANA, CUBA, 1954–1960. Branch sales office for the following:

Appleton Electric Co., Chicago, Ill. — Assistant District Manager.

Arrow-Hart & Hegeman Electric Co., Hartford, Conn. — Assistant District Manager.

Century Electric Co., St. Louis, Mo. — Assistant District Manager.

Hubbard and Company, Chicago, Ill. — Assistant District Manager.

Hubbard Aluminum Products Co., Pittsburgh, Penn. — Assistant District Manager.

The Okonite Company, Passaic, N.J. — Assistant District Manager.

This is a combined Havana District Sales Office handling the individual business of each of the above companies in this territory, and representing their interests in Cuba.

PRESENT POSITION AND DUTIES:

Since April 1954 I have been working as Assistant District Manager of the Havana District Sales Office for the above-described companies. In this capacity I have been directly responsible for all business operations of these companies throughout the territory of Cuba. It has been my duty to promote the sale in Cuba of all items manufactured by said companies; organize representation in the main cities; appoint distributors; assist in collection of accounts when necessary; direct the servicing of their products in case of operating difficulties; supervise the handling of all of their export-import shipments; study the market conditions and trends, analyze competitive situations and advise the factories accordingly; cooperate with and advise local distributors in their sales promotion programs and assist with important accounts and contracts; counsel management in sales policy and procedures in this territory; and protect in every way possible the interests in Cuba of the above-mentioned American manufacturers.

RESUME:

Due to the economic and political situation prevailing in Cuba, and present restrictions on imported goods, I am considering the advisability of making a change whereby I can improve my present standing and future potentialities in accordance with my educational qualifications and proven experiences. I am only interested in working directly for an American company, either at home or abroad, with a starting base salary of about $12,000 a year.
