Debriefer: 19 April 1967. Report: 20 April 1967.

Continued.

Subject: Lizarro Guzardo HERNANDEZ Perez. DCC: 17 December 1957, Argentina, Pinar del Rio Province. Allen Registration 8A17-405-510.

9. HERNANDEZ claims that he never belonged to any GOC organization.

10. In April 1951, during the Bay of Pigs Invasion, HERNANDEZ was detained for 11 days at Principe prison in Havana, for not being pro-GOC. On 18 September 1952, HERNANDEZ and seven others were caught when they stole an IHT boat and attempted to escape from Ocoa by Sanako beach, Guanabacoa, Havana. This time, HERNANDEZ was detained, together with his companions, for a month and a half at DSE offices, Quinta corner of Cateierte Street, Miramar. They were then released after being given a lecture that the Revolution was sending them free because it was a general revolution. Debriefer's note: By that time the GOC was not sentencing to prison persons who were caught escaping. During 1954, HERNANDEZ was detained for four days after his first fight with a CDR member in his neighborhood. This time, HERNANDEZ was aided in getting out of jail by his sister, Andrea HERNANDEZ Perez, who is pro-GOC. In early 1955, HERNANDEZ was detained for two days, accused of playing dominoes for betting.

11. HERNANDEZ's sister, Andrea HERNANDEZ Perez (DPOB: circa 1955, Argentina, Pinar del Rio Province), is a CDR member and GOC transmitter. She works at “Salud Pública,” with offices at 17th Street, rearranged, between 2nd and 4th Streets, Vedado, employed as an office clerk. During March 1957, she was punished by being assigned to work for “Flota de Bayas” at the Havana docks, packing fish, when she refused to do voluntary work. During 1959, she was married to (Fno) CANCIO (mat. univ.) (DPOB: circa 1927, Havana, Havana Province), who is employed as Director of Physical Fitness at Havana University and who is an attached GOC supporter and a militant. Andrea and her husband reside at Calle San Miguel (No. univ.), corner of Marques Consolero, Havana City.

12. HERNANDEZ provided the following information of CI interest:

a) Rosario POBADA Carriles, DSE agent, supervisor for “Area Norte,” which includes all Havana City, of the Telephone Company, and employed at “Area Especial” (Special Area) of the Telephone Company. Attachment 1.

b) Pedro BIERU (mat. univ.), DSE agent, Chief of Installations and Maintenance of “Area Norte” of the Telephone Company and employed at “Area Especial” of the Telephone Company. CP member. Attachment 2.

c) Jose (mat. univ.) Akar, “Pepe,” DSE and CP member and installer and repairman for “Area Especial” of the Telephone Company. Attachment 3.

d) Manel BELTRAN (mat. univ.), DSE and CP member and installer and repairman for “Area Especial” of the Telephone Company. Attachment 4.

e) Central Information of CI Interest. Attachment 5.
