Memorandum of Oral Commitment

To: Chief, WH Division  
From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE  
Subject: Engagement of IDENTITY A, 201-307337

1. Term and Project Charge: The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under REDTOP. The effective date of the oral contract is 15 April 1968, and it shall continue until completion of the operational assignment.

2. Security Approval: The appropriate security approval to utilize the subject as requested has been obtained. Request to reinstate OA, JMWAVE 1802, 26 March 1968. DIRECTOR 86830, 28 March 1968, initiates priority reinstatement action.

3. Citizenship: The subject is a Cuban citizen and was born on 14 February 1937 at Matanzas, Cuba, and resides at IDENTITY B.

4. Compensation: Commencing on the effective date of this agreement, the subject will be paid compensation at the rate of $800.00 per month. Such payments are to be made following completion of satisfactory service.

5. Taxes: The subject will be obligated to pay U.S. income tax. Taxes will be deducted from the above-stated paid compensation. The subject is eligible for Social Security (IDENTITY C). The subject is married and has a total of four dependents other than himself. The subject's dependents are residing in the U.S.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence: The subject will be paid $19.00 per day per diem during the time he is traveling and when he is in the country of assignment.

7. Operational Expenses: When properly authorized, the subject will be reimbursed for:

a. Operational travel, including mileage claims for official use of his personal automobile.

b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls, etc.

8. Other Commitments:

Bonus: No commitment for a bonus has been made. However, with prior approval of the appropriate Chief of Station, a bonus may be authorized for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The amount of the bonus will be commensurate with the risk taken and the results which were achieved. In the event of the subject's death in the line of duty, an amount not to exceed $5,000.00 will be paid to the subject's estate.

9. Contingent Obligations: No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject. There is no provision in this MOC to pay severance pay, and the subject is not eligible for severance pay because of the nature of this operational assignment.

Signed: H.L. Steadman, Field Contracting Officer

Revised: Contract Approving Officer

Reviewed: Special Contracting Officer
