Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give Office of Personnel comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section D. Provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During the period Subject was in charge of the Payroll Section at JMWAVE, his performance was, in the rater's opinion, not more than adequate. He apparently was of the opinion that being in charge of a section relieved him of the onerous tasks of filing and other related duties of like nature. As far as meeting the payroll deadlines, Subject was proficient in this duty, but he normally required considerable overtime work to meet these deadlines. He had many ideas which he presented to Chief, Finance Branch, for betterment of the payrolling system, but unfortunately, after due consideration, the majority of these ideas were found to be impractical and/or in violation of either good accepted commercial practice or Agency regulations. Suggestions made to him were outwardly accepted, but upon follow-up it was determined that he had failed to implement these suggestions. Overall, it is the rater's opinion that the Subject was barely adequate in performing his assigned tasks.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of Employee.

By Supervisor.

Employee has been under my supervision: 12 months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Subject departed the Station without seeing this Report.

Date: 17 Jun 1966. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Finance Branch. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ H. Robert Graham.

By Reviewing Official.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

Subject resigned and departed the Station rather suddenly and before there was an opportunity to observe his performance. The supervisor has made a careful evaluation with which I concur.

Date: 6 July 1966. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief for Support. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ William A. Jewett.
