(American Embassy Section—January 1960–January 1962)

On 18 June 1964 Nosenko (Hosenko) was asked to list the names of all officers who had either joined or departed the American Embassy Section from the time Nosenko (Hosenko) was transferred to the Seventh Department in 1955 to his return to the American Embassy Section in 1960. Nosenko (Hosenko) listed fourteen officers as having joined the section, and five who had been transferred out. In neither list did Nosenko (Hosenko) mention Bakhvalov.

A week later, however, on 24 June 1964 Nosenko (Hosenko) stated that “in 1959 and possibly in 1958 Mikhail Fedorovich Bakhvalov was the Deputy Chief of the American Embassy Section. I replaced him in his position in 1960 and he went to the Fifth Department as Deputy Chief.” In September 1964 Nosenko (Hosenko) asserted that Bakhvalov, [not the others he had identified earlier], had been Langelle’s case officer. In 1965 Nosenko (Hosenko) first mentioned that Bakhvalov, not Kovshuk, had been responsible for maintaining the Embassy security file and stated that Bakhvalov had shared with Kovshuk responsibility for supervising code clerk operations.

Comment: Interrogation has never resolved contradictions between Nosenko’s (Hosenko’s) earlier accounts of what functions he assumed from whom when he entered the Section, and his belated assertions that Bakhvalov was his predecessor as Deputy Chief.

Responsibilities

Shortly after reporting for duty in the American Embassy Section and following his short discussion with Gribanov, Nosenko (Hosenko) said he met with American Department Chief Klypin and Embassy Section Chief Kovshuk to discuss his responsibilities and functions in the section. Repeating what Gribanov had said, Klypin stressed that Nosenko’s (Hosenko’s) most important single responsibility in the section would be supervision of all KGB operational activity against American military and State Department code clerks stationed in Moscow. As for the other Americans at the Embassy, Klypin
