Field Information Report.

Country: Cuba/Dominican Republic. Report No. UFG-8473. Subject: Activities of the MDC: Possibility of Reactivating a Base in the Dominican Republic, Condition of Boats, Possible Alliances With Other Emigre Organizations. Date of information: 29 May to late July 1966. Place and date acquired: United States, Miami (10 June to 3 August 1966).

Source: A member of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques of information collection. This group has provided useful reports since 1961.

1. Summary: Laureano Batista Falla, leader of the Movimiento Democrata Cristiano (Christian Democratic Movement), returned to Miami from the Republic, where he allegedly obtained pledges of support for his anti-Castro undertaking from the Chief of the Air Force of the Dominican Republic, pending approval of President Balaguer. However, the military department of the MDC recently issued a document in which it voiced its discouragement, primarily against the approval of representatives of the MDC have discussed the signing of agreements with representatives of the Students' Revolutionary Directorate (DRE) and the Cuban Representation in Exile (RECE), no alliances have yet been formed, with the exception of (DRE) and the Cuban Representation ... alliances have been made.

2. Laureano Batista-Falla, organization secretary of the National Executive Committee of the MDC, left Miami on 6 June 1966 for Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic, and returned to Miami on 26 June. On 29 June he met with other leaders of the MDC to inform them of the results of his trip?

3. Batista said that during the discussions held with General Juan N. Folch Perez, Chief of the Air Force of the Dominican Republic, he had requested that Folch cooperate with the MDC by allowing the MDC to maintain Base Luna, located at Estero Balsey, near the town of Pepillo Salcedo (N 19-43, W 71-45).

[Batista] indicated his willingness to cooperate ... offered the following assistance, subject to the approval of President Balaguer, whom Folch said he will consult:

Coord release.
