While cell acting for A, S pretended he was hesitant to receive money but did not drag the story long (from fear that A might change his mind).

7. After the brief “ceremony” about giving and accepting the money, S asked if A had any news about the US Embassy Phone Directory. He reminded him that he had told A at their last meeting that he had no way of getting it. She asked if he knew anybody working in the MI USIS. When S answered that he did not think so, A told him there were a number of girls working for USIS. They worked on the 3rd floor of the Embassy building, and several of them lived in the Hotel Geneve; they carried out some propaganda. A was not sure “how far” one could get with them (in terms of having a good time), but there was no problem getting them (although the interest was limited to one girl) to go out for dinner and dancing. This was something she should look into. S commented to the effect of asking A whether he had an idea how much it would take to take a chick like those for an evening of good time; such a bill ran about MN 700. A replied that money was no problem; if S lined something up, it was enough if he phoned him a day earlier and A would bring him the money.

8. At this point A gave S the following instruction: If S ever needed something from A, such as money, or had something for A, he should call the Embassy and state that he wanted to speak to Vladimir of the Consulate and stress that it was Vladimir calling. If A was in his office, he would take the phone and there would be “just mucho gusto de saludarle” from both sides. If A was not there, S was to request that the message be given that Vladimir had called. The call should be made in the morning if possible.

Regardless of whether S got to speak to A, he was to go the same evening at 2000 hours to their meeting place at Samborna-San Angel.

9. She would see what could be done and asked A whether it was possible that he was not able to do anything about the platinum. A apologized that it had skipped his memory to tell S that he had spoken to their Commercial Counselor Viktor Ivanov (full name mentioned by A) about the matter and that Ivanov wanted first to know through which Swiss bank the transaction would be carried out, the terms of the deal the buyers proposed, and to be advised that the Soviets were not interested in any deals worth less than 1 million US dollars. As soon as S submitted the information, S and Ivanov would start working on the deal; if Ivanov left before the deal was closed, it would not.
