Telephone 65628. Printing Shop—San Francisco 483. All correspondence: Casilla 1250—Santiago. Publishers: David A. Phillips; J. Taylor Collins. Associate Editor: Edmond K. Bannon. Literary Editor: Oswald Hardey Evans. Technical Advisor: Jose F. del Rey. Advertising Staff: Victor A. Parker, Leonor Trew, Robert Hansen.

First published as the “Chilean Times,” August 1, 1951.

France in Morocco

There has always been discussion about the peculiar trait of human nature which ends in expression in a feeling of pleasure in contemplating the misfortunes of others. The great Lucretius in his poem “De rerum natura” tells of the satisfaction enjoyed in witnessing, from the safety of the shore, the shipwrecked mariners struggling in the sea, but he does not seem to have found anything reprehensible in the sentiment. Nowadays we should, of course, indignantly deny any such baseness in ourselves, though we may not be so sure about “the other fellow,” who is quite capable of putting a banana skin on the path for our special benefit. However this may be, it cannot be ignored that the “foreign” press tends to dwell on the difficulties of Great Britain, formerly in India and Palestine, now in Iran and Egypt, conveniently forgetting the fact that no country in the world with international responsibilities can hope, in present world circumstances, to evade situations dangerous to national prestige.

Just twenty years—no more—have passed since a magnificent “Exposition Coloniale” was held in the Parisian suburb Vincennes, which attracted visitors from all parts of the world and was proudly pointed to in many countries as convincing evidence that the great nations of Europe, and the United States with them, were in no way disposed to accept the concept of “the twilight of the West” or to renounce their “mission civilisatrice.”

How stands that Colonial Empire today? It has to be remembered that France, as a colonial power, had a great asset shared by no other Western nation—the absence of a rigid colour bar. The extending to “native” peoples of the full rights of French citizenship went beyond legal formulae; mixed unions are not frowned on, and “a touch of the tar brush”—or of yellow paint in the Far East—conveys no stigma, whatever other handicaps may have to be overcome. Moreover, colonial France has called forth the energy, and in not a few cases the genius, of great soldiers and administrators, second to none, and whatever may happen in the future, their place in history is secure. Nevertheless, though the “coeur” still flies over many lands and over millions of many races, all of them, potentially if not actually, overseas Frenchmen, the wave of nationalism rising to full tide after the disasters of the Second World War has swept away many landmarks that seemed to have their foundations firmly based in tradition. Syria and Lebanon, with their great French Crusader castles, speaking still of warriors and heroes of the past who left their giant bones from Antioch to the Gulf of Aqaba and beyond—all gone. In Indo-China and Annam, Tonquin and Madagascar, we see French dominion fighting there for its very life, and fate hangs daily in the balance. Now the interest and anxiety concentrates on Morocco, a question that really concerns all French Africa, north and central.

In Morocco the position is peculiar. Less than fifty years ago, though so near Europe, Morocco was very little known and foreigners were not welcomed there. The mutual jealousy of European powers helped to perpetuate this situation until it became intolerable, and in return for the usual shady agreements not to interfere with the ambitions of others elsewhere, France was given a free hand to go ahead. By 1912, it was possible to speak of “pacification,” and since that date, with a shadowy native ruler in nominally supreme authority, the civilizing of Morocco had gone far enough by 1913 for that country to have its “pavilions” in the Exhibition. But under the surface nationalism fermented, raising difficulties for the Sultan as well as for French military and civil authorities. These difficulties have now become acute, and have been raised in the United Nations by the representative of Iraq, a claim that led the French representative to leave the Mandate Commission during the hearing. It is only Great Britain, e.g., that has to segment out its problem in the Mediterranean area!

As to say that you tamper with the text. However, I find it more than difficult to believe that a girl with a name like Daphne Codd should be selected by the International Pearl Divers’ Association (A.F.L.) as the “GIRL WITH WHOM WE WOULD LIKE TO SHUCK OYSTERS.” One other point!
