American Embassy.

LIREALM-1's efforts against the local French target have produced some notable results. First, through detailed analysis of personality and other data provided by LIREALM-1, the Station selected an access agent to the official French community who was later successfully contacted and was offered a contract (see reference C). The Station is already at work on what appears to be a good lead provided by the access agent spotted and developed by LIREALM-1. It should be emphasized that LIREALM-1 was in no way connected with the approach made to the French access agent. The second item on which LIREALM-1 has made progress has been the development of a Mexican employee of the French Embassy who is used as a general courier inside the Embassy. This development, for security reasons, has been slow. LIREALM-1's "line" has been that a person with "the ability" of the courier can and should expect a better paying job than the one he currently holds. The courier ended up taking that line as his own to "protect" him (as he probably would have some trouble if the Embassy discovered he was looking for another job). LIREALM-1 started meeting the Mexican courier outside the French Embassy. This gave LIREALM-1 the opportunity to talk to his prospect at some length without attracting the attention of the members of the Embassy. This is as far as the Station will allow LIREALM-1 to go in this case, which is currently being reviewed to decide who will continue the development of the Embassy courier and how. LIREALM-1 will not, in any case, have any connection with the person selected for this task. He will continue to maintain contact with the courier but will start to see him less often and will admit, in the end, that finding a job for him turned out to be more difficult than expected.

3. LIREALM-1 meanwhile is continuing to cultivate a number of selected members of the French Embassy and reports on their activities as a matter of routine. He has also maintained contact for some months with a wealthy Mexican businessman who is a good friend of DEVOSJOLY, the ex-French intelligence officer who provided the material for Leon URIS' best seller Topaz. LIREALM-1, in fact, had established DEVOSJOLY's identity as coauthor of the book long before this became known publicly. He was shown by DEVOSJOLY'S friend a safe at the latter's house in Mexico City full of documents probably belonging to DEVOSJOLY. This information was reported to Headquarters via "special" channels.

4. LIREALM-1's handling of LIRELIC-1 encompasses two targets. By far the more important one is LIOGLE. The goal here is hopefully to turn LIRELIC-1 into a penetration of LIOGLE using several good contacts he has in this organization as a stepping stone. Some steps have been taken in this direction. LIRELIC-1 has addressed personal requests for assistance to current key LIOGLE personalities. He has also submitted his curriculum vitae in the hope of landing a job in LIOGLE. This has so far failed to produce any concrete LIOGLE job offer. LIRELIC-1 realizes, of course, that he is of no value to LNHARP unless he obtains a job giving him access to hard information on LIOGLE plans and activities. The promise of a regular salary, as a matter of fact, is completely dependent on LIRELIC-1's ability to penetrate LIOGLE. In an effort to maintain interim contact, however, and help LIRELIC-1 liquidate some personal debts, the Station, via LIREALM-1, made him a loan of 3,000 pesos. Further details on the LIOGLE aspects of the LIRELIC-1 operation will be covered in the forthcoming LIOGLE/LIRELIC progress report. In addition to
