Chief of Mission's Evaluation of Performance.

Officer being rated: Chief, SRF. Post: Kingston, Jamaica. Position: Special Assistant to the Ambassador. Grade: FSR-5. Rating period: July 3, 1975. Date of report: August 15, 1975. Signature of reporting officer: Summer Gerard. Title: Ambassador. Signature of reviewing officer. Title.

Evaluation of performance. Outstanding.

Does this officer properly understand and perform his role and his functions as a member of your staff under existing Presidential directives? Yes. Has he seen this report? No. Officer left the post before preparation.

Narrative comments.

The incumbent is a quiet, low-key, but highly energetic and competent professional officer in his chosen field. He has discharged the responsibilities of his first more or less independent command in an outstanding way. His manner is always crisp and efficient, and as nearly as I can determine, he runs a tight ship while at the same time commanding both the affection and respect of his staff. His manner towards me has invariably been responsive and supportive. Given the inherent difficulties of the relationship, I have deliberately put pressure on him from time to time to determine his reactions. As a result, I am confident he has been fully candid with me and has shared any information which might be relative to my concerns and activities. We have been passing through a particularly difficult phase in Jamaican-US relations, in which the slightest misstep by any US Government agency, but particularly by the incumbent and his people, could have been seized upon to possibly embarrass this mission and the US Government. The incumbent has been sensitive to these dangers, has consulted with me at every turn and has taken whatever steps are possible to reduce the risk while still meeting basic requirements.

Beyond his professional specialty, the incumbent has been an important part of our Embassy family. As a member of the Country Team, he has always offered his views when asked if he felt he had a contribution to make, and I have often found them to be most helpful. He has also served as the mission's representative on the Board of the Priory School which most mission children attend. As such, he has made an …
