Nuevo del Valle. Special Power of Attorney.

In San Diego del Valle, on June 5, 1967.

Before me: Doctor Aurelio R. Arrimonas (ARRIMONAS) Trimello, lawyer and notary public of the Association of Las Villas (Lus Villas), province of Santa Clara, residing here.

There appear Mrs. Anastasia Yun Cho and Mr. Pedro Kim, married to each other, Cuban citizens of legal age, a housewife and an employee, respectively. She was born in Mendez Caputo, Cárdenas, and he in Mexico. Both reside at Carretera do Varadero, kilometer two, house number 12, Cárdenas, Cuba, and are accidentally in this place.

I attest to knowing the appearers and to being sure of their birthplaces and other personal data, according to their statements.

They appear on their own behalf, exercising their corresponding rights, and assure that they are in full enjoyment of their civil rights and have the necessary legal capacity for this act. They jointly state:

First: That as the legitimate parents of Jorge Kim Yun, born in Cerdeña, Cuban citizen of legal age, unmarried, deceased, and formerly a resident of the United States of America, they, being his only and universal heirs, grant, give, and confer the most ample, whole, and complete authorization and power of attorney, so far as necessary and according to law, in favor of Mr. Roberto M. Truso, Cuban citizen of legal age, married, an employee, born in Santa Clara, province of Las Villas, Cuba, and resident of 41-25 Kioona BIV, Apartment 4 B, Flushing, New York, U.S.A., so that, representing their person, rights, and actions, he may use and exercise it with the following faculties:

First: To administer and direct all the wealth, rights, and actions that the appearers have and are entitled to as sole heirs or beneficiaries of the deceased Jorge Kim Yun, as well as all the wealth that belonged to him or that he may have collected in the United States, whether cash or bank deposits, governmental or private, movable property and personal property, and in general everything belonging to the inheritance of the aforementioned deceased person, without restrictions; to withdraw cash from the bank account or accounts that the principal had in his name or in the name of the appearers, as beneficiaries or heirs, in the manner provided by the laws in force in said country; to receive checks, pensions, compensations, or any other amounts due for any reason, that may be issued or that the principal has the right to collect, the appearers also being able to do so as heirs, beneficiaries, or transferees, whether the aforementioned assets originate from the American state, banking trusts, or private agencies of any kind; to sign and subscribe to the corresponding and necessary documents for those purposes; to send the appearers the aforesaid amounts, deducting from said quantities the expenses in which the proxy may incur; and to assume custody of all the wealth belonging to the principal and his heirs.
