Cuban civil war. Galbe (Calbe) went to France and married a French woman. Both lived in a village where she prospered owning a beauty shop. He lived off family wealth and held jobs on a number of newspapers. Never stayed long in any one job due to his explosive nature and was actually fired from Information. In the early forties he turned to radio work and in 1944 was fired from a radio station of the Cuban Ministry of Education due to a violent attack on Pope Pius XII. Circa 1958 Galbe obtained a job as professor of penal law at the University of Oriente (in Santiago), where he associated with leftists. He began indoctrinating students in communism. Among the attendees was Vilma Espin (Raul Roa's wife). Galbe's Santiago home was a relay center for messages to and from Fidel Castro, then fighting in the Sierra Maestra.

4. In January 1959 named prison director and thereafter cultural attaché to Rome.

5. Identity B, a Cuban national who knew Galbe during the Cuba period, confirmed paragraph 2 statements and told AMBLEAK-1 that Galbe participated in fake trials of anticommunists and, as prosecutor, always demanded the death penalty. Identity B is an informant of AM-

Honi soit qui mal y pense.

The secretary in the country went to France and married a Frenchman. How can she prosper owning a beauty shop? There went the holy work of Christ in all three ages, from birth till death.

While the manufacturer of the air in Belgium is not only a patriot and a Christian, but also a prince of the royal lords' title, and a son of Emperor Harry Columbus Bronzini of Venezia and a director of the International Digital War Allied Army of the UK government.

And as a productive employee of the British corporate enterprise, the Bob Walker Company of the USA is getting into association with the modern methods of processing of the New Faraday Chemical Co. and other advanced science and technology.

This new procedure is called by the name of the American doctor Joe Bobbins and by the German doctor Bertha Kreisler, who are skilled in every and all of the new medical techniques, with the new method and proposed formula and specific dosages for the new treatment for all the causes of Black Panda, of all the causes of other non-cancer diseases and certain normal diseases.

More specific information about the new treatment for all the causes of Black Panda, of all the causes of other non-cancer diseases and certain normal diseases: for us, go to www.virginian-digital.com and look up “Joe Bobbins” or “Bertha Kreisler” or “The New Medical Treatment for.
