Dispatch to: Chief of Station, Quito; Chief of Base, Guayaquil. Info. From: Chief, WH.

Subject: Report of PBRIME citizen on connections with Ecuadorian Government.

Action required references: Please comment on subject and his statements.

I. The following paragraphs are quoted from an ODENVY report resulting from an interview with Identity. The addressees are requested to comment on the subject's statements and to send to Headquarters information concerning the subject's activities in Ecuador bearing on his statements.

A. On August 29, 1960, Identity was interviewed by ODENVY at his request. Identity related that he had just returned from a trip to Ecuador where he had been offered a job to represent that country as an agent in PBPRIME and he was seriously considering this offer. While in Ecuador, he had conferred with four individuals who he believed would run the new government which was to be sworn into office on August 31, 1960. These persons were identified as follows: Jaime Robot Velasco, Minister of Development; Pedro J. Menendez Gilbert, Mayor of Guayaquil, Ecuador; Luis Noboa, an Ecuadorian businessman; and Enrique Ponce Luque, a Senator and partner of Noboa.

B. According to Identity, the now president of Ecuador, Jose Maria Velasco Ibarra, has been elected to that office for the fourth time and is an aged person. The above-listed individuals will control and operate the Government of Ecuador with the approval of Ibarra. As a result of his conferring with the above persons, Identity expressed the belief that Robot will be the strong in the government. He described these individuals as patriotic with a sincere desire to better the plight of the common man in Ecuador. Identity stated that all of them are definitely pro-PBPRIME and Robot said that all Identity has to do is tell him what PBPRIME.

Under separate cover.

Distributions: 2 — Quito; 1 — Guayaquil.

Date typed: 5 Oct 1960. Date dated: 8 Oct 1960.

Dispatch symbol and number: RQW-2393.

Headquarters file number: 01-41581.

Originating office: WH/1/E. Officer: Hendersonhall. Typist: sel. Extension: 3847.
