Glance at the pass, put in the official validating Arbeits Art cachet. With this document, Subject proceeded to the Berlin “Presidium” (Police Headquarters) where, on the basis of this document, Subject was able to obtain a foreigner's passport. Subject advised that he was successful in this endeavor only because the various German departments had very little liaison with each other, and there appeared to be no central card index system whereby individuals could be cross checked. Another reason that Subject advanced as an explanation for his success was that, according to Subject, German clerks were extremely conscious and respectful of any official-looking cachet, and could not conceive that anyone would have the effrontery of counterfeiting an official document. Subject explained that the information he had filled in the passport stated that he was allowed to proceed to France in order to visit his parents. Subject described the foreigner's passport as a regular booklet with a grayish color. The same procedure was utilized in order to obtain a passport for Pascal.

24. Sometime during the spring of 1943, Subject and Pascal returned to Paris, and both decided that there was no point in remaining in France under the German occupation, and they made plans to go to Brazil. They took the train and proceeded to the Spanish border, arriving in the town of Hendaye. They crossed into Spain through a mountain trail, and attempted to exchange their French francs into Spanish pesetas. They were unsuccessful, were looked upon very suspiciously, remained for one day and decided to return to France, where the German Grenz Polizei, which Subject believes were members of the Wehrmacht, arrested Subject and Pascal and kept them under guard for a period of approximately four days. During this time, they were mildly interrogated, and a check was made to see whether they were wanted by the German Police. After four days, they were released and taken under guard to the Hendaye Railroad Station, and were told to buy tickets to Paris, which they had indicated as their residence.

25. As soon as the German authorities left, Subject and Pascal changed their tickets for another destination, and got out at the town of Pau. There they proceeded, on foot, to Moléon on the border of Vichy France. They crossed over and met two gendarmes and told the gendarme that they (Subject and Pascal) wanted to join the Foreign Legion. At the gendarmerie, they were given an official travel order to proceed to Toulouse. Upon arriving there they were told to proceed to Marseilles. In Marseilles, Subject and Pascal made a faux pas. They showed their German passports, and the attitude of the French changed. Pascal indicated to the French authorities that he would volunteer as a worker in Africa, and Subject stated that he would return to Paris. Subject went to Lyons where he had a friend, a far-removed cousin by the name of Guiga who was later killed during an air raid. Subject's cousin attempted to help him (Subject) but was unable to do so, and Subject took the train to Chalon-sur-Saône, the border between occupied and unoccupied France.

26. At the border, the guard misread Subject's name as Fritz WILLI. Subject played his role to the hilt, using his knowledge of the German.
