Other Security and Cover Situations: The past allegations of Q/1's affiliation with JKLANCE, many pre-dating his actual recruitment, add an extra dimension to Q/1's cover situation. We have no indication that any of these allegations are based on any proof, nor have they produced a significant reduction in his number of contacts.

Ability to Work Without Supervision: Q/1 is a self-starter and can work well for extended periods without supervision.

Administrative Requirements: Q/1 poses only a minimum administrative burden. He is not overly concerned about his administrative and financial position, allowances, payments, etc. He merely expects JKLANCE to do the fair thing by him. However, on the rare occasion when JKLANCE has failed to perform as he expected, he can be very upset.

Reporting: Q/1 is a journalist by training. He is an effective reporter—both in terms of ability to elicit and writing style.

Personal Energy and Endurance: Q/1 is quite energetic and can continue his efforts on a sustained basis.

Languages: In addition to his (native) English, Q/1 can speak French, Italian and German.

Willingness to Travel: Q/1 is quite willing to travel—and even enjoys it!

Area Knowledge: Q/1 is quite widely travelled in Europe and Africa and consequently has acquired an extensive area knowledge.

Administrative and Financial Ability: Q/1's present operating context does not provide an adequate basis to evaluate these talents. It is assumed that he has a satisfactory competence in both these areas, however.

Weaknesses; Personal and Professional: Q/1 has no major weaknesses, either personal or professional, which inhibit his operational use. The existence of his "reputation" as a JKLANCE asset—which is believed by some and rejected by others of his contacts—is a definite limitation on his employment.

Career Possibilities: Q/1 has mentioned to his handler that he hopes to be able to make a career of his relationship with JKLANCE. He enjoys the work and presumably the financial security. However,
