Section C. Narrative Comments.

This officer has continued to give a uniformly strong or better performance during the rating period. Comments in his previous fitness report continue to apply. He has received slightly lower ratings for some specific duties in Section B only because he received a well-deserved promotion last year and now must be evaluated in comparison with other GS-14s. As can be seen from the rating, even at this new level we feel he is giving a fine performance in comparison with his new peers.

Although the Station cannot claim any breakthrough in the REDTOP field during the rating period, this officer's work continued high in quality and quantity. He added three new members to our stable of REDTOP access agents, developed an intensive target analysis program and improved our REDTOP reporting in general to the point where it has been commended by Headquarters. The most recent Headquarters evaluation stated: “The efforts against PTL Soviets show imagination and sound analysis, and reporting has improved greatly. The changes in the PTL are reasonable and the Station's support operations are well-tailored to provide information of use in programming human access to the Soviets on the PTL. Lastly, plans for the next half-year are realistic. We are encouraged by the Station's unmistakable positive attitude about the prospects of the effort against this difficult target.” Working against this frustrating and difficult target, this officer has retained his.

Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report and reviewing. Date: 12 April 1971. Signature of employee: /s/ Thomas Keenan.

Official Comments. By Supervisor. Date: 12 April 1971. Official title of supervisor: DCOS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Wallace Mills.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the rating officer's evaluation and comment and would like to stress that the only reason his letter rating has dropped from outstanding to a solid strong is that he is now being rated as a GS-14 and not as a GS-13. A comment is also in order in regard to his possible cautiousness which is mentioned in the narrative portion of the report. Subject is a truly professional officer and especially adept at CI/FI. He is therefore able to quickly spot some weaknesses in proposed operations and quite properly and always accurately points these out. On the other hand, in the Latin American environment some risks are acceptable which would not be tolerable in a situation where a higher degree of professionalism is mandatory. At times I have been in the anomalous position of approving an operation which Subject, perceptibly.

Date: 12 April 1971. Official title of reviewing official: COS. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Dino J. Pionzio.
