(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION - January 1960-January 1962)

No further action was taken. [See below for ABIDIAN'S account of a similar incident, but one which occurred in Armenia.]

NOSENKO did not know the room number of ABIDIAN's office in the Embassy or on what floor it was located, but he could have checked, if necessary, with a copy of the Embassy telephone list published monthly, since it contained the office room number of each American employee. [The Embassy telephone list contained apartment, but not office room numbers.] ABIDIAN's office was in the "Zone of Security" (i.e., secure office areas). NOSENKO said that a report from an agent (identity not recalled) indicated that there was a sign on ABIDIAN's office door which said "Security Office". [There was no such sign.] NOSENKO was unable to determine if ABIDIAN had a secretary. No dictation was monitored in ABIDIAN's office because no KGB microphone was installed there. [In 1964 a microphone, albeit then inoperative, was found in the room occupied in 1960-1961 by ABIDIAN.] NOSENKO recalled no particularly interesting or important information about ABIDIAN obtained from other microphones in the Embassy.

NOSENKO did not know the location of ABIDIAN's apartment in the Embassy building, nor how it was furnished, since "data of this nature was not operationally significant unless the target had shown vulnerabilities or was under active development".

Aware that ABIDIAN travelled from the USSR two or three times while stationed in Moscow, NOSENKO did not know to which countries he went or the time of year when the trips were made. Such information would have been of interest to him as ABIDIAN's case officer since, like LANGELLE's earlier trips abroad, ABIDIAN's trips were presumed to be for operational purposes. However, there was no possibility for the KGB to find out where ABIDIAN had gone; even if the Embassy Section did establish where ABIDIAN would travel, nothing could be done about it because the foreign Legal Residencies of the KGB First Chief Directorate "would not accept a request for operational action against an American diplomat coming from Moscow".
