Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil

José Antonio Echeverría (Jose antonio echeverría)—con las ideas en marcha

Introduction

This report is a general analysis of the labor performed by the Section of International Relations of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) and of its plans for the future. However, it would take much time to make a precise account of the labor accomplished in more than one year, so we will limit it to a general outline, hoping that in the near future a more detailed one may be presented.

General View of the Labor Accomplished

The DRE can firmly assert that the labor carried through by the Section of International Relations has been a definite triumph for the organisation, due to the importance of the ground of operation and the intensity with which it has been developed. It is not an easy task to organise in such a brief term an international field of operation like ours, which has already borne fruits and, in only one year, has attained great renown, even outside the borders of our continent. If all the motives for which the DRE's Latin American Plan has attained such success were to be outlined, we would never finish. We are going to list those which we consider are the most important:

A. There can be no doubt that the most important labor has been the one developed by the DRE Delegates in Latin America. During many months, the economic support given to the Section of International Relations was so short that only with the voluntary sacrifices of our delegates in Latin America could the section be kept in function. We can name countless examples of generosity and self-sacrifice to our cause: There were Delegates who, for many months, slept in cots and even on the floor, others who lived surrounded by a wretched atmosphere, and others who even went hungry. Our delegates fought to undergo all difficulties and, many times against hostile atmospheres, equipped only with their enthusiasm and their ardent desire to carry our truth through America. The merits of our enterprise belong solely to them.

B. Maintain the DRE identified with the struggles of Latin America Students, with whom we have shared ideals and cooperation during this year.

C. Maintaining the system of propaganda from Miami to the labor which has made the DRE known throughout the continent and has increased delegations' prestige, in spite of the lack of information and economic means.

D. Maintain the DRE identified with the representative movements in each country, its firm position fighting for the reconstruction of Cuba, crossing out Batista's abhorrent past and Castro's inhuman present, and holding an understanding posture towards the serious problems in Latin America, social injustice, oppression, militarism and ignorance. We have made also ours the longing for the ransoming of our continent. We have experienced all this surrounded by gigantic difficulties, limitations and, in many occasions, incomprehensions by those whom we had trusted. Moments of downheartedness have lived within us more than once, but our spirit has maintained its firmness still hoping that the
