7. CIGET — Subject, the youngest of the five in the group, is a very intelligent, broad, and comprehensive young man. He possesses considerable versatility, initiative, and imagination, and on numerous occasions came up with ideas on proposed exercises. His written compositions were well prepared, and he was a good performer in field problems. Given his youth, he should be cautioned against taking unnecessary risks, but it is believed that with some experience and time he will make an excellent officer. Like all men, he accepts criticism normally and, on all occasions when observed, takes matters in stride, adding well to what his fellow workers have said.

6. COMMENTS

1. The above comments, it should be noted, are based on a rather short observation period; they should be considered accordingly. The size of the group, somewhat larger than usual for one instructor, necessitated this; the instructor spent less time with each learner than usual. The writer appreciated the opportunity to work with the group and enjoyed it tremendously. He considers them a fine group of men and believes that with time and experience they will make a valuable contribution to the work with which they will be charged.

2. In accordance with the expressed wishes of their supervisor, the following suggestions and recommendations have been made. Considering that no additional men with this background will be added to the staff, it is suggested that any changes be made generally within the unit, and that contributions may be made further. In addition to operations, consideration might be given to having additional men who are added later serve as section chiefs. CIGET seems to have a more than normal interest in this work and thus might be given that responsibility. Of those best fit as section chief of the group charged with duties against Communist and extremist groups, MNOVA might best fit as section chief in charge of these activities. These comments are based almost exclusively on their apparent interests, based on questions asked and comments made during the classroom discussions. The writer does not mean to suggest that they have shown interest in the above proposed assignments.

3. Finally, the writer wishes to thank everyone for excellent cooperation and support. Special thanks also for the unselfish course support generally.
