6 May 1965

21.5 In. Miric with Inge Kico, who answers for VKG. He is out. He will probably have news when he comes home, and she will have his phone. Miric if it is early.

22.0 In. Miric with Inge Kico, who answers. VKG is not back. VKG is at the house of Jose Luis Gonzalez. They are waiting on a call from there (Dominican Republic). Miric has had an official communication on this matter and would like to tell VKG. What is the phone where VKG is? Moment...

He is at 24-07-15. Thanks.

22.2 Out to 31-06-06. VKG with Jovan (Miric), who answers. VKG says they were waiting on a call from Casanare, but it did not go through. It will be tomorrow. Apparently, they will name Marcio Mejia Ricart as Ambassador in the United Nations. VKG did not think it a good idea. Miric says it is all right for the state they are in. Another man will be named Ambassador in Mexico. Miric comments that they must make this movement. Miric has the communique. Dechamps gave it to VKG. The most important part is pointing out that Harris is lying. Miric says, “What this man is doing, he is influential, no? ...follows a cause and is doing some foolish things.” Does VKG know what happened in China? No. Thousands and thousands against—after Buenos Aires, the day before yesterday. Miric also has a declaration of the Permanent Commission of Congress approving the censure of the government. VKG saw it.

What is VKG’s idea of panorama? YAG thinks they won’t leave. Miric agrees—that this is a long-time affair (U.S. occupation).

Miric saw the inauguration of Casanare. He has personality. He is only 33 years old. Does Miric know that Casanare told Marcio Mejia yesterday that he had 50,000 more rifles? Yes, Miric sent in this notice yesterday. They are in the North. They are still in revolution. This is just a breather.

Perhaps they can get together tomorrow. Miric has to go out early tomorrow. They could have lunch together near the CEPAL meeting. CEPAL is under the same shade of the Dominican affair. VKG can get all material on speeches. But nothing is important about their decisions; everything is under the shade of this affair. Miric will follow the speeches. They can meet near “Siempre.” They can eat at Oreo at 7 p.m. Miric has not been there for years. They can meet there. Best later than 1200. Miric will pick VKG up at “Siempre” at 1300. Fine.

7 May 1965, 0630.
