4. In case the AMEIJERAS operation fails to develop, and the Agency should decide to cut off support to AMWORLD, A-4 says they will continue to try to operate as long as they can. He said that instead of 200 people they might be operating with 20, but they could do something. So long as they have the hardware with which to operate they can “sell” operations each time. For example, he said, they would go to Cuban exiles, to Venezuela, to American businessmen, etc. and would tell them, “The October operation will cost $25,000. If you will underwrite it we will dedicate it to you and run it in your name.” He feels this would carry them for a few months provided they can run a few successful operations.

5. A-4 said that when the support ran out, the hardware was all gone, and there was nothing left with which to operate, A-1 would take 12 or 15 of his hard core followers and go into the Escambray in Las Villas to make one last ditch effort. I asked him if A-1 felt he would have any chance of a success and A-4 stated that should such a state come to pass, A-1 would definitely go in with the expectation of being run down eventually and shot but that he would do this in order to go out in a blaze of glory and to continue to serve as a martyr. A-4 said there was absolutely no doubt in his mind that A-1 would follow this course, that he had a hero complex and a martyr complex and was completely without fear of death. A-4 again mentioned an idea held by A-1 that he will not live past 29 January 1963 (his birthday) because he is convinced that he is destined to reach the peak moment of his life during his 33rd year (as did Jesus Christ) and does not expect to live beyond that time.

6. I asked A-4 where he, personally, stood in such a future undertaking. He said that he was no hero, but he had dedicated seven years of his life as a schoolboy and young man to Cuban independence, and he could not stop now. He would not go in deliberately to die as a martyr, but he would continue with his work doing the best he could with whatever means he could come by. He stated, “A-1 is not such a leader (loader) as Tony VARONA who can separate himself completely from the struggle and go out to sell used cars. A-1 cannot exist in a life which is routine and without personal power. He will die first even in a suicidal mission.” A-4 stated that
