27 July 1967

1. LIRING/3 reported to Rowton at a brief preliminary debriefing that during Rowton’s absence, an unidentified Guatemalan telephoned him at a safehouse and instructed him to go to Tapachula on 19 July and await contact in the lobby of a local moviehouse. LIRING/3 stated that he took the trip and was approached in the lobby by the same young Mexican Guatemalan woman, with oriental features, whom he had met in Guatemala City during his last trip. This woman simply informed him that a comrade would contact him (L/3) at his home in the next few days and discuss future operations. LIRING/3 continued that he returned to Mexico City the next day and was contacted at his home by a Guatemalan aged about 45, with a mustache, glasses, balding head, and slightly hooked nose, wearing a hat, who later stated that his true name was Moises Crozco Deal and that he had been in Mexico for the past twenty years.

2. At a meeting the next day in a safehouse, Crozco informed L/3 that he was ordered by the Montes group to establish contact with L/3 in order to expedite the first shipment of arms and ammunition, which was urgently needed. When L/3 mentioned the possibility of an airlift from the San Cristóbal area through a small privately chartered plane, Crozco became intensely interested and acceded to L/3’s request that he first meet with “responsible high-level” FAR representatives. Crozco stated that, in his opinion, L/3 should discuss the whole operation with Montes himself and volunteered to arrange a meeting in the near future.

3. LIRING/3 states that he is awaiting further instructions from Crozco and is prepared for a trip to Chiapas once final arrangements are made.

4. Regarding Garcia, L/3 reported that he had not reappeared and, when he queried Orozco about him, Orozco stated that he was personally not acquainted with him, since strict compartmentation was being enforced. Also, in the course of conversation, Orozco stated that only part of the medicines procured by L/3 had arrived at their destination and it was presumed that the remainder had been captured by the Guatemalan Army. He added that FAR needed a doctor urgently for about ten days and would appreciate L/3 arranging this if feasible. L/3 suggested to Rowton that Raúl Moreno, who is in his third year of medical studies, might qualify if Rowton could not come up with a fully qualified doctor.

5. Request traces on Moises Crozco Deal.

201-798361

a4 NO I to Humna - 92778, 15 August 1967
