Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 035655.

Section A: General. Name: MARSIMIIEC, Myros law. Date of birth: 04/30/17. Sex: M. Grade: 08. 30: IP. Official position title: D and E Tech. Officer of assignment: NPIC/P&DC/FIDU. Current station: Washington, D.C.

Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional (See instructions - Section C): X; Special (Specific) Eligible. Type of report: Initial; Reassignment Supervisor; Annual; Reassignment Employer; Special (Specific).

Date report due in O.P.: 31 July 1965. Reporting period: 30 June 1964 - 30 June 1965.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W. Work: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Photographs special equipment and experimental laboratory set-ups. Prepares prints for display and report purposes. Rating letter.

Specific Duty No. 2: Carries out experimental laboratory investigations on the photographic process, develops techniques supporting equipment, prepares technical reports. Letter.

Specific Duty No. 3: Attends senior branch members on their projects, carrying out photographic processing, providing assistance and consultation on the practical application
