LUSTRIKER Report #231, Kulpas

Subject: Contacts, 25–29 January.

30 January 1963

1. Serge Michel: Saw him at the Alotti Hotel, his house, and three times at my house. He says Yasid is de facto Minister of Information now, and will become Minister of Information over the next few weeks or month. Michel stayed with El Chaab long enough to get it on its feet, then moved on to plans for Atlas. When Atlas is established, he will move on again to look at Algeria and one-shot publications. He is going to the Congo in early April for a week to gather material for articles on Angola and the Congo. He is taking the line that Kennedy and Krueger are “allies,” with De Gaulle and Mao as enemies; thus Algeria should not be part of nor attack either one too much. He feels the Afrique Revolution is making political mistakes in this respect by attacking the United States, presumably with an article on Meredith and Mississippi, and can be termed the extreme left in Algeria. He feels Afrique Revolution will be taken over by Atlas staff in six months or less, and run on a less violent basis. Serge talked of his ancestors, saying they were all from Georgia, and that a translator was used when he talked with his grandparents, who only spoke Georgian but Russian. He is an apatride with a Moroccan passport, which I saw but could not get the number, containing his nationality as Moroccan, as opposed to other Moroccan passports for Algerians, which have the nationality lined through. His father was apatride also, and Serge claims he feels more for Algeria than any other country. He arrived here the first time when he was 20 years old, and from that time lived with Algerian rebels. He is 41 years old now. He has three boys, about one year, four, and six, all with Russian first names, and occupies a villa in Hydra. His wife speaks French with an accent, Russian, I believe. His infant is very sick with influenza.

2. Richard Gibson and wife: Saw them in his office as a result of his request for photos for Dave Matts in New York for the latter’s “Liberator” publication, which is a slick, leftist publication with a format something like a cross between Hemmuck and The New Yorker. I gave him four photos without my name, but he insisted on putting my name on the back for credit. He said Matts would pay me directly, since he had my address already. He also said I would probably get photo requests from London from a person whose name he did not remember. This person and Matts are also correspondents for Afrique Revolution in their cities. Mrs. Gibson is white, and appeared to me to be Jewish, probably from Brooklyn, judging from her accent. However, she could be foreign since the accent is difficult to place. Eduardo dos Santos was in the office, but was not very friendly. Gibson knew of my trip to Angola, probably from dos Santos via the Congo embassy in Tokyo, and wanted some photos when I returned.

3. Jean Marie Booglin: Booglin phoned me after having missed a luncheon with me last week. He has acted on my request to speak to Jacques Verges about using me when possible for Afrique Revolution. Verges is to meet me tomorrow to discuss photos. I am to bring non-violent action if possible, which is to be used as the first cover of Rev. Judas, if it is a suitable photo. Booglin will be there, and we are to meet today to plan the conversation with Verges to make sure I benefit.

4. Djalal Tehanderli (brother of U.S. Chanderli, although the name is spelled differently): He came to my home with Michel. He is going to the Congo to film Angolans in March, and wanted my agreement not to film for my cover company while there. I finally agreed, extracting a promise from him that he would not take any photos, thus leaving me that monopoly in exchange for the film monopoly. He and Michel feel they are related, both families coming from Georgia, and Michel having an uncle named Chanderli.

Name: Djalal Tehanderli. Company: Company of Chanderli.

Chanderli.
