Classified message. Action. Info. Date: 08 July 64. File.

Submitter: deferred. Priority: Routine; operational immediate. Status: JPC. DIG: 081455Z. Incoming number: 1033.

To Lima DIR. Typic DYVOUR INK. Ref PARI 5091 (not to MEXI).

1. Following is subject ref story on activities since went A'OL.

From Fort ORDM.

A. Upon hearing that uncle and aunt seriously ill, subj left by plane via Mexico City to Lima, arriving 6 Sept 63. Uncle Ernesto Velarde died October 63, aunt Elena Arenas de Velarde died 3 Dec 63. On his parents urging, subj wrote Pres Kennedy immediately on arrival Lima. Nov 63 received reply via Col Benson, Milatt at Lima. However did not see Col Benson until February or March 64.

B. January 64 subj accidentally met longtime friend, Ernesto Ayza del Risco, DOB ca 38, Spanish cit. Subj first discovered that Ayza involved with Communists in March 63 while subj was visiting Peru. At that time a Lima policeman was run over and killed by Secretary General of Peruvian Young Communist Group who was driving car owned by Ayza. Ayza suggested subj not return U.S. but go Cuba instead and introduced subj to Renteria who “would arrange everything.”

C. Between January and March, subj saw Renteria approximately every two weeks. At each meeting Renteria claimed plans to go to Cuba were progressing. During this period subj thought Renteria “just making talk.” However in March Renteria announced plans completed, and they ready to go. Then introduced subject to Castro Lavarello, Salomon Bolo Hidalgo and General Pando.

D. Subj and Renteria traveled together to Mexico City arriving 1 April. Renteria carried sealed letter from Lavarello to “Senor Jordan” which Renteria was to deliver at Cuban Embassy Mexico. At this point in interview, subject volunteered additional information on Jordan: Jordan is G-2 officer. Subj believes that Jordan is man in charge of Cuban program to train other Latin American nationals in subversion and guerilla warfare. Since subj at no time in Cuba was in company of other than Peruvians, this is logical misunderstanding. Subj met Jordan on several occasions. However Jordan held substantive discussions only with Renteria who, during entire time and on all matters, was considered subj supervisor and handler. Subj paid own fare from Lima to Mexico. Gen Pando, through Lavarello, gave Renteria and subj each 2000 soles pocket.

Contin...
