Report No. 316 (continued)

They continue to talk about De La Nuez, particularly the visitors. Ruiz says that after this they are going to have to strengthen the cadres, that it is important for everyone. He says he has spoken to J. Mauril Castreriaz (phon.), and they have agreed to form new, very strict cadres.

The visitors leave, and on saying goodbye Ruiz says not to discuss the De La Nuez affair too much so that it will not spread any further. Besides, they are all very impressed by it.

Valdes Vivo calls Ruiz on the telephone. Ruiz asks him if he has arrived at the hotel and if he has seen Marisi (phon.). Marisi is staying at the same hotel as Valdes. Ruiz says that Zorrilla has just been there, and he has given him the telephone number of the hotel for him to call. He says they have had no word on the Cubana flight, only that it is to arrive today and will leave tonight. But Ruiz says if it arrives at 3 o'clock, this will not give them time to inspect it and for all to leave, even though they will do it all at night. Both Valdes and Marisi are leaving this evening for Cuba.

Ruiz then speaks with Marisi and says that he had heard of his appointment as ambassador. Apparently, this is the one that is to be in Morocco. They say that this ambassador, in all the capitals that he is going to, is visited by the best doctors. Ruiz tells them that he has a luncheon engagement but that he will keep in touch regarding the flight.

Report No. 348

The ambassador who has just arrived from Beirut enters the office. He was at the movies last night, and they comment on it. Then two other persons come in, one of them is Zorrilla. They speak of various things: by diplomatic mail they should only send things of a confidential nature; everything else should go by diplomatic pouch.

Mercedes enters and says that Comrade Armando Velazquez, whom Ruiz does not know, is here. He is the father of the Cuban consul in Jamaica. He says he has been here 15 days waiting for something to be resolved. He adds that a Rosa Maria of the Ministry was supposed to resolve this problem, but she has not done so. He does not want to borrow money here, and Barreda has already given him 1000 pesos. He wants them to send a cable to Havana to resolve his situation. Mercedes says that this consul studied at the university with Barreda and that he is a very fine person.
