Fitness Report. The Fitness Report is an important factor in agency personnel management. It provides:

1. The agency selection board with information of value when considering the selection of an individual for membership in the career service; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report.

To the Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns direct and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

A next due date: 22 August '95. Postscript 10/21/95: RL 1976.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I, to be filled in by Administrative Officer.

Name: McGill, Jemsa H. Jr. Date of birth: 26 June 1924. Sex: M. Career designation: SD:SS. Date of entrance on duty: 22 August 1951. Office assigned to: Security Staff. Nature of assignment: Departmental. Date that this report is due: 31 August 1951. Period covered by this report: 22 August 1951 to 22 August 1955.

Section II, to be filled in by Supervisor.

Current position: Chief, External Branch, Security Research Staff. Date assumed responsibility for position: 1 January 1955.

As Chief, External Branch (CI), planned and directed sensitive CI investigations; coordinated action with other Government investigative services; analyzed results of investigations, conducted and directed detailed research on CI problems; conducted interrogations and interviews on all phases of CI activity; wrote detailed reports on CI cases;
