FONTS Sanchez was deliberately creative, difficult, and putting up roadblocks in connection with Cuban plans to put on an art exhibit in Mexico City. (Perhaps this falling out may be attributable in the current campaign to discreet APARICIO.)

6. On 5 June Hernández Gutiérrez and Angel Gómez Díaz arrived from Cuba to attend some sort of UNESCO meeting. Starting at the Hotel Nacional, Gutiérrez met his wife, MIRANDA, of the Embassy, L-2 here, that both of them have Spanish names. They are scheduled to return to Cuba about 5 July. Gómez Díaz's trip was paid for by UNESCO, not so much Gutiérrez. GUTIÉRREZ remarked that in Cuba he recently met one of the ranking Mexican chess players, who chided him by asking why two millionaires guarded all the buses in town.

h. Coby Solorzano arrived back on 5 June from Cuba. She brought both relatives for L-9 from his sister-in-law and said the s-i-l needs some medicine. This was the first time Coby had not L-9's brother and s-i-l, was very impressed by both—this reflects favorably on L-9. On 6 June Dra. MICHELO told L-9 that Coby had said lots of nice things about L-9's relatives in Cuba. (This is interesting since MICHELO rarely says anything nice to anyone.)

i. A staff meeting was held on Saturday 6 June (Juno). The Ambassador said that he had been invited by President LOPEZ Matos to attend the inauguration of a new hospital; remarked that this had happened a few times before but that he had noted that he is invariably the only ambassador in attendance—apparently LOPEZ Matos keeps him isolated.

j. INTERMINAN did not attend the staff meeting, but VEGA and Rogelio RODRÍGUEZ were there.

k. The procedure with hidden microphones was again evident at this staff meeting—staff members were warned once again to be careful what they say since the enemy is probably listening.

l. It was announced that APARICIO had been the target of unfounded accusation (in connection with the Porta ORTEGA de ARROYO case), but that everyone should know that he had acted in good faith in his dealings with this ballerina. The Ambassador then rapped APARICIO's mouth by saying that from this time on he should keep strictly to cultural matters, that “the next time something like this happens it will be more serious than a ballerina,” and that matters pertaining to the chancery should be referred to Dra. MICHELO. Although HERMELIN was not present, the Ambassador said that she gave warning applicable to the Consulate—it should not get involved in things which properly belong to the chancery.

m. APARICIO reported that a planned AMBOSAC social affair (perhaps a dance) would not take place because the organization had run out of money.

n. Regelio RODRIGUEZ (Rogelio RODRIGUEZ) is especially friendly to L-9 at this MEXIM staff meeting, gave him a pack of Cuban cigarettes, chatted about politics, etc.

o. On 8 June a Canadian citizen was visiting APARICIO.
