Country: Haiti. Report No. 00-B-3,260,765. Subject: Interview with Cleland Joseph Charles; possible Duvalier successor; his ideas, friends and supporters; interpretation of current situation. Date of information: to early May 1963. Place and date acquired: —, 2 May 1963. Number of pages: 3. References: 00/CD Case 40556.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. citizen, former journalist, who has followed developments in the Caribbean area closely for many months and maintains contact with persons directly concerned with the area.

His command of French and his habit of making detailed shorthand notes enable him to report with an unusual degree of accuracy.

1. On 2 May 1963, we had a four-hour interview with Cleland Joseph Charles, president and general manager of Banque Commerciale d’Haïti, Port-au-Prince, vice president of the Haitian Chamber of Commerce, and cousin of Joseph D. Charles, former Haitian ambassador to the U.S.

2. Cleland Charles, whose PO Box in Port-au-Prince is No. 5751, told us that he was a man of peasant stock and that while a business leader he has the full confidence of the predominantly peasant population of Haïti, and that, with the additional backing of forcibly retired anti-Duvalier army officers, intellectuals, journalists and businessmen, he is in a position to become the head of a provisional government after Duvalier is removed. He believes the span between now and 15 May, when Duvalier’s term expires, and 22 May, when his new term is scheduled to commence, will be the most crucial period for Haïti. He believes Duvalier is ready to institute a reign of terror, killing those who oppose him, and is willing to accept duvaliacoko. About two weeks ago, the Polish chargé d’affaires left Port-au-Prince for Poland, and Charles believes he carries Duvalier’s request for economic and possibly military help.

3. As vice president of the Chamber of Commerce, he learned that in early April 1963 a Czechoslovak delegation arrived in Port-au-Prince, presumably to discuss trade matters, a fact which gave rise to rumors that it consisted of military technicians.

4. Charles firmly believes this will be the last chance for the U.S. Government to help establish a democratic Haiti friendly to the U.S. and save the country for a Castro-type (Capital-type) Communist takeover. Although he has been on good terms with Duvalier, he now feels that the President has gone crazy and must be stopped before he liquidates the opposition. Shortly after Charles made this statement he was called to the phone. Returning, he told us that one of his friends had been killed two days before by Duvalier forces. He declined to give the name of the alleged victim, but told me mainly about some of his own influential supporters on whom he could rely with a firm pledge of holding free elections.

Group 1.
