1967

WHD Agent B.O.

Part I — Request for Action

Name: Peter J. Digervento (Pseudonym)

Status: Career Agent. (Career agent, contract agent, contract employee.)

Proposed Action:

Summary of branch and/or field recommendations; specific operational task performed by individual; views are long- and/or short-range utility of individual for Branch area and overall Division needs.

1. It is recommended that Peter J. Digervento, a Type A Contract Agent with Career Agent status, be promoted from his present grade GS-13, step 2 level to the grade equivalent of GS-14, step 1.

2. During the period 1 December 1965 through 25 February 1967, Digervento served as an operations officer in the MI Branch at the Miami Station. His performance during this period has been outstanding. His primary duty, and the one in which his performance has been exceptionally competent, was as the principal member of the so-called “operational flying squad” of the Station; i.e., he traveled, alone or with another officer, to various areas of the world to approach Cuban target personalities for recruitment purposes; to debrief newly recruited agents or resident agents traveling abroad; to train newly recruited agents or more senior agents; to serve as a consultant and advisor on Cuban affairs for stations or bases which did not possess an officer knowledgeable regarding Cuban operations; to aid such stations in conducting operations; and, where desired by the local station, to advise or assist local liaison services in the conduct of Cuban operations.

3. Only an officer with the highest qualifications makes a fully effective “flying squad” member. He must be fluent in Cuban Spanish; he must have area knowledge in depth concerning Cuba, including the latest internal developments. He must have a personality which enables him to induce officials—on occasion, very senior officials—to cooperate with the U.S. Government while serving inside Cuba despite the serious personal risks involved. He must be able to train agents in all of the complex skills involved in the maintenance of a resident.

C/WH/COJ Branch

Signature

Board Action:

Approved by:

Date:
