Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the national defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage (Espenak) laws, Title 10, U.S.C. §§ 793 and 794, the transmission or reproduction of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Guatemala. Subject: Armed Forces Coup d'Etat Planned. Report No.: 00-D-321/00782-66. Date distributed: 20 Jan 66. Number of pages: 1. References: CTRL O-DCS-52374. Date of information: 12 Jan 66. Place and date acquired: ---/12 Jan 66.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. national with wide travel experience in Latin America. He speaks some Spanish and has many social and business contacts in Latin America, but his reliability is not of the highest.

This report was developed by a Navy representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. On 12 Jan 66, Miguelito Ydigoras Laparra, son of the former President of Guatemala, told me that the Guatemalan Armed Forces were planning to overthrow Colonel Enrique Peralta on 15 Jan 66. Ydigoras told me that if the coup was not carried out on 15 January, it would be executed as soon as possible thereafter.

2. Ydigoras would not tell me the names of the individuals leading the coup, but stated that “all of the armed forces will be involved.”

The dissemination of this document is limited to those employees and other military personnel within the Intelligence Corps of the U.S. Department who are approved of the material subject to the most selective release policy. Distribution to all others is strictly controlled in accordance with paragraph 3 of Part 1111; it may only be released to these components of the Department and agencies of the U.S. Government directly participating in the promotion of National Intelligence. It shall not be disseminated to any outside organization, group, or individual, nor to any government agency or employee, without written approval from the Director of Central Intelligence. This document must be disseminated only to authorized officials of the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and its附件.
