104-10072-10013

Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, Title 18, U.S.C. Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an outside person is prohibited by law.

Press Release.

Country: UK. Report No. 00-A-3, 20, 015. Subject: Col. E. F. Pirozseff, Soviet Ambassador in London, returns to the UK from a mission to Germany that was part of his position as Ambassador to West Berlin. Date distributed: 4 December 1961. Possibility of forgery of this document and its accuracy, to German Ambassador to West Berlin. No. pages: 3. Date of information: 20 December 1961 and earlier. References: see page 36, No. 5. Place and date acquired: 27 September 1961 to 8 September 1961. C/S Morgan 5. Source: Mr. J. Charles.

This is unevaluated information.

Sources: U.S. citizens; most of the commentary pertains to a large U.S. intelligence institute. During the period 30 September 1961 to 23 October 1961, Col. E. Pirozseff, Soviet Ambassador and German Ambassador were present at the Berlin Protocol signatory's table, and of his status.

1. An intelligence officer can do part of his research work in the presence of an ambassador under the supervision of his own ambassador and by means of an intercept. He will be informed that he could write and pass a permit for his class of visa. His permit would expire after six months. It has been shown here that a passport given by a German Ambassador consists of the same requirements as a visa. Prior to emigration he had a scientific associate of the Institute of Scientific Research, of the University of Berlin, and later a diplomat in the State Department.

2. To write very much correspondence by fax or telex may become problematic if one does not have a telephone line to use. So, on 27 October 1961, we started a cable to Professor Walter Altmann, Assistant Secretary to the State Department, who was also a member of the Institute of Scientific Research. We ask him to get a machine which we can share with our American correspondent. It is now being built. It will be extremely useful to us, and would save much time and trouble. If we are automatically called up, it will be a great help to us. However, no such letter has yet arrived to date, so, now ill.

3. Another cable was sent by the State Department of Amsterdam, 6 November 1961, to the Executive Director of the Agency for Economic Relations, Amsterdam. This cable, together with one from the American Embassy, Paris, is being readied, and will be transmitted, on receipt, to the American Ambassador. As far as I am concerned, I can confirm this intelligence. Each Department will add what it thinks necessary to these cables, making them a little longer.

4. As far as I am concerned, I can confirm this intelligence. Each Department will add what it considers necessary to these cables, making them a little longer.

5. A total of his cables are 300, [illegible] in number, sent to Berlin, except one, which is being translated. Or it could be seen as one cable of about 1000 words in length, which would be too long to send by air. Or it could be broken up into several cables, and then translated. Or it could be broken up into several cables, and then translated. This would take a lot of time and trouble, and would make it very difficult to understand them all.

6. Flanagan is very well known. He is a very good speaker. He gives the title of his book as “The History of the Cold War.” He says, in
