During the early 1965 interrogations, NOSENKO volunteered: “If you had been clever you could have made me work inside the USSR; you could have contacted me through FRIPPEL...” NOSENKO was asked in October 1966 whether he had expected or hoped CIA would attempt to establish contact with him inside the USSR through FRIPPEL. He strongly denied this.

1. Remarks

NOSENKO claims to have participated directly or indirectly in every recruitment operation with American tourists in the years 1955–1959. His presence in KGB operations during this period has sometimes been confirmed, but not always did these cases involve tourists of the three nationalities—American, British, and Canadian—for which NOSENKO said his section was responsible:

1955: MALIA; American; Tourist; not confirmed.  
1956: BURGI; American; Tourist; confirmed.  
1957: German; Commercial/Tourist; not confirmed.  
1957: British; Tourists under investigation; confirmed.  
1957: Norwegian; Quasi-official visitor; not confirmed.  
1958: HARRIS; American; Tourist; confirmed.  
1958: KRAFT; American; Tourist; not confirmed.  
1959: DREW; American; Tourist; confirmed.  
1959: British; Tourist; not confirmed.  
1959: British; Tourist; not confirmed.  
1959: British; Resident; confirmed.  
1959: MERTENS; American; Tourist; confirmed.  
1959: BARRETT; American; Temporary Resident; not confirmed.  
Additional case: not confirmed.  
Additional case: confirmed.

This tabulation of 15 cases shows a higher number of operations involving American (six) and British (three) tourists than any other category, but it nevertheless intermingles citizens of other nationalities and having different status in the USSR. FRIPPEL and BARRETT were neither tourists nor, according to them and NOSENKO, used against tourists; WILLERFORD worked in Moscow from continental Europe; BARRETT and WILLERFORD worked in Moscow for several months. The tabulation also shows that, according to NOSENKO, his operational work was considerably more intensive in the time after he became Deputy Chief of the section than before, when as a senior case officer his administrative responsibilities presumably would have been far less demanding.

Although NOSENKO’s participation in five cases of the American Tourist Section is confirmed, his acknowledged role in five others of different varieties—with corroboration by other sources in two of them—raises doubts about whether he belonged to that section as a senior officer. The doubts are strengthened
