Of this project, but that seems unlikely from the Headquarters review of terminated agents witting of present KDFACTOR operational activities. A Soviet investigation of property ownership around the Soviet Embassy and their awareness that the Soviet Embassy was under photographic surveillance in the past could result in a Soviet investigation of the activities and contacts of KDABBEY-1, the owner of an apartment building and four houses close to the Soviet Embassy. It is doubtful that KDABBEY-1's activities, which do not inter-relate with the activities of the KDFACTOR agents, would in any way expose the KDFACTOR Project operational activities.

2. A brief history of the KDFACTOR Project:

The KDFACTOR Project had its origins in the LIJERSEY and LIPSTICK Projects, both active in the mid-1950's. In 1958, after the arrest of two LIPSTICK surveillance team members, it was decided to break off the more sensitive, uncompromised LIPSTICK assets manning and supporting two basehouses for photo surveillance of the Soviet Embassy. These assets were consolidated with one photo basehouse against the Soviet Embassy and one surveillance team from the LIJERSEY Project into a new project (LIEMPTY), which was approved on 16 January 1959. The LIEMPTY Project, renamed the KDFACTOR Project in 1971, consisted of three photo basehouses, two viewing the front of the Soviet Embassy (LIMITED and LILYRIC) and one viewing the rear garden of the Soviet Embassy (LICALLA), plus a mobile surveillance team (LIENTRAP) tied closely with the LIMITED basehouse, which was the radio control point for dispatch of the LIENTRAP.

In 1959 the LIENTRAP surveillance vehicle and two team members were arrested at the scene of a Cuban demonstration in Mexico City. A Station review of the security implications of this incident stated that it did not materially affect the security of the project nor expose any of the LIEMPTY basehouse operations. (Note: As the basehouse operations were compartmented, the only exposure possible from this incident would have been of the LIMITED basehouse, which is no longer in existence.)

The LIEMPTY Project operated substantially as above until the Warren Commission report was published in late 1964. In this publication was a picture of a person entering the Soviet Embassy taken from the LIMITED basehouse. The LIMITED photo basehouse was closed in September 1964, and all photographic surveillance was suspended as a security precaution. In January 1965 the LIMITED basehouse was relocated, and
