Motivation and Control

1. Estimate subject's motivation. (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such as “anti-communist”.) See previous PRQ-II. While not now targeted directly against Cuban affairs, subject undoubtedly continues in the intelligence field as a result of his former experience and the continued communist/totalitarian domination of Cuba. His opposition to such regimes and individuals associated makes for identity of interest and goals with BKTRUST.

2. Indicate what control, if any, exists over the subject. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control explain.) Subject's present position and physical presence in Venezuela would be untenable if his cooperation with BKTRUST became known to the Venezuelan government.

Cover

1. Cover used by subject and case officer in their meetings. Meetings are clandestine. Plausible denial is based on contact with CO in his official cover capacity.

2. Cover used by subject in obtaining his information and in contacting his informants. Subject accomplishes this in the course of his actual employment.

3. Indicate service for which subject thinks he (XX) is working. BKTRUST.

Intelligence Connections and Training

1. Explain subject's known past or present connection with any other intelligence service. Indicate the extent such connection is known overtly. Same as in previous PRQ-II. In addition, subject has been employed in Venezuelan DIGEPOL, and CIRASH.

2. List other individuals (agents, relatives, friends) who know of subject's present intelligence activities. Wife of CIFENCE-4; AMOTEX-54 (former AMIFF-1).

3. Explain any training subject has had in clandestine operations. Subject has had no formal training since being in Venezuela (1967). Records not available here for period when subject worked for Station WH/MIAMI.

Collaboration Potential

1. Indicate other foreign power subject would be most likely to collaborate with because of his ideology or past associations. Explain. Subject would not likely collaborate with any foreign power without permission from LNHARP.
