Subject: Valentin Loguinov

Date of information: March 22, 1969

Place acquired: French Club

Tennis: Val had come, probably thinking that my partner and I would complete our match with Val and Meche. I arrived, however, was out of town this weekend. Meche went for a ride by car later. Val and Gloria Pinto (the mother of Meche) were playing singles when I arrived. I had a singles tournament myself and did not join them until an hour later. He then formed a doubles group. I played with Pepe Pinto, and Val played with Gloria against us.

As is always the case, there is very little opportunity for conversation during a tennis match. Val did make a few stupid comments of an apolitical nature, but entirely harmless, such as, addressed to me, “Haven't you any control over your friends, the Chinese?”

I did not get a chance to confront Valentin about his offensive comments and how they jeopardized our friendship.

Val asked me if I had given any thought to his request the previous week. I could not believe that he was going to open the matter about his offering me money for “secrets.” Therefore, I was genuinely stupid about what request. He reminded me that he had spoken of a movie camera he wanted to sell and which I had stated that I thought I could dispose of for him through friends of mine, on consignment. I told him to bring me the camera and I would see what I could do.

I then told Val that there was something I had wanted to talk to him about anyway, and hoped we could get together sometime soon to do so. He stated that he would not come to the club tomorrow. He offered to take me to lunch sometime during the week.

This is not exactly what I had in mind for an informal and not too pleasant statement of my position about his approach to me. But I feel it can be used and will achieve the desired effect. Unfortunately, he might spend the next few days wondering if I am about to accept his approach.

Dmitri bitten by dog.

The main topic of conversation during the brief moments available between games or sets of tennis was Dmitri. Dmitri was bitten by the dog belonging to the Counselor of the Soviet Embassy. Apparently the bite was fairly deep in his right forearm and severed a large vein; hence there was much bleeding, probably an assist under the circumstances. The dog has been impounded to be watched for ten days, to determine whether Dmitri should undergo rabies shots or not. Val said that the dog had bitten four or five children already and that he, Val, would shoot the dog when the ten days are up.

It is conceivable that this is a point of friction now for Val between his Counselor and him.
