Section IX. Qualifications for Other Operations

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications possessed by subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations. Subject has been in Latin America for a number of years during which time he has numerous contacts and friends.

Section X. Commitments

1. If it is proposed to pay subject a regular salary, indicate the weekly amount. If payment to be made in exchange for commodities, subsidy or other method, specify and give details. Subject is not paid/salary by the Station.

2. Explain any promises, otherwise not covered herein, made to subject. None.

Section XI. CE and Security

1. Indicate the field agencies and field files with which subject's name has been checked and the results. Mexico City Station files have been checked regarding subject.

2. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by subject. None.

3. Indicate whether or not provisional operational approval or operational approval for subject's use was previously obtained. Operational Approval.

4. Date approval obtained: 6 June 1960.

5. Evaluate subject's character, reliability and security, citing evidence which may possibly characterize him. Subject is an exile Cuban businessman with a strong character who is highly respected in the Bogota business community. Subject is an independent thinker and not easily manipulated.

6. Explain any situation or indiscretion in which subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint. In 1960 Mexico Station CO Clyde K. Shryock and subject met several times in his business office. While at the office, a Cuban representative, Ricardo Vidal Dominguez (Dominguels), saw Shryock and on two occasions talked with the CO. At the time subject felt Vidal would not talk about these contacts to Cuban officials. This occurred ten years ago in Mexico and the Bogota Station does not believe this incident will adversely affect the subject's personal habits or present operational use of subject.

Section XII. Use of Liquor, Drugs, Gambling, Paramours

Subject not known to have any overt vices.
