1. Mr. John Lewis — Oakwood High School, Dayton 9, Ohio.  
2. Miss Thadosia Moran — Cazenorte R.D. 2, New York.  
3. Mr. Harry Schwartz — University of Syracuse, Syracuse, New York.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” by placing an “X” in the proper column.

27. May we indicate if made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc.? X.

28. Are you a citizen of, or do you owe allegiance to, the United States? X.

27. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party, U.S., or any Communist organization? X.

28. Are you now or have you ever been a member of a Fascist organization? X.

29. Are you now or have you been a member of any organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government, or of an organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which has adopted a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States or of any state government? Show the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means.

If your answer to question 27, 28, or 29 above is “Yes,” state in Item 39 the names of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups, or combinations of persons and dates of membership. Give complete details of your activities therein and make any explanation you desire regarding your membership or activities therein.

30. Since your 16th birthday, have you ever been arrested, indicted, or summoned into court as a defendant in a criminal proceeding, or committed, fined, imprisoned, or placed on probation, or have you been ordered to deposit bail or collateral for the violation of any law, police regulation, or ordinance, excluding minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $125 or less was imposed? X.

If your answer is “Yes,” list all such cases under Item 39 below. Give in each case (1) the date, (2) the nature of the offense or violation, (3) the name and location of the court, (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If appointed, your fingerprints will be taken.

31. Show if, according to the requirements for a job, or unsatisfactory role, from any position. X.

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 39 the name and address of employer, date, and reason in each case.

32. Had you ever been barred by the U.S. Civil Service Commission or by a law-enforcement officer from accepting a civil service appointment? X.

If your answer is “Yes,” give date of and reasons for such barred act. Is it any disbarment in any other? If yes, give complete details in Item 39.

33. Have you any physical marching...
