Is the surplus point, the real price you're getting is not bad as far as the general's pocket. But the general's pocket also gives the difference between the two prices in the case of the hypodermic M-16 on each rifle.

The staple of the private arms trade is the aneroid battery, or the Old Red Bull. They are hardly perceptible items of caviar which sell steadily everywhere from the Congo to C Section Banda. There is, for example, the 20mm automatic carbine, priced anywhere from $350 to $750. Delivery price will depend on condition, availability, accessibility of ammunition and shipment difficulties (open or clandestine).

Other longtime favorites are the Browning Automatic Rifle (from $95 to $300); the big-bang M1 Garand rifle ($10 to $150); the Enfield No. 1, popular because of its low price (around $25); the Madsen .50 cal. machine gun ($200 to $500); the infantryman's Big Daddy: the .50 cal. Browning machine gun ($100 to $1,000), and the 57mm recoilless rifle, which will convert a launch into a warship at close range and in the jungle can make a guerrilla platoon's firepower equal to that of the regulars.

But it is the modern, hard-to-get weapons, kept in short supply by political considerations, which are in greatest demand. The U.S.-developed M-79 grenade launcher, which looks and handles like a stout, single-barrel shotgun but fires a 40mm grenade shell or bazooka rocket with rifle-like accuracy, commands up to $1,700, ammo extra. There is great interest in the science-fictional MBA rocket guns which fire small, self-guided ballistic missiles at twice the velocity of the blockbuster-magnum cartridges—and without explosion or recoil. The experimental Fekete mines are firing high bombs, which explode with a cloudiness of hundreds of pellets, are covered by militiamen and freedom fighters alike, as are the fantastic new image-intensifying and heat-

(above) a C-48, one of five to be supplied by the government in time to fire your guns if they were the first one to arrive.

A C-48, one of five to be supplied by the government in time to fire your guns if they were the first one to arrive...

aide: superstogys, which let the rifleman see and shoot as well at night as at dawn.

This curious mixture of old and new weapons is considered, in the personnel of the successful M-16. For all these package tests in various laboratories, their personal experience tends to be unusually old-fashioned. Perhaps because of an inner identification with adventurer types of a bygone past, they tend to reflect charisma, eccentric turn-of-the-century manners. This is true even of such old-style pistol-packing characters as Rolando Masferrer (Masferter), who is often called the Caribbean's most feared gangland figure. An astonishingly literate, brilliant, erudite Cuban who was raised in the United States and graduated at the head of his law school class, Masferrer has been associated with violence since his first taste of it at 19, in the Spanish Civil War. He left half his left foot in Spain, but came out of the hospital an agon of the International Brigade and for years afterward lived the life of an international Communist Party enforcer...

After World War II, Masferrer swung to the right and became a newspaper tycoon, senator, cattle magnate and overlord of the Caribbean's biggest gang of gunmen. Now living in the United States, he is a colorful demonstration of the mysterious ways of munitions manipulation. While officially restricted to residence in the State of New York, he managed to equip, in Miami, a 300-man Haitian invasion army with everything from infantry boots to a B-25 bomber. Now under indictment for this "stunt," Masferrer is awaiting trial in the Miami federal court.

The last time the U.S. government tried to convict him on similar charges, he got the case thrown out of court—much like Hawke—by pointing out that "I wasn't doing anything the government was not doing, too."

Other hazards in the trade can be more worrying. Since the Korean War, at least 20, and possibly twice as many, M-M's have been mangled. The "Red Hand," a pro-Fascist French right-wing organization, is believed to have killed ten paratroopers.
