Personal Record Questionnaire, Part II — Operational Information.

Instructions to Case Officer.

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of PB 10-215, paragraphs 6a, B, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in PB 10-215.

3. Three (3) completed copies of PRQ part I, including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible, and two (2) completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ format in two (2) copies.

5. Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write “NA.” If additional space required for item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

1. Crypto nym. 2. Pseudonym. T/N: Francisco Antonio BARTES Claramy.

Section I — Contact and Development.

1. Indicate how, when, where, why, and by whom subject was first contacted or developed.

Subject first considered in JNATC project December 1960 for possible F1/P8 operations primarily against transportation targets in Camagüey and Oriente Provinces. POA requested by administrative case officer, Joseph V. Colo. It was granted 30 January 1960 and cryptonym assigned was AMSPENC/1.

Subject submitted job application form to Roberto Medell, principal agent, WITHRUSH, Miami, Florida, on 3 May 1965 for the purpose of consideration as a pilot in the WITRUSH Project.

2. Indicate whether subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Subject could be turned over to any responsible one officer, however, a mature, politically inclined one officer would probably have more successful handling Subject. He has long experience in management of transportation and agriculture enterprises. He is well educated and literate in English Spanish and English.

3. List other case officers who have handled subject or whom he knows or has seen; give names by which they have been known.

File does not show that Subject personally knew his case officer.
