Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During the period under review, Subject managed to gain full-time employment as a senior executive of an HBSPRITE government-subsidized scientific publication at a time of economic slowdown when jobs were not easy to get. He did this without help from Headquarters or the station. Such an achievement is a tribute to Subject's fluency in French, his ability to write, his general scientific know-how, and his good business sense. Over half of his salary therefore is now paid by this company. In converting to full-time employment, a major adjustment, Subject's contribution to station operations in the MHHARSH and TPFAST fields against which he is targeted temporarily decreased somewhat. Subject continued, however, to maintain contact with three local MHHARSH officials and initiated contact with three others. He also continued to search for new leads to personalities in the priority areas assigned to him. Subject has the capability to call on local scientists or technicians of just about any nationality, with the possible exception of TPFAST citizens. He has used this near-unique potential well.

Subject has had occasional difficulty switching from “professional” or intellectual subjects in his development of MHHARSH personalities or access prospects to more down-to-earth interests necessary.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 9 June 1971. Signature of employee: /s/ Thomas B. CASASIN.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 18 months. Official title of supervisor: Handling Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Francis S. Sherry.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: The Station submitted comments on Subject officer recently in OPFT-16549 (8 April 1971), to which we should add that Subject has, largely on his own merits, acquired a solid and potentially highly useful cover employment. However, this new employment will demand a very substantial amount of time and energy from Subject, and the unanswerable question at the moment relates to his availability for Organizational tasks. We shall need additional time and careful working with this officer to determine the answer, since the fiscal outlay from the Organization to support his continued stay in Paris is still quite.

Date: 24 May 1971. Official title of reviewing official: RCS. Typed or printed name and signature: HUGH MONTGOMERY.
