Personnel Evaluation Report.

Items 1 through 6 will be completed by Administrative or Personnel Officer.

1. Name: MORE, James W.  
2. Grade: GS-13, Intelligence Officer.  
4. Office: Operations. Staff or Division: Contact. Branch: Houston Office. Field station: Houston, Texas.  
5. Period covered by report: From 11/6/51 to 11/5/52.  
6. Type of report: Annual.

Items 7 through 10 will be completed by the person evaluated.

7. List your major duties in approximate order of importance, with a brief description of each. Quit minor duties.

1. I contact high-level officials of American business concerns, scientists, national and reliable sources or organizations to establish sources of intelligence information.

2. I handle general work in Houston, with emphasis on shipping, contracting activities, the University of Houston and import-export traders. In addition I am assigned full coverage of our work in Ft. Worth, Waxo, Abilene and part coverage of Dallas which necessitates approximately two field trips a month.

3. Upon instructions of the Chief of the Houston office, handle certain special and sensitive operational projects originated by other branches of the Agency.

4. During occasions when the Chief and certain other Contact Specialists are out of the office, have answered telephones to Washington and handled similar matters that would be handled by the Chief if he were in the office.

8. List courses of instruction completed during report period. None.

9. In what type of work are you primarily interested? Collection of foreign intelligence from domestic sources.

If different from your present job, explain your qualifications (aptitude, knowledge, skills).

10. Date: 31 December 1952. J. Walton Mory, signature.

Items 11 through 18 will be completed by Supervisor.

11. Briefly describe this person's performance on the major duties listed under Item 7 above.

This officer is extremely capable and competent in carrying out his primary mission of establishing and exploiting sources of foreign positive intelligence information. He is resourceful and exercises exceptional judgment and tact in relations with contracts. He is cooperative and dependable and has the necessary ability to accurately report collected information. He creates an excellent impression with top company officials which creates a high regard not only for the Houston Field Office but the agency as
