To bring his relationship with TANG to a point that LOG could meet TANG in a friendly, unofficial manner. LOG concluded that for such a job he was willing to pay, in terms of thousands of dollars. After the dust of verbiage settled, LOG told S that he should try to feel out TANG as to whether he was willing to speak about the military strength of Red China. LOG explained to S that presently the Soviets were completely in the dark as to the military strength and operational organization of the Red Chinese Army; they had no way of acquiring the information because even if they had friends in Red China, none of them dared to maintain contact with Soviet officials or officials of other Socialist countries known to be on the Soviet side. Nationalist China had many spies in Red China, and they were well informed on all aspects of developments in Red China. It was possible that TANG would be willing to make arrangements with his government for an exchange of information, especially military information, between the USSR and the CCP of China, and this would be beneficial to the USSR and the USA. LOG went on to tell S that he should think in terms of using RUDIAN to arrange a meeting with TANG outside his embassy, whether at a party or whatever might be needed. The expenses would be taken care of by LOG, because money was no problem.

7. Then LOG stated that S should arrange something to enable LOG to meet RUDIAN in a small, family-type circle. S was caught by surprise and told LOG that he had told him that he and RUDIAN were quite often seeing each other. LOG stated that he knew RUDIAN well and had been with RUDIAN on many occasions at receptions and other formal social functions, but he had never had an opportunity to be with RUDIAN in friendly and informal circumstances. S commented that the only problem he found in trying to make such an arrangement was the fact that RUDIAN often, sometimes even twice in a week, dropped in to see S at his (Josephine's) apartment, but he never announced his visits more than an hour or two before he came.

8. LOG asked S what happened to the U.S. Embassy phone directory; did the girl, a friend of S, return? S answered that he did not have the slightest idea what was going on because, in his condition of health, he did not even go to check whether the girl had returned.

9. LOG was proposing that they meet in the course of the next week, but S told him that he felt they were meeting too often and, in view ...
