Fitness Report.

Section A: General Information.

1. Employee number: 006198.  
2. Name: HI GREN, Lee H.  
3. Date of birth: 12/01/23. Sex: M. Grade: 13 DAA.  
6. Office/Division/Department of assignment(s), current location to code: DDO/CJ/R&A/E Hqs % HQB. DP.  
7. Official position title: Operations Officer Ch.  
11. Type of appointment: Other (spec.): Temporary X; Annual; Recruited.  
12. Type of report: Special.  
13. Reporting period: 1 October 1974–30 September 1975; 31 October 1975.

Section B: Qualifications Update.

If Qualifications Update Form is being submitted with changes, and is attached to this report, place the word “Yes” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “No” in the box at right.

Section C: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is adequate in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Prominent: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as towart special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

1. Manages a branch composed of six staff officers and nine contract personnel. Rating: P.  
2. Supervises the work of three Soviet intelligence defectors and their six contract employees. Rating: P.  
3. Acts as secretariat for an international research and analysis complex. Rating: S.  
4. Conducts counterintelligence research and analysis. Rating: P.  
5. Rating: P.  
6. Rating: P.  
7. Rating: P.  
8. Rating: P.
