Mental and moral condition of the people. This clearly indicates his personal opposition to the holding of elections at such intervals, since the woman's vote constituted an independent [unclear] and he was not in favor of conducting such elections while there was still time (Article 29). It seems clear that he meant to say that to hold elections no more than a pass of strength for the winning party as for the Constituents; that it is impossible to believe the electors could be independent, although the party in taking its place so far has every reason to have everything in its favor; and that the election should be held in February.

18. Both these and other critical remarks about the Tar, “Svis,” for not being chosen enough in his position of being one of the departmental council members, are groundless suppositions, which, particularly the procurement of false social supplies, thoroughly disqualifies him for his personal charge of having the active participation in resistance activities that joined on, but did not break away from the old habit of theelding government fono-ommunication.

19. Further described administrative leaders, first generation of the old administration—along with the great majority of higher officials at the Toulon hospital base,

20. According to Allese, the Toulon edition of Pougo-Midi, the roundel paper published in Parisville, has a daily circulation of 17,000 and a Sunday circulation of 15,000.

21. Temporary publications in Toulon: The Toulon section of the TIP was formed about one month ago. The officers are M. Labrosse, president; J. Joulian, attorney-at-law; P. Corrier, secretary; M. Fauvel, editor-in-chief; A. Devolontal, secretary of the Tar. In the process of organization, Labrosse has to have it organized before the end of the year. He adds that membership in the Toulon section of 1,000—but this appears to be an exaggeration. Labrosse stated last week the Toulon edition of the Christian Revue must appear, if necessary, at Versailles, has a local circulation of 2,000. This Toulon edition was started too late.

22. The Union crimeanique et sociale (UJS) in the women's journal of the “Re” at Toulon. An issue in March, the issue in Toulon is pending; serious efforts to capture the women's votes. A series of three free weekly political lectures, starting 13 December 1946, has been organized by the UCS.

23. Medical-scientist Party. It is universally stated that the radical socialists are practically absent as a public force in the Tar. To party headquarters can be mentioned only the Toulon branch (from this brief newspaper announcement, no sign of any medical-socialist activity was discovered).

24. ON and IM, Pathe, of the PS, is optimistic over the possibility of fusion between the “R” and the “M” in the Tar model once the agreement just reached between the two groups in the departure out of the Card. On the other hand, rigs, e., of the “I” points out that real members of his organization are significant when uniting with the “M,” because they see in this an interest.

Paris mental and moral condition of the women in the city

The mental and moral condition of the women in the city of Paris is a problem that demands immediate action. But what we need is not simply information, nor even education; we need, above all, some practical suggestions for the improvement of their conditions. The aim of the present article is to show how the existing conditions may be changed, and to indicate the way in which this can be done. We shall begin our considerations by referring to the questions raised by the question of the suffrage.

The current situation. What are the problems? What are the main features? What are the consequences? What can be done?

I. The current situation

In France, the women's right to vote was introduced in 1918, exactly a half century after the introduction of universal suffrage. Since that date, many laws have been passed and many reforms made, but the status of the woman has not improved, and the right to vote remains almost empty. This is particularly visible in the case of Paris, where, at the beginning of the twenty-first century, the number of women in Parliament was lower than in 1870. During the same period, the number of elected women in the State Assembly was constant at four. Up to 1918, there were no elected women in the General Council of the Department of Seine-et-Marne, and only two in the
