Dispatch. To: Chief, WH Division. From: Chief of Station, Mexico City. Subject: LIFEAT Progress Report for July 1962. Action Required. References.

Processing: Basic infileing, actual X. None of files required. Only needed meanings IFN can be obtained. Abstract. Disturbance, actual PS. Desensitized: BES, HYD, -PI, ARD.

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, Section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1):

A. Exploitation of Leads

(1) LIFEAT/SOVIET LIFEAT coverage in this area was concentrated on known RIS officers: Vladimir G. NOVIKOV and Aleksandr G. SIDOROV. The most rewarding lead from this coverage during July was that SIDOROV would be absent with his entire family from his apartment for nearly two months, and more importantly, that no one would be continuously watching the apartment during that time. Based on this information, the Station has been able to make the necessary preparations for establishing technical surveillance of this apartment. LIFEAT coverage of the Soviet Bulletin Office, in addition to the above coverages, has provided information on the daily activities of individual Soviet officials assigned to Mexico, including collection of travel and biographical data.

(2) LIFEAT/POLISH LIFEAT coverage has been vital to the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation. LIFEAT has even provided live-monitoring of an international call to BECHICK from a former admirer. Also in the Polish area, LIFEAT provided names of Polish Embassy contacts who were invited to Polish national holiday celebrations at the Polish Embassy, as well as information concerning the impending arrival of the new Polish Ambassador.

(3) LIFEAT/YUGOSLAV. In the Station's increased operations against this target, basic biographical, personnel assignment, and personnel daily activity information is essential. LIFEAT has been providing just this type information since coverage commenced in May.

Continued. Record copy. Cross reference to. Remove from Project C. Classification: JOB e1-75177. Fax: 58. Fold. Date typed: 21 August 1952. Dispatch symbol and number: HMMV-19641; 19641-HMMV-1922. Headquarters file number: 50-6-32/3.
