g. Compromise of KRAFT (1958)

Nosenko's information: Virgil KRAFT, a clergyman from the Chicago area, visited the Soviet Union as a tourist in 1957 or 1958, and Nosenko was assigned to be the responsible case officer. During an earlier trip to the USSR, the KGB had learned, KRAFT had been intimate with a Soviet woman. Nosenko arranged for her to come to Moscow from Kiev, where she was living in 1957 or 1958, in order to compromise KRAFT. Although his wife was accompanying him in Moscow, KRAFT and the Soviet woman were intimate in the latter's room in the Grand Hotel. Nosenko was present at the time supervising the operation. Photographs were taken. Then militants broke into the room, finding KRAFT and the woman in the nude; a recruitment approach was then made by DUBAS, the Chief of the Tourist Department. (Nosenko had been the case officer and had handled the operation thus far, but he took no part in the confrontation or recruitment approach “because DUBAS wanted it for himself.”) Although the recruitment was not firm, KRAFT and DUBAS “had an agreement” that nothing would be done about the compromise if KRAFT did not criticize the Soviet Union in lectures about his trip there which he was to give in the United States. DUBAS again contacted KRAFT when he came to Moscow in 1963, and after this his file was turned over to the First Chief Directorate. Nosenko recalled that the First Chief Directorate “said that KRAFT was not in a good region of the United States. And also it smelled like he had spoken of the approach made to him.” Therefore, Nosenko concluded, he probably had not been contacted in the United States.

Investigation results:

h. Recruitment of DREW (1959)

Nosenko's information: George DREW, an American who visited the Soviet Union in the spring of 1959, had originally been the responsibility of V.M. IVANOV, a case officer of the section dealing with American and Canadian tourists. By chance, however, DREW became involved with Nosenko's homosexual agents VOLKOV and YEFREMOV (see Part V.D.2), and they reported this to Nosenko, then the deputy chief of the section. Nosenko and IVANOV discussed the case with DUBAS and possibly GUSKOV, the section chief, and Nosenko flew alone to Leningrad to make the approach. (IVANOV was not considered to be sufficiently experienced and his English was not good.) Nosenko arranged for DREW to be compromised in a Leningrad hotel room with a homosexual agent of the local KGB handled by a Leningrad officer, (fnu) PERELETOV. Using the name “Mr. SERGEYEV,” Nosenko
