It may be well to recall that at the Conference in Punta del Este, the importance of the transformation of the people in the development process of underdeveloped countries was emphasized.

All this leads one to consider the protection and preservation of the infrastructure works, the urgency of which cannot be underestimated. Electric power, roads, bridges, urbanism, irrigation and drainage systems, etc., are the factors that the contemplated development calls for its full realization.

Of course, the Haitian state has always owed the infrastructure equipment of the country. However, the investments—very important at times—to this end have been made without an overall plan, not with a statistical and rational estimate of the country's needs, but with such averages in execution that the general problem of the country's basic equipment is still a matter for consideration.

In Haiti, the national capital comprises broadly the infrastructure equipment and the production equipment, as a result of the fact that our social and economic system lacks a natural repartition of the functions as exists in the advanced countries, where the state takes care of the infrastructure equipment while private enterprise engages in production. The obligation for the state to devote its activities to both the infrastructure and production problems, which private initiative cannot assume due to failure or lack of experience, compels said state to build proper methods and means to accelerate the formation of the national capital through the adequate and honest exploitation of our financial resources.

To this end, we propose to build a program including the execution of specific projects already studied and for which financing can be obtained from abroad.

A. Primary Facilities:

1. Hydro-Electric Plant at Poligre — 30,000,000.
2. Electrification of the Southern Peninsula—Sud Mathurine, Sud du Baril, and others — 9,000,000.
3. Wharf and Airport—Port-au-Prince — 6,000,000.
4. Wharf and Power Facilities in the Southern Peninsula — 3,000,000.
5. Market—Port-au-Prince — 1,500,000.
6. Telecommunication system — 4,000,000.
7. Sewerage system—Port-au-Prince — 1,500,000.
8. Port-au-Prince–G-fou (156 km); Dufort-Jacobs (56 km) road — 8,000,000.
9. Along the coast, Milagroне–Jérémie — 4,000,000.
