July 26, 1945

The following report is one of the first full attacks on the recent “Balloon Operation” in Czechoslovakia. The text was read over Radio Prague on July 18, 1945:

We are going to read to you now an article from today’s Rudé Právo (Níce Pravo).

The article is called “An Action Doomed to Failure.” That is to say, the peace policy of the Soviet Union and of all the countries of the world of peace, the conviction that a war can be prevented only through the world. Naturally, this evolution creates a great concern with those for whom the situation is a source of irremovable gain and a luxurious life.

Of course, the warmongers do their best to put obstacles in the way which leads toward the weakening of international tension. In particular, the part of the propagandists and saboteurs of the peace effort was given to Syngman Rhee. In Germany, scores were made from the ranks of Nazi war “Binnen der Deutschen Demokratischen Republik.” And after the failure of this much-berated campaign, there comes the hypocritical and denational offer to help the population of the DOK, which was made for obvious preoccupations, as was in fact admitted by the Western bourgeois press.

Into this chain of provocations, which are aimed against the strengthening of peace, there also belongs the American propaganda action which was started in the last days in western Germany against Czechoslovakia. In a similar way to that in which two years ago the ill-famed “Crusaders for Freedom” were doing it, today again balloons dispersing inflammatory leaflets over our territory are being sent from the Bavarian side.

The Munich transmitter Free Europe, financed by PRA and similar “institutions,” speaks, presumably, of the propaganda balloon action, which allegedly is the biggest action of this kind ever attempted and for the direction of which specialists came to Western Germany from America.

We can indeed certify that the balloon specialists did not spare the leaflets. In the first two days, tens and hundreds of thousands of those leaflets were with our police and our national committees, where they were being brought by our citizens after having been discovered. The farmer Hajek (Hajek) from Dolnovec, district of Česky Brod (Cheky Brod), brought an entire parcel of leaflets which came down in one piece. Josef Körincik from Hlohle brought an entire balloon which fell down. The leaflets are being brought by the workers of the Vladimir Lenin Works, as well as by workers from other factories, farmers, railwaymen, and children. Yet even if the balloon action was not only four times bigger—as Free Europe says—but a hundred times bigger than the Crusader action of 1943, it will bring to its initiators the very opposite of what they had in mind.
