A. QRLBONY/I (Q) gives the convincing impression that he is at home in his new work. He responds well to suggestions and instructions, adds suggestions of his own for improving the plan—an indication that he wishes to please. In the beginning he showed a tendency to raise minor objections involving personal material problems (e.g., inconvenience to family life or a long TDY), but less of this was remarked as he came to realize that requirements were to be reasonable and he was to be treated as a human being with his own problems.

He has stated that he would not continue his present involvement with target personalities and institutions if it were not that we wish him to; i.e., his own inclination would be to withdraw from the political fringe. Rodigast feels that this is consistent with his background, which was not a party career; in his youth he was willfully apolitical and hostile to the “movement”; later he was involved in opposing party people in his New York work; in Paris he did not get along with his party friends (the affair of the forged letter) and, of course, broke with the magazine crowd there.

He seems to be genuinely committed to working against enemies of CDYKE, ready to accept even deeper commitment; he has expressed no reservations as to what he will do. He does not object to reporting on old friends, fellow FBPRIMARS, et al. He raised no objection to PLUTER or using s/w techniques, which he took with him on a trip to what was then a very hostile area, where he had known enemies and where there was a recent history of dealing roughly with outsiders. When orders conflict with personal desires—for example, when he planned to spend a weekend in a city he enjoys but was told he should proceed immediately to his next stopping place—he obeys without hesitation.

The foregoing is a collection of miscellaneous facts, but taken together they paint the portrait of a promising agent, both in terms of motivations and abilities.

B. Rodigast’s knowledge of Q’s attitude in the months prior to recruitment (June 1965) is limited. Rodigast has the impression Q had simply reached the end of his rope—he had nowhere to go. He had earlier decided that he would like to work for or at least cooperate with ODYOKE, although earlier attempts to make contact met with no success. The humane treatment received at the hands of his recruiter and the subsequent sympathetic handling by his case officer undoubtedly convinced him that he had not made a mistake.

The material factor is not to be underestimated. The demoralizing position of living on his wife and, worse, on her family, must have lowered his resistance to any possible alternative. Rodigast simply does not know how Q might have responded to a reasonable offer from enemies of ODYKE (ODYOKE) at that point. The prospect of immediate engagement at a decent wage may have been decisive.

Since that time, Rodigast feels Q’s motivation has been reinforced and perhaps considerably altered: he has been asked to do obviously necessary tasks, and so he can feel he is needed by someone; he has been given reasonable instructions on how to accomplish them; he sees that others are concerned for his personal safety and material well-being. Rodigast has taken pains to avoid giving the impression that there was any confusion or error or difference of viewpoint in running the project, even at a time when there were plenty of all three; such problems were

ATT-1 OFLA-3627

201-306052
