Field Information Report.

Grading of source: A. Completely reliable; B. Usually reliable; C. Fairly reliable; D. Not usually reliable; E. Not reliable (applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence); F. Reliability cannot be judged (applied to untested or insufficiently tested sources).

Appraisal of content: 1. Convinced by other independent and reliable sources. 2. Probably true. 3. Possibly true. 4. Doubtful. 5. Probably false. 6. Cannot be judged.

Country: Mexico.

Subject: Efforts on behalf of Victor Rico Galan by friends.

Report No.: HMM-10,019.

Date of report: 18 August 1968.

No. pages: 2.

Date of info: 12–17 August 1968.

Place and date acquired: Mexico, Mexico City (18 August 1968).

This is unevaluated information. Source grew from the appearance of content in tentative.

Source: Mexican intellectual who is a personal friend of Victor Rico Galan, with whom he disagrees politically. Source has reported infrequently on Rico Galan's activities. The reported information was obtained both from Mrs. Rico Galan and from Francisco Martinez de la Vega.

1. According to Francisco Martinez de la Vega of the magazine Siempre, Colonel Eduardo Estrada Ojeda at Police Headquarters, where Victor Rico Galan and others were being held after their arrest on charges of subversion, had been instructed to permit packages from Mrs. Rico Galan to be delivered to her husband.

2. Elena Garro, writer, told Mrs. Rico Galan that she was going to speak to Minister of Interior Luis Echeverría to try to get him to ensure that Rico Galan would not be handled by the police during the interrogation.

3. Mrs. Garro expressed a skepticism about the whole affair, saying that it was a farce and that she believed that many of those arrested with Victor had been paid to make the statements that they had.

Source Comment: On 17 August Francisco Galindo Ochoa, Press Secretary in the Presidency, complimented Martinez de la Vega on the place on Rico Galan's arrest which appeared in the most recent issue of Siempre.

Field Comment: A short, unnamed article titled New Conspiracy? appeared on page 8 of Siempre. It presented briefly an account of the arrest of end charges against Rico Galan; took a swipe at what it termed the periodic paroxysms of patriotism which seize the Mexican people; and then went on to suggest that

Conclusion.
