Personal History Statement.

Instructions:

1. Answer all questions completely or check the appropriate box. If a question is not applicable, write “N/A.” Write “Unknown” only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be determined from personal records. Use blank space at the end of the form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2. Type, print, or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful completion of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

Section I: General Personal and Physical Data.

1. Full name (last name first): FLORES, Daniel.  
2. Age: 26.  
3. Weight: 51 3"; 165 pds.  
4. Type of eyes: Black.  
8. Current phone no.  
9. Color of hair: Dark. Height: Medium.  
10. Sex (time and location): Right cheek, one-half inch scar; left upper lip, one-quarter inch scar; born 1967 received flyingoot call.  
11. Other distinguishing physical features.  
12. Current address (no., street, city, state and country): None.  
13. Current phone no.: 26-8322.  
14. Office phone no. & ext.: None.  
15. Legal residence state (if foreign): Washington, District of Columbia.  
16. Nicknames: Dan.  
17. Indicate circumstances, including length of time under which you have ever used these names: Personal acquaintances—twelve years.  
18. If legal change, give particulars (name and by what authority): N/A.

Section II: Position Data.

1. Indicate the type of work or position for which you are applying: Any phase of communications; administration; or personnel work.

2. Indicate the lowest annual entrance salary you will accept. You will not be considered for any position with a lower entrance salary: $4,250.00. I’m very likely.

3. Date available for employment.

4. Indicate your willingness to accept assignment in the following locations. Check (X) each applicable item: Occupationally. Frequently. Constantly. Other.
