Office of Personnel.

Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and [REDACTED] to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

This officer is willing, and has become much more effective and sure of himself during the past year. He is an excellent photographer and this will further increase his increasing resourcefulness in support of operations, has resulted in some unusually good work of the op's support type.

This officer has a pleasant personality, is well liked, gets along well with his fellow employees, works overtime without question, and is well adjusted to overseas life in Mexico. The Station is very pleased to have him for another tour as he is most definitely a part of our operational capabilities.

This officer was commended by COS, Mexico in January 1961 and a review of this file should include a review of HMMT-1798 dated 12 January 1961.

Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 13 September 1961. Signature of Employee: /s/ Robert M. Zamberardi.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 12 months.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days: Other (Specify).

Date: 13 September 1961. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ in pseudo.

By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official
