00-8-321/1068-68

7. Charles and several associates now propose to reorganize the European Commercial & Bailiwick, formerly his private 公益, into a corporate entity and to incorporate it in the US. The associates plan to raise US $500 thousand for this new corporation. This sum will be separate from the US $500 thousand and will serve to put the new banking corporation into business. Commercial help and at least some of the six directors of the corporation will be US citizens. Two of the directors will be Charles himself and Louis Lovett.

8. President Devaloper (Duvalier) is reportedly set to be transferred to the new venture and is anxious to see it succeed. He has finally realized that the company situation in Baiti (Haiti) has deteriorated so badly during the past 18 months that he must do something before total bankruptcy occurs. Accordingly, President Devaloper (Duvalier) wants to improve his “image” in the eyes of the outside world, particularly in the US, and by doing so begins to attract investors and business activities from outside Baiti (Haiti). It is generally agreed that the move, Incorporated, Associates Commercial & Baiti (Haiti), will hold extract's each activity to Baiti (Haiti) and is therefore permitting Charles to proceed.

9. Collector's Note: 00-8-321/1068-68 transferred a possible reorganization in the Haitian government. This reorganization, sponsored by Devaloper (Duvalier), would place Devaloper (Duvalier) on the elevated plane of spiritual advice and father of the people and would, on the surface, at least, prove very to a president the day-by-day management of Haitian government affairs. Various names have been suggested for the position of president under the possible new system. The name of Louis-Albert Prud'ebard has recently been mentioned frequently in Baiti (Haiti) as the possible new president under the proposed reorganization of the government. Prud'ebard is a ex-Mexican of Devaloper (Duvalier) and lives in Baiti (Haiti). He is in charge of the government. Some say that Devaloper (Duvalier) listens to Fernandez and is, to a degree, influenced by him. I doubt this very strongly.
