Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties

Directions:

a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties per office or position during a specified period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty. Do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only.

d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with another person of the same rank at a similar level of responsibility. May 12 to 23, PH 56.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are:

Oral briefing; knows and uses area knowledge; makes publications; prepares summaries; translates German; debriefing sources; keeps books; drives truck; maintains air conditioning; evaluates significance of data; giving lectures; develops new programs; conducting seminars; analyzes industrial reports; writing technical reports; manages files; conducting external liaison; operates radio; typing; coordinates with other offices; taking dictation; writes regulations; supervising; preserves correspondence.

g. For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive Rating Number:

1 — Incompetent in the performance of this duty.
2 — Barely adequate in the performance of this duty.
3 — Performs this duty acceptably.
4 — Performs this duty in a competent manner.
5 — Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.
6 — Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.
7 — Exceeds anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Specific Duty No. 1. Rating number 6: Obtaining the effective support of non-governmental sources and contacts in his area. Rating number 6.
