It has two sub-delegations: one in Maracaibo, a northern city of Venezuela, under the direction of Roberto Frey; another in Barquisimeto (Baranque'simeto), under the direction of Ricardo Nouriguez.

At the central office of the D.R.S. delegation in Venezuela, under the direction of Rafael Trejo, general delegate of the O.B.S. in Venezuela, Jose Miguel González Florentte, Lorenzo Martín, Joaquín Perez, and Luis Boza are actually working. In Caracas, the D.R.S. transmits a daily radio broadcast which lasts for 30 minutes. Also in Maracaibo, the D.R.S. transmits a radio broadcast which holds great popularity. It is interesting to point out, as proof of the advantageous effects of this broadcast, that a group of action men of the cooperative party tried to burn with Molotov bombs the radio station which transmits the broadcast.

The labor accomplished by the D.R.S. in the student field is of vital importance. At present, the delegation has the possibility of moving enough forces at a definitive moment to counteract Communist action inside the University, which is totally controlled by Communists.

We can point out as highly important the so-called “personality-building courses,” which were created by the members of the D.R.S. and which are carried through today due to intimate cooperation among the D.R.S., the government, the Christian Social Party, and ecclesiastical hierarchies. Each of these courses lasts for approximately one week and is generally given on a farm. The attendants are almost always no more than 35 and are subjected during one week to strong military discipline and intensive instruction which lasts until night, ending the activities of the day with a general assembly in which the results attained during the day are discussed. I had the opportunity to assist personally at one of these courses, which was being given by Ricardo Nouriguez, of the D.R.S. delegation at Maracaibo, on a farm given by the Venezuelan government for such purpose. Up to the present, 1,800 Venezuelan students have received these courses and, certainly, their effects have greatly influenced the consolidation of the democratic system in Venezuela.

We could now tell of the many other activities of the delegation, but that would be unnecessary. That is why we have only pointed out the most important.

E. Deficiencies

Generally, we could assert that the balance maintained by the D.R.S. delegation in Venezuela on this aspect cannot be more positive. Excepting the logical and natural deficiencies in the labor force, greatly due to the limitations, the D.R.S. delegation in Venezuela does not have any deficiencies of importance. On the other hand, the delegation in Venezuela presented to us a complaint which, as also made by the rest of the delegations, will be explained further on. It is that the delegation has been on several occasions under emotional pressures motivated by the large series of time it has gone through.
