Declaration of Appointee.

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Answer all questions. Any false statement in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Impersonation is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

Present address: street and number, city and State. Date of birth. Place of birth: city or town and State or country. In case of emergency, please notify: E. H. Hunt. Relationship: Father. Street and number, city and State: 30 Willet St., all angles, N.Y. Telephone No.: 26218.

4. Does the United States Government employ, in a civilian capacity, any relative of yours, either by blood or marriage, with whom you live or have lived within the past 12 months? Yes. No.

If so, for each such relative fill in the blanks below. If additional space is necessary, complete under Item 10.

Name. Post office address (give street number, if any). Positions, temporary or not. Department or agency in which employed. Relationship. Married. Single.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing “X” in proper column.

1. Are you a citizen of or do you owe all liability to the United States?

2. Are you an official or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality?

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 10.

3. Do you receive any annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service?

If your answer is “No,” give in Item 10 reason for retirement, that is, age, optional disability, or by reason of voluntary or involuntary separation after 5 years’ service; amount of retirement pay, and under what retirement act; and rating, if retired from military or naval service.

4. Since you filed application resulting in this appointment, have you been discharged or forced to resign, for misconduct or unsatisfactory service, from any position?

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 10 the name and address of employer, date and reason in each case.

5. Have you been arrested, not including traffic violations for which you were fined or less, or committed on a penalty of 120 or less since you filed.
