The father contracts the obligation of absolutely abstaining from calling on the mother's address, so that she may carry on her life freely without neglecting her children.

10. While the voluntary divorce is being processed, the mother and children will live at and, as above stated, to satisfy their needs, the father will make the first monthly payment of $10,000.

11. Neither the father nor the mother may take the children out of Mexican territory without the authorization of the other.

12. Since GERENDE owes the parents of LIEMPTY-19 the sum of $286,500 plus agreed-on interest, minus whatever payments he has been able to make, the said GERENDE is obliged to mortgage the house at 39 Ladera, Lomas de Bezares in this city, precisely during the course of the divorce procedure by mutual consent as established in the antecedent clauses and before the divorce is granted so that LIEMPTY-19's parents are reimbursed on their loan or on the outstanding unpaid balance.

13. The expenses of making this agreement a formal writ as well as the fees of B. Juardo will be paid by GERENDE but these will be fixed in an equitable manner by Carlos Heyn to whose decision both will submit.

14. In case of failure to comply with any of the clauses of this agreement at any time or for just one time, either by GERENDE or LIEMPTY-19, both agree to expressly establish the following sanctions and terms:

15. If GERENDE is the one who violates any clause just one time, he will forfeit the house at Ladera 39 to the mother and children, LIEMPTY-19, Adriana Juliette, Christopher Ramon, Maria Madleine, and Laurence Fernando, and said property will belong to the above-mentioned persons.

16. If LIEMPTY-19 is the one who violates the terms of this agreement for just one time, she will lose custody of the children in favor of the father or whatever person he designates for the guardianship and custody of the minors.

17. Since LIEMPTY-19 has to establish an appropriate place to live, in the company of her four children, both parties agree that the household effects will be turned over by GERENDE to LIEMPTY-19 for that purpose, as well as the automobile she has been using throughout the marriage.
