Ari Kiev, M.D.

We have had three scientists visiting the Institute this year. One of them was Dr. Vladimir D. Nebylitsyn, Vice-Director of the Institute of Psychology from Moscow, who stayed two months with us. He helped us create a typology laboratory in our Psychology Department. At the same time, he offered a course on typology variables according to Teplov and himself.

He works principally studying personality. His conception is primarily based on the properties of the human brain that were discovered by Pavlov and later developed by Teplov and his collaborators.

Dr. Nebylitsyn, as well as other investigators, has developed scientific methods for investigating such properties of the nervous system, and their studies nowadays can very well be correlated with certain personality dimensions. This has been proven by some investigators abroad, and today, in Cuba, we need to begin developing such scientific methods.

We also had Dr. E. Roy John, from the New York Medical College, who spent a month here. Following is a brief résumé of his activities at the Institute.

In the mornings, Dr. John gave a lecture on the physiology of learning, with memory as a basic theme, explaining every possible aspect—psychological, physiological, biochemical, and anatomical. The lecture was discussed by those attending, and experimental solutions were proposed for various unresolved problems. The textbook used in this course was written by Dr. John himself and will be out of print by now.

In the afternoons, four different experiments were carried out. The first concerned evoked potentials in humans, correlations of these potentials in response to luminous stimulations of different colors, and the influence of expectancy situations. The second experiment concerned learning, observing cats with alimentary reflexes. The third concerned the influence of specific and nonspecific structures of the central nervous system on learning. Stimulations of different specific structures and of the reticular formation demonstrated the importance of facilitating this mechanism. The fourth experiment was a study with microelectrodes of changes in neuronal activity during the learning stage in chronic animals.

Both Dr. Nebylitsyn and Dr. John delivered very interesting conferences at the Academy of Sciences' Conference Hall and at the Scientific Council of the Ministry of Public Health.

At the moment, we have Dr. E. Grastyán, from the University of Pecs, Hungary, who will leave soon after collaborating with the Department of Psychology for two months. He has been working on motivation and cooperating in a joint work for our coming Symposium.
