Name: Valeriya Ivanovna Leonova.

Born: Unknown.

Arrived in Mexico 11 July 1953 aboard S An iron Critti in Veracruz with her husband.

No known title or position.

Residence in Mexico: Juntaestable 80.

Children: None known, none in Mexico.

Languages: Unknown.

Other personal data: Nickname: Lera.

Private activities.

Although we have no definite indications to that effect, there is a fair possibility that Leonova (Lecnova) is employed in some administrative or clerical position in the Embassy, since she seems to be present in the Chancery area a good deal during office hours and, without children, would not otherwise have a great deal to do.

Our only information relating directly to Leonova (Lecnova) occurs during a conversation between Aparova (Aplarova), Leonova (Lecnova), and Mehlickova (Mehleova) on 26 October, in which Aparova (Aplarova) complained bitterly that Leonova (Lecnova) was shirking her share of responsibility in preparing food for the 7 November reception. Leonova (Lecnova) had apparently failed to buy ingredients, after being asked to do so, on the plea that she had not been told exactly what kind of apples to get nor where to buy them.

Aparova (Aplarova): “KOSOMOL'STI always bring about being in the front line, but in actuality, behind—”

Mehlickova (Mehleova): “Yes, when I was at their home, we happened to discuss the reception, and Rita (Atlasov) said, ‘Why should we do the work for the reception?’ I told her she should be ashamed of herself. I work in the Embassy and hold out during receptions and all holidays, and I don't complain. Leonova claims she is not going to do any shopping because she was not given the responsibility.”

Aparova (Aplarova): “What does she mean? I met her and said, ‘Lera, . . .’ She said she'd come over Sunday and make a list of the things to be bought.”

Mehlickova (Mehleova): “And she didn't come over. She was probably afraid of the work and the money involved.”

Aparova (Aplarova): “How silly. I told her we would refund all expenses.”

Comments.

We infer that Leonova (Leonov) and perhaps her husband as well is a good KGBSOUL and may be endowed with the aggressively unpleasant personality which the Soviet system seems to foster so often. As shown in our photo coverage, both she and her husband have the appearance of persons who could be the well-disciplined, unquestioning, devoted Communists idealized in Soviet propaganda.
