Additional information on Visas

QUESTION: I would like to see an article about Intourist services, prices, etc. (L. C. Krause, Minneapolis, Minnesota; M. Suparoff, Boston, Massachusetts; and many other readers)

ANSWER: Intourist is a state-operated commercial travel agency. It works with some 700 firms and transport companies in nearly 100 countries, including about 100 in the United States. Intourist arranges tours for Soviet citizens abroad and for foreigners in the Soviet Union. We estimate that 25 million foreign travelers will visit our country between 1976 and 1980 and that 18 million Soviet people will go abroad.

We will deal here only with Intourist services for foreign travelers. They include sightseeing excursions, trips to museums and theaters, meetings with Soviet workers at factories and farms and with Soviet students, round table discussions and other affairs.

Intourist offers almost 30 different kinds of group or individual tours: modern, scientific, hunting, fishing, international conferences, banquets, lectures, and symposiums, excursions for schoolchildren and youth, cruises, art festivals and more.

Many visitors come for rest and medical treatment at spas in the North Caucasus (Erentuki [Yessentuki], Zheleznovsk [Zheleznovodsk], Khvalinsk [Khvalynsk], Pchelinsk, Pstigortk [Pyatigorsk]) or on the Black Sea (Sochi, Yalta, Odessa). Such a tour includes a room at a sanatorium, special diet meals, medical care and other services.

A new tour called the Russian Language Seminar is rapidly gaining popularity. Besides seeing the country, the traveler has a chance to brush up on Russian with special courses.

Cost depends on the class and type of the tour, distance, season and number of services. Intourist offers a discount on off-season tours, frequently as low as one-fourth of the full price. There are special cut rates for youth and student groups, as well as for children.

Entry visas are issued within 10 days of receipt of applications at a Soviet Consulate. Foreign currency formalities are limited to declaring your currency at customs. Intourist also accepts credit cards from foreign banks and firms.

Itineraries include 135 cities of the country and are designed to suit all tastes. You can choose a separate republic or the whole country, the Caucasus, Siberia, Central Asia, the Far East, the leading cultural centers, health resorts, sites of ancient history, etc.

For instance, Germany's 1... for one at Intourist's major U.S. partners, offer the following tours:

1) “Spotlight on Russia and the Crimea”—16 days, Moscow–Kiev–Yalta–Leningrad, price 999 to 1,123 dollars, depending on the city of departure by air to the Soviet Union and on the season. The cost includes air fare, hotel accommodations, such as room for one or two, three meals a day, and guide services.

2) “Destination Black Sea and Caucasus”—16 days, Leningrad–Sochi–Thilis (Tbilisi)–Yerevan–Moscow, 1,159 to 1,458 dollars.

The American Express Company, another major Intourist partner, offers a 22-day “The Complete USSR” tour through Moscow, Heatok, Irkutsk, Toshkent, Dubhaa, Samarkand, Baku and Leningrad, for 1,089 to 2,086 dollars.

Incidentally, if you do plan to come, for more details get in touch with the Intourist office:

Vitaliy Kryazhev, Intourist Travel Information, 40 East Forty-ninth Street, New York, New York, 10017.

Telephone: (212) 371-6953.
