2.

because they believed the calumnies spread against him by Carlos Perzabal,

According to LIRING/3, the young Guatemalan told him that his friends back in Guatemala City continued to have confidence in LIRING/3, but “had to respect the opinions of others, and had no alternative but to discontinue correspondence with LIRING/3, at least for a respectable period.” He continued that LIRING/3 should realize that their organization in Guatemala City was in no position to check out various and sundry charges made against their friends and had to let time take care of most of their problems of this nature.

LIRING/3 told Rowton that he finally gave the unexpected houseguest a seat to stop in the room of his child, moving the latter to his studio. He then asked the guest to remain as inconspicuous as possible, informing him that he expected a number of children that afternoon for an art lesson in the apartment. The Guatemalan promised to be out of the apartment during the day and to return late at night. LIRING/3 told Rowton that in fact he did not reappear until about 2300 that night, and left before 0700 the following morning. When he returned at about 2200 on the night of 24/4/69 he informed LIRING/3 that he would be leaving the apartment early the next morning and would not have to return. He thanked LIRING/3 profusely the next morning (25/4/69) and left at about 0900 without telling LIRING/3 where he intended to go.

LIRING/3 continued to Rowton that at about 1930 on 23/4/69, when he returned to his apartment, he found “Rómulo” (Mario Mendez Aruilar) in his living room having coffee with his wife. LIRING/3 took the occasion to tell Rómulo about the unexpected houseguest. According to LIRING/3, “Rómulo” appeared genuinely surprised and asked for the identity and physical description of the person. When LIRING/3 told him as much as he knew, “Rómulo” stated that he could not identify the person as a friend of his. He speculated that the unannounced guest had been sent to check on LIRING/3 and advised him to be cautious and as normal as possible in his routine while the person remained in the house. He said that he did not exclude the possibility that this person had been sent by the LIRING office “to check on LIRING/3’s private life.” “Rómulo” then offered LIRING/3 a revolver for his self-defense, but LIRING/3 turned it down, saying that he was not worried to that extent. According to LIRING/3, “Rómulo” stated that he himself preferred to avoid meeting the young Guatemalan since he could not identify him. He reassured LIRING/3 that his own comrade who might also be in need
