The greatest student manifestation that has taken place in San Jose. More than 6,000 students asking the government to break relations with Castro were present at it.

3. The campaign to save the life of Miguel Garcia Armengol. For this campaign, as well as for the campaign in favor of Miller, we appealed to every means possible, thus attaining help from the Latin American governments and from almost all the Student Unions and civic organizations of the continents.

4. The campaign to save the life of Hans Gengler and Juan Pereira (Juanin). As in the previous campaigns, we moved continental public opinion in favor of our just demands. Unfortunately, our dear Juan Pereira Varela was killed on the coast of Cuba, before the pleadings for mercy from all places on the continent reached Castro and before the Secretary of Foreign Relations of Brazil, San Tiago (San Thiago) Dantas, could intervene for his life, as he had promised Jose I. Rodriguez (Jose I. Rodriguez), with whom he had held a private interview. The whole account of the labor we accomplished for this campaign and for the campaign in favor of Miguel Garcia Armengol is filed in our offices.

5. Help rendered to Latin American Student Unions. From the Latin American outlook, this labor has probably been one of the most important labors carried through by our Delegations. During this year many of our Delegations have worked intimately with the democratic leaders of the Student Unions of the continent in order to throw the Communists out of the positions which they control and to attain success in student elections or simply maintain the actual positions held. Some efforts which deserve to be named are the labor accomplished by our Delegation in Panama, due to which, according to the exact words of student leaders in Panama, the direction of the Union de Estudiantes Universitarios (UEI), which had fallen under Communist control, was reconquered by the Democrats. The labor accomplished by our Delegation in Venezuela has been perhaps the most important, through which student groups of the Partido Social Cristiano (COPEI) and the Partido Accion Democratica (AD) have strongly opposed in armed actions the Communist groups which control the University and have even received the compliments of President Romulo (Rómulo) Betancourt. The labor accomplished by our Delegation in Honduras, through which it has helped and guided the democratic administration of the Federacion Estudiantil Universitaria (FEUH) and also paid for the publication of the newspaper “Avance,” official reporter of the FEUH. The account of the labor carried through by the ERE together with the Confederacion Universitaria de Bolivia, the Federacion Universitaria del Peru, with that of the opposition of Uruguay, Argentina (Argentias), Brazil (Brasil), and Santo Domingo is filed in our offices.

6. The system of propaganda of the Section of International Relations. Our system of propaganda is probably one of the strongest in the Latin American student sphere, in spite of the limited means we possess. Our labor of propaganda has been so intensive that we have practically had to use a larger place to file the propaganda the Delegations have issued and sent us. We have maintained the best relations with the Latin American press, which frequently publishes articles on the DRE; also, the international news agencies (UPI, AP, etc.) have published cables related to the DRE. For a better understanding of the labor developed, we are going to divide it into written propaganda and propaganda by radio broadcasts.

a. Written propaganda
