Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current performance keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain reasons given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Randall supervises the unit responsible for developing the DDO answer to Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act requests, both at the initial request level and, increasingly, at the appeal and litigation levels. His organization is still less than one year old but has gone through several growth surges as the public reacted to the past year's publicity about CIA, demanding great amounts of information. Last March, Randall and his secretary played the role, then the T/O went from 6 to 12 to its current level of 18. In this period, initial requests received by the Agency reached nearly 10,000; appeals number about 300, and there are currently 31 cases in litigation, the DDO being involved in 27. Much overtime is the norm, in a backlogged, firefighting environment.

This has been uncharted sailing. Years of conditioning in sources and methods protection made analysis of DDO materials for release agonizing. The Watergate and Congressional investigation experience produced over-reaction tendencies in the Agency. As the individual responsible for releasing or denying DDO materials in the first instance, and subsequently defending DDO decisions in affidavits and adversarial oral depositions, I not only attest to the excellence of Mr. Randall's analysis and recommendations, but gratefully thank those who brought him to the job in the first instance. Frustrating and often demoralizing as his job is, he does it with real (cont'd)

Section E. Certification and Comments.

Monthly employee has been under my supervision.

1. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 12 Feb 76. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Services Staff. Typed or printed name and signature: Charles A. Briggs J.S.

2. By Employee.

Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance.

Date: 19-1/26. Signature of employer: Frederick C. Randall.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

I concur in the overall rating of "Outstanding". Mr. Randall is the right man in the right job at the right time. Not many would want his job, but it is an extremely important one
