Office of Personnel.

Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to improve or add to skills of her work. Give recommendations for her training. Describe, if appropriate, her potential for development and areas of outstanding ability. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mail Room.

This is a truly outstanding employee with capabilities far beyond those required for her present position. She has an unusually keen mind, makes decisions that are correct without hesitation and carries out all actions promptly and efficiently. She is the supervisor of the office staff, who respect and admire her ability. In addition to her skill, she is possessed of a most pleasing disposition which ingratiates her with the other members of the staff. The years of experience she has had at the various jobs to be done at a country desk make her invaluable as a trainer and supervisor for new personnel. Her knowledge of Spanish has also been especially helpful at the Mexican Desk. This supervisor would be most pleased to have her serve with him on any future assignment.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date. Signature of Employer. [Signature].

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 12. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify).

Date: 31 December 1960. Official title of supervisor: Desk Chief (Deak Chief), WA/3/Mexico. Typed or printed name and signature: John G. Heyn; John W. Wynn.

By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

Date. Official title of reviewing official. Typed or printed name and signature.
