(ix) CARDELLA

Nosenko said that in 1954 and 1955 there was an administrative officer in the Embassy by the name of James Cardella. The KGB had no interesting or unusual information concerning Cardella from any source, and Nosenko could say nothing more about him.

CIA files show that Chief Warrant Officer Cardella served in Moscow from September 1953 until June 1955. Other than the fact that a microphone was discovered in Cardella's Moscow Embassy office in 1964, no significant collateral information concerning him is available.

(x) VAN LAETHEM

Nosenko identified George Van Laethem as an Assistant Air Attaché at the U.S. Embassy against whom an operation was attempted in 1953 or 1954. He said that during this period a Russian actress, Alla Larionova, was placed on a train going from Berlin to Moscow with the mission of striking up an acquaintance with Van Laethem which could be followed up in Moscow. She succeeded in meeting him and gave him her address and telephone number. Although she was certain that she would hear from him, he never did call her in Moscow. Nosenko said that he had heard about this from P. F. Pankratov, the case officer handling Larionova. He added that Churanov was the case officer responsible for Van Laethem, as he was for all members of the Air Attaché's office at that time. Nosenko knew of no other interest or activity concerning Van Laethem.

CIA records show that Van Laethem was not an Assistant Air Attaché but an Assistant Army Attaché, serving in Moscow from March 1951 to March 1953. As cryptographic security officer and officer in charge of the Embassy code room, he had supervisory responsibility for the military code clerks and mechanics, including Dayle Smith, and he was on fairly close personal terms with Sergeant Roy Rhodes until the latter's departure from Moscow in January 1953; Van Laethem's duties also carried responsibility for sensitive electronic activities in the Embassy. He was again in Moscow from 19 March to 19 May 1955, at a time when Nosenko claims to have been the KGB case officer for U.S. Army Attachés. Although this trip was always intended to be only a TDY, it was represented to the Soviets as a PCS Assistant Army Attaché assignment because of the extremely sensitive nature of his business there. He was project officer for the entire electronics program at the Embassy, and went to Moscow to review the operations, including the planned use of the new electronic equipment which was seized from Benson, Mule, and Stroud in Stalingrad in May 1955 (see above).

Although Van Laethem completed his two-year tour in Moscow in March 1953, just at the time Nosenko said he entered the KGB, he was succeeded in his post by Walter Mule, for whom Nosenko has claimed full responsibility. Thus, the fact of his position as Assistant Army Attaché and Mule's predecessor would presumably be available to Nosenko.

Each time Nosenko gave CIA the story of the recruitment of “Andrey” in the June 1962 meetings, he related it to Roy Rhodes. Each reference to Roy Rhodes was followed by a statement that it was through Rhodes that the KGB learned of the existence of special electronic equipment in the U.S. Embassy. Rhodes had no access to such information.
