JOHO or JOHIO and, thus, he learned that this was the name of the director. He does not remember the address of the place where he lived.

19. In this factory there was a chemical laboratory with a Dutch laborer. This man showed David some things made of plate, which he said he used for different mixing work. Later some of these bowls were stolen. He, David, was suspected, and his living place was searched, but he had not taken these bowls.

20. Later he got in trouble because he had been to a movie with a German girl. Another girl, who was jealous, had reported this, and he was fired: a foreigner had no right to go with a German girl. However, this discharge was made to be “honorable,” and he could apply for a new job.

21. David went to the Labor Office, showed his discharge papers, and was directed to a factory in the STADTSCHREIBERSTRASSE, Berlin, Koritsplatz. The factory was producing steel ammunition belts for aircraft machine guns. The techniques used in this factory were primitive. David invented a simple machine for adjustment of the right grip necessary to hold the cartridges in the belt. The director was much pleased.

22. In Berlin David met PASCAL again. They both got the idea that they were fed up with life in Germany, and they decided to go to South America, to Brazil.

23. They needed passports, such as those for foreigners. To get those, they needed certificates of leave from their working places. Thus, David went to a Labor Office, to the prettiest girl, and asked for two leave certificates. The girl was obliging, however, said that the factory must issue the certificates, not the Labor Office. David then explained that he was misunderstood, that he did not ask for the certificates, but for the blank forms, so he could bring those to the factory.

He got the forms, filled them in, forged an imprint of the stamp of the factory by copying it over an electric bulb, stole himself during the night into the office of the foreman, and made another imprint with a cachet found there. It was easy for him to enter the office because he was living in the same building with the factory, and when he needed warm water for washing, he had to go to the upper story for opening the valve, and from there it was close to the “studio” or workshop (atelier): there was not much danger of being seen by the night guard as the operation did not take long time.

24. With the leave certificates ready, David returned to the same girl in the Labor Office from whom he had received the forms. The obliging girl stamped the certificates “registered”; entered their names into a card file, and thus, David and Fas-
