Section C: Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their major relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain rating given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Maksymiec's background and experience lie in practical photography, about which there is extremely little he does not know. He was transferred from PSD/PLB primarily because there was little opportunity to use this experience, and because the advancement potential appeared to be minimal.

From the day of his transfer, Mr. Maksymiec has performed capably. Much of the work has been new to him, requiring him to learn and master many aspects of theoretical photography. He has acquired proficiency in the use of laboratory measuring instruments. He has applied himself and learns rapidly, with good retention. His frame of mind has improved, and this is manifested in a more relaxed, yet completely involved approach to his work. He works well with others and cooperates fully in all group problems. He accepts responsibility and requires direction of effort only in those theoretical areas where he has no experience. When responsible for the expenditure of funds, he exhibits a commendable cost-consciousness.

He recently took examinations for the purposes of completing his high school education, and has attended mathematics classes at Fort Myer. This is an additional indication of the interest and feeling for his job, which is manifested by a consistently proficient level of output. He is a valued member of the Exploratory Development Laboratory Staff.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 12 June 1964. Signature of employee: J.L. Maksymiec.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 10. Date: 15 June 1964. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Exploratory Development Laboratory Branch, P&DS. Typed or printed name and signature: Richard E. Swing.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Concurs with ratings and comments. Date: 17 June 64. Official title of reviewing official: Assistant for Plans & Development. Typed or printed name and signature: John W. Cain.
