Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Speaking operationally, Mr. Morales is a one-man gang. His work is of the highest order, quantitatively and qualitatively, of the JMWAVE operation being what it is, all officers should be versatile. This Mr. Morales is. His titles—first, Chief, CI, and more recently Chief of the combined CI-FI Section—do not even suggest the breadth of his activities. They take in denied area intelligence collection operations, the organization, training and management of a counter-intelligence apparatus and allied groups totalling over 300 people, sabotage and resistance ops, maritime ops, political action, propaganda and a great number of miscellaneous activities that defy classification, e.g., taking over and running a fast-moving PM recruitment program without loss of tempo when politics caused the breakdown of the normal recruitment machinery, setting up a Red Cross type service for queries from the trainees in camp.

For sustained effort, Mr. Morales has few peers. With his drive, imagination and good judgment he sets a fine example for the people who work with him, whether they find themselves under, alongside or above him in the organizational hierarchy.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date. Signature of Employee.

2. By Supervisor. Months Employer Has Been Under My Supervision: Nine. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employer Under My Supervision Less Than 90 Days. Report Made Within Last 90 Days. Other (Specify).

Date. Official Title of Supervisor. Typed or Printed Name and Signature.

12 July 1961. Chief of Base, JMWAVE. Robert Reynolds.

By Reviewing Official.

X I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comment on Reviewing Official.

Date. Official Title of Reviewing Official. Typed or Printed Name and Signature.

31 JUL 1961. Chief, WH/4. R. K. DAVIS.
