Via: Air.

Dispatch No. STTA-3769.

To: Chief, CR.  
From: Chief of Mission, Trieste.  
Subject: General—CSI/INT'L. Specific—CSI Activities and Plans for 20 March 1954.  
References: TRU-2069; STTA-3697, dated 14 January 1954.  
Date: 5 February 1954.  
Information copy: Senior Representative, Rome.

1. The following information was obtained from 530/C/309(5), dated 22 January 1954, a report of the Trieste Security Office (British Field Security Service) made available by OCOMIL. Source is PILEE. Evaluation is F. Date of information is 19 January 1954.

2. Riccardo CEPTER-MONDRICH presided at a CSI meeting held on Via Rismondo. Approximately thirty persons were present. CEPTER-MONDRICH told the students of “Giovane Italia” that it was inadvisable to demonstrate against the sentences imposed on students who participated in the November riots. Instead, he invited them to concentrate their efforts and attention on preparations for 20 March, promising that he would authorize student demonstrations on that date.

3. It is rumored that a new clandestine organization, composed of approximately 260 youths who are members of the CSI and other parties, is being formed under Bruno MARSETTI. TSO comment: Bruno MARSETTI is possibly identical with Salvatore MARSETTI. This organization consists of action squads of twenty to twenty-five men, each squad being under one leader. MARSETTI was expected to return from Rome during the weekend of 23–24 January with arms and funds for this organization. In the opinion of source, these arms and funds are supplied by prominent Masons in Rome and Milan. Source stated that the organization is being formed with the knowledge of CEPTER-MONDRICH, although the latter attempts to evade any responsibility therefor.

4. The action squad leaders meet daily in different locations to discuss progress. At the present time they have no headquarters. Their principal task appears to be the formation of plans for demonstrations on 20 March. They state that 20 March will be their day of revenge against police. The following persons are leaders of action squads:

Constantino DE MERCO; Aurelio D’ARICOSTO; Pasquale ECHONAIUTO; Orazio ROECOLO; SAUNA (fnu), brother of Duilio SAUNA; Natale ZEA.
