24 October 1968

Memorandum for: Secretary, CSPS/Section A

Subject: Recommendation for the promotion of Calvin W. Hicks (056361) to GS-14

1. I recommend the promotion of subject officer from GS-13 to GS-14. Mr. Hicks has been assigned to the Intelligence Watch FI Staff since June 1967, where he serves on a rotating schedule with seven other officers doing identical work, five of whom are currently in grade GS-14.

2. Mr. Hicks has been with IWI for about 16 months and his work, both quantitatively and qualitatively, has been consistently of very high caliber. Normally six months are required before an officer newly assigned to the Intelligence Watch is able to handle a shift by himself. At least a year is usually required before a man can advance from “adequate” to “proficient.” At present, Mr. Hicks has already progressed to the rating of “strong.” He is alert and conscientious and has an operational sense which is invaluable in the handling of intelligence. With his extensive operational and paramilitary background, Mr. Hicks has a fine sense for the relationship between operations and its primary product, the clandestine services intelligence report. This officer has been under my supervision for 11 months and during that period I have had ample opportunity to observe his conduct under conditions of stress. He is even tempered and level headed. His mistakes are few and infrequent. I am particularly impressed with his thoroughness in handling information; with the evidence of the coordination which he so often attempts with several area divisions when necessary before disseminating a report to the intelligence community. Since the intelligence information report is the face that the clandestine services shows to the intelligence analyst and the policy officers of the government, the performance of the watch officers is of great importance. This factor becomes apparent when one notes that about 30 percent of all cabled intelligence reports are disseminated by the Intelligence Watch.

3. Prior to his assignment to the Intelligence Watch, Mr. Hicks served with WH Division and with the Cuban operation. He has an extensive background in paramilitary operations both in
