Classified message. Action. Date. Info. File. Classification.

To. Info. Cite.

Page three. ZURCO227 (1033).

GUN. Instructor alias Jose, DOB CA 42.

(2) Explosives theory (C-3 and C-4 compounds, TNT, instructions on how to prepare explosives and incendiaries). Instructor alias Manuel, DOB CA 04.

(3) Guerilla tactics. No formal instructions were given. Nine manuals marked secret, written by “General Ballo.”

(4) Communications (cipher preparation: lemon juice, milk, sweat, urine; SW: RC-6 and RC-10 radio). Instructor DOB CA 27, no alias used.

(5) Topography. Instructor DOB CA 33, no alias used.

(6) First aid. Instructor DOB CA 39, no alias used.

H. 24 June group went by truck to Pinar del Rio near village Samoa for practical work with explosives. Training site referred to as a “Pete,” consisting of one barrack and mess hall.

I. 26 June group went to another “Pete” in Pinar del Rio for practical work with weapons.

J. 23 June Renteria and subject returned to Havana to second villa in Marianao. Remainder of group remained in Pinar del Rio to continue training. Reason for Renteria and subject’s earlier return was that Renteria impatient and anxious to return Peru to fight. Became extremely agitated at time Lima football stadium incident, which claims was political murder. Renteria wants return Lima to assassinate responsible police chief.

K. 30 June subject and Renteria left via Prague for Zurich. Each received U.S. dollars 1200 for expenses. Cubans paid air fare.

2. Per reference, subject and Renteria plan enter Peru overland from Chile at Arica legally with true-name Peruvian passports. Subject passport number 102408 issued Lima 12 August 60. Neither has alias documentation. Subject claims knows no details on further plans other than they supposed to join guerillas in Cuzco Province. Subject will take all his cues from Renteria. Incidentally, subject referred to subversive group as “FIR,” not “MIR.” Renteria did reveal in Paris that he has instructions to contact a man named Alain Elias in Jauja. Elias alleged to be important man in “FIR” who has had full year training in Cuba.

3. Wish emphasize that subject bona fides not established although have no indication he lying. In view Renteria presence Paris, subject’s three-hour absence definitely maximum safe time for interview. Significant portion of available time used to make recruitment pitch, give security briefing and Lima contract instructions, provide cover.
