Memo for the Records

Subject: First Sistone and Ferlen cover job outing with Consular Corps; brief initial exposure to Soviets Loginov and G. Iov. Lev.

1. Terence D. Sistone and Ferlen, both under consular cover, accompanied, with wives, Fraleyer (Frälyer), on an outing of the “Cuerpo Consular en Mexico,” a social club open to all consular officers regardless of nationality, to the new Ford factory in Cuautitlan, lunch, and an excursion of the Spanish colonial convent at Tepotzotlan (Tepetzotlan), from 1100 to 1900 hours on 17 July 1969. The Consular Corps is a creature of American citizens and ex-Consul General of Greece Leander P. Vourvoulias, who led the excursion. In addition to helping the two new State officers work into consular cover and make contacts, the purpose of the outing in part was to see at first hand the Soviet Bloc and Cubans who belong to the CC. Three Soviets showed, no identified Bloc members, and no Cubans. There were no other particularly interesting consular types, but the door was opened to meet people at future CC meetings.

2. The three Soviets who showed were Valentin Loginov, well-known to Station as KGB under consular cover, and two men of the Commercial Section of the Soviet Embassy. Both Sistone and Ferlen independently identified Lev Mikhayevich Golozov (Lev Mkhlayevich Golozov) as one of the two commercial types from the mug book, but were unable to identify the other, who was quiet and hardly talked as he tagged along. Golozov was also quiet but was engaged twice by Sistone in conversation. On one occasion he said he had been in Mexico a short time, was there as a result of the recent Soviet-Mexican trade agreement, just happened to be around, and had been invited with his colleague to the Ford outing. On another occasion he said Tepotzotlan (Tjoptzotlan) and the general art were more ornate and impressive than the Byzantine church monuments he was familiar with in Moscow. He spoke Spanish with a heavy accent and did not talk much, but was quite fluent nevertheless. Michael Sistone also talked briefly to Loginov and was introduced by Fraleyer (Frälyer) as Fraleyer’s replacement. However, the conversation was innocuous and uninteresting compared to the constant verbal sparring between Fraleyer and Loginov, which Sistone will defer to Fraleyer to report if he sees fit.
