Dominated by the vigorous and colorful personality of Charles Komarek from Ica, so is the Hungarian organization (odoration) by its energetic executive secretary Stephen Balogh from Washington, D.C. The Ukrainian Congress Committee of America is another very active body under the chairmanship of young economist Jr. Lev Kobriansky from Georgetown University.

The above-mentioned three organizations, together with the Cyclorussian-American Association, American Sport-Ball Congress, United American Brethren, and the Slovak League of America, are sponsoring a Federation of Americans of Central and East European descent, in which the headquarters at 1224 Eye Street (ye Street), N.W., Washington, D.C., is, which is at the same time the head of the American-Hungarian Federation. It is a young organization in its initial period of ambitious activities. Its officers, elected in April 1951 at the Hudson Hotel–New York Conference, are: Stephen B. Skatch (Cyclorussian)—President; Jr. Lev Kobriansky (of Ukrainian descent)—Vice President; Charles Komarek (of Polish descent)—Treasurer. Members of the Board of Directors: Stephen B. Balogh (of Hungarian descent), John Richayenack, Philip Brobak—Recording Secretary, Jr. Leokine (of Latvian descent), Nov. Tildvje Rubieic (of Croatian descent), and Stephen J. Skubik (of Ukrainian descent)—Bureau Manager. Joseph A. Jackovits (of Slovak descent) was the Federation’s Secretary General, but, accused by other officers of his tendency to turn the federation into a mere tool of the Republican Party machine, he was forced to resign. It is not to be overlooked that the Federation is at the moment under strong Ukrainian influence. The officers of the Board of Directors complain that Mr. Komarek never attended a meeting of theirs and that Mr. Charles Burke from the Washington Office of the Polish American Congress deputes only in the character of an observer. His absence, due to the fact that the Polish-American Congress apparently hinders to a large extent the federation’s activities. (The reason for this absence will be explained orally.)

According to an official statement of aims (Asia) and principles of the Federation of Americans of Central and East European descent adopted at the Board of Directors Meeting held in Washington on August 17, 1951, there are as follows:

1. To exert every effort to defend the Constitution of our American way of life. To enhance and exercise every measure of effort and resource toward the decisive defeat of Russian Imperialism, which in its venomed essence poses a mortal threat to the moral and intellectual Slavic foundations of Western civilisation, in which is posited our priceless American way of life.

2. To coordinate and implement the common and national activities of the numerous member associations represented herein within the scope of a unified political action oriented toward the systematic realization of this basic objective and the simultaneous worldwide extension of the spiritual and hence, any continuation of the serving of complaints will be simply a gesture of commercial blessing engendered in our ill of sins, the formula of self-determined freedom and the Atlantic Charter.
