Memorandum of ORNL Commitment

To: Chief, Special Affairs Staff  
From: Chief of Station, JENKINS  
Subject: Engagement of IDEN A

201-332676

1. Term and Project Charge. The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under TOPIC and is to be charged against RSC grant. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 September 1964, and it shall continue until terminated by either party upon fifteen days’ actual notice.

2. Security Approval. The appropriate security approval to utilize the subject as requested has been obtained. POA reinstated 26 June 1964 per UFGW-3997 dated 8 July 1964.

3. Citizenship. The subject is a foreign national and was born on 6 May 1939 at Pinar del Rio, Cuba, and resides at IDEN B.

4. Compensation. Commencing on the effective date of this agreement, the subject will be paid compensation at the rate of $207.52 per month. Such payments are to be made following completion of satisfactory service.

5. Taxes. The subject will be obligated to pay U.S. income tax. Taxes will be deducted from the above-stated paid compensation. The subject is eligible for Social Security. IDEN C. The subject is married and has a total of 3 dependents other than himself. The subject’s dependents are/are not residing in the U.S., U.S. possessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zone, or the Republic of Panama.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence. The subject will/will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence.

7. Operational Expenses. When properly authorized, the subject will be reimbursed for:

a. Operational travel, including mileage claims for official use of his personal automobile.

b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls, etc.

8. Other Commitments. Bonus. With prior approval of the Chief of Station, a bonus may be authorized for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The amount of the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and the results which were achieved; amount not to exceed $100.00 per any single bonus payment. In the event of the subject’s death in the line of duty, an amount not to exceed $5,000.00 will be paid to the subject’s estate.

9. Contingent Obligations. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

Signed: Frederick H. Agnew  
Field Contracting Officer

Reviewed: Joseph L. Durand  
Contract Approving Officer

Reviewed:

Officer
