2.

Script, since she pretended to be curious about the spelling of the name. According to L/4, L/2 snatched up the matchbox with expressions of appreciation, and continued to listen with interest. L/4 continued that the Greek explained to her the difficulties and complexities of working with the Mexicans in procuring sulfur and other critical products, but she confessed to L/2 that she knew nothing about such matters and felt very confused. She commented, however, that the Greek appeared quite relaxed and willing to answer her questions. She added that when she turned the conversation on Cuba, the Greek replied that he was interested naturally as a good revolutionary, but frankly was very disappointed (“decepcionado”) at the treatment received by the LIRING officials he had met, including L/2. L/4 continued that the Greek had commented that he had many dealings with foreign officials in his normal business operations but had never encountered the discourtesy shown by L/4’s officers, who did not even answer his telephone calls. L/4 concluded with a statement that she felt the Greek was no longer interested in Cuba and assumed that he had obtained whatever information he needed from other sources.

3. LIRING/4 then asked L/2 whether he needed any more information since she might be seeing the Greek once more before he left for Europe again. L/2 replied that he appreciated what she had already obtained and added that he felt it wise in these cases to get to know the person “more and more” before making a judgment. L/4 told Rowton that at this point she could not refrain from the outburst: “But you have known me for several years, and you still can’t make up your mind. How much time do you need to figure things out?” She told Rowton that L/2 just smiled at this and again asked to be given until Monday for the final answer regarding permission to return.

4. LIRING/4 then told Rowton that as she was leaving the premises, she stopped briefly to chat with Jorrín. The latter appeared genuinely surprised that LIRING/4 had not as yet been granted her permit. When she commented that probably L/2 had to wait for a reply from Havana, Jorrín exclaimed: “No, that’s not probable, since he did not send any cable on you; otherwise I would know.” He added as an afterthought that possibly he could have sent a dispatch which he would not know about, but he doubted that in view of the time element involved. Jorrín then commented that “everything” had changed since L/4 had left her job, explaining that now all confidential papers, not only from L/2’s office but also from L/9, the Commercial Section, and from “Luna’s office” were handled by one person rather than as previously by each office. L/4 commented to Rowton that she had never heard of a person by the name of Luna. He added that things in general had been tightened up from a security standpoint.
