Section II. Qualifications for Creditor Operations.

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications granted in subject which can be conceived of, or for other operations. He is a qualified fixed-wing pilot in flight aircraft.

Section III. Commitments.

1. If it is proposed to pay subject a regular salary, indicate the daily amount, if payment to be made in exchange commitments, subsidy or other method, specify and give details. Subject's contract calls for base pay of $800 per month, plus $10 per flight hour over sixty hours, also $10 per flight hour which is considered hazardous. Contract additionally contains life insurance up to $10,000.

2. Explain any promises, otherwise not covered herein, made to subject. None known.

Section IV. CE and Security.

1. Indicate the field agencies and field files with which subject's name has been checked and the results. Subject granted POA's on two occasions. It is assumed pertinent Headquarters, field and Agency files checks and investigations have been made. These include in the Subject's case, WAVE Station, FBI, I&NS, and Headquarters.

2. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by subject. Polygraph and personnel interview at WAVE Station.

3. Indicate whether or not provisional operational approval or operational approval for subject's use has been previously obtained. Yes (C-7494).

4. Date approval obtained: POA on 30 January 1960 and 30 July 1965.

5. Evaluate subject's character, reliability and security, citing evidence where possible. Subject's record indicates no adverse character traits. His records show consciousness of importance of security in clandestine operations.

6. Explain any situation or indiscretion in which subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint. None.

Section VII. Subject's Personal Habits.

1. Use of liquor, drugs; gambling, paramours. No use of liquor or narcotics, gambling or paramours is indicated in 201 file.
