Section D. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

In a very short time, Mr. Flores has become an important factor in LA/COG's efforts to directly handle Cuban on-island agents, and to expand its recruitment program. His fluent Spanish, past operational experience, versatility, and ability to blend into the local scene in most Latin American countries make him highly qualified for his present assignment. He demonstrates sound operational judgment under often trying conditions, and good ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing. His frequent TDYs demand long and unusual hours, which he gives ungrudgingly.

Almost immediately after his assignment to LA/COG in March 1974, Mr. Flores was called upon to handle a sensitive walk-in case. The agent had already been recruited and many of the developmental aspects of the case had been resolved prior to Mr. Flores' introduction, but it still required a headquarters-based case officer to provide the necessary continuity wherever the agent surfaced overseas. The case is complicated and time-consuming, involving extended TDYs and utmost adherence to good tradecraft procedures. It has developed into one of our most productive sources of information on Cuban clandestine.

Section E. Certification and Comments (continued).

1. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 10 November 1974. Official title of supervisor: LA/COG/OPS. Typed or printed name and signature: Joseph M. Skira; Milton M. Kline.

2. By Employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance. Have attached. Have not attached. Date: 6 Nov 1974. Signature of employee: L. Guilverb.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official.

I concur with the rating officer's comments and performance evaluation. Soon after his arrival at LA/COG, Mr. Flores took over the handling of a sensitive agent. While the agent's bona fides had already been established and his modus operandi determined, considerable ad hoc judgment and direction were required to continue the agent's motivation and ensure his viability. Mr. Flores did extremely well in his guidance of the agent in a series of complicated, extended meetings which took place in several Latin American countries. Good, professional tradecraft and sound judgment were exhibited by Mr. Flores.

As to his support of LA Station efforts against the Cuban target,

Date: 16 Nov 74. Official title of reviewing official: DC/LA/COG. Typed or printed name and signature: Joseph Skira.
