Those of our ... There are also at the moment several serious obstacles for our close cooperation between our states and the Federation. The two bodies consist of different national groups; some of the nationalities present in this group have no counterparts in the Federation, as in the case of Russia, Romania, Roumania, and Bulgaria. Efforts are being made to bring these national groups within the scheme of the Federation. On the other side, Ukrainians, Carpatho-Katholics, Byelorussians, and Slovak autonomists are not represented in our Committee. It should be stressed also that some of the corresponding new immigration groups of the last-mentioned nationalities are being considered by our friends from C.C.P.H. as cooperative due to their separatistic tendencies. I realize that the thorny problem of the independence of some of the mentioned nationalities can hardly be introduced in C.C.P.H. at the present moment. I would be inclined to suggest that, as many of our immediate allies are similar to those of the Federation, regardless of some substantial differences, we should take advantage of such a large body of organized American friends eagerly interested in the liberation of our respective countries within the whole area of Central-Eastern Europe. The same would apply, of course, to all component national organizations of the Federation, such as, for instance, the Polish American Congress, which is not yet closely linked with the Federation. I would suggest that, as all our groups have already established their liaison officers, they appoint a liaison to the Federation of Americans of Central and East European Descent in order to be informed about their activities and to represent there our point of view. Such cooperation may be of great importance in many fields. I am sure that all these American organizations would be willing to help us in raising before the free world the problems of denariations and forced labor in our part of the world, as our Polish American Congress was very helpful in bringing the Katyn Forest massacre into the light of free opinion. Let us use our American brothers not only in such otherwise vital services as sending millions of food and clothing parcels behind the Iron Curtain or signing tens of thousands of affidavits and job assurances for displaced persons. Let us cooperate with them as closely as possible in the most important political problems of our struggle for freedom.

The principal political issue facing us in that respect is that of pressing for a “liberation policy” of the United States and other Western Powers. With the approach of the November 1964 elections, it is becoming obvious to all of us that it will be of extreme importance for the cause of our liberation (解放) who will be elected as the new legislators of the United States. As regards whether we are allowed to interfere in American domestic politics, as representatives of our countries we are deeply interested in whose hands the state and the future of world events will lie in the years to come. It is now commonplace to state that Soviet Russia and the United States will decide the fundamental, universal issues in which our countries are so much concerned—liberty or slavery. We believe deeply that this should be a matter of common interest to us and to the citizens of the United States. It would be more than short-sightedness not to realize that, in its decisive struggle for the very existence of our nations, we are lucky to possess here powerful and understanding allies in at least 10 million American voters of Central-Eastern European descent. We are especially eager, as are we ourselves, in bringing …
