16 April 1968

Subject: Vallejo and Roesten Meeting with LINO/4.

1. Roesten met with LINO/4 at the Liana restaurant (Calle Mississippi) from about 1815 until 1900 on 16 April 1968. LINO/4 asked Houston whether he had heard anything from HAILO/3 and stated that she was beginning to worry since he had promised to let her know of an address in Chiapas to which she could write. Houston pretended not to know precisely where and for how long LINO/3 intended to be away, explaining that he felt it unfortunate that he had been out of town three days before LINO/3 had left and did not have the benefit of a final discussion. Houston alleged that LINO/3 had not told him very much in the letter he had left with LINO/4 for his first flight in Mexico, but said he had not mentioned anything about Hailo Moreno driving his car. In a further effort to clarify this, and to keep LINO/4 from subsequently believing, when she finally learned of his arrest, that Houston was responsible for the tragic development, Houston alleged that he had urged LINO/3 not to cross the border but only to guide Lara to a safe crossing point and return immediately to San Cristóbal.

2. LINO/4 stated that unfortunately she herself knew very little of the final arrangements. She explained that LINO/3 had told her that he had persuaded Hailo Moreno to drive his car to Chiapas because of the self-inflicted leg wound that prevented Lara from walking any great distance. She added that LINO/3, in his last telephone conversation with her, told her that Hailo Moreno had finally “chickened out” and returned to Mexico City. LINO/4 made no mention of Carlos Persaval, and Houston assumes that after Hailo Moreno backed out of his previous commitment, probably even before they left Mexico City, LINO/3 turned to Carlos Persaval and persuaded him to drive them to Chiapas in his car and subsequently to accompany them across the border. LINO/4 continued that she was happy that Houston had dissuaded LINO/3 from crossing the border because she was well aware of the dangers involved if he fell into a trap or was picked up by the Guatemalans. She added that she did not particularly like Francisco Lara anyway and felt that he was too well known to escape detection.

3. In reply to Houston’s query, LINO/4 stated that Sandoval of the “thirteenth” (Yon Sosa Group) had telephoned her several times to ask if he could help her in any way, but did not apparently have any news. Houston suggested that LINO/4 keep in touch with Sandoval just in case he might have learned something from fax or Yon Sosa contacts. LINO/4 gave Houston Sandoval’s address as Lama 54, Apt. II, but commented that she felt a little embarrassed to see him alone in the absence of LINO/3. Houston then suggested that perhaps it might be more discreet.

HNMA-31682

201-798301
