A. Air Force will pay no fee of 1% each month on total earnings of employees. It was agreed that individual salaries would be averaged at $650.00 each. This payment is to be made on the first of each month by transfer to the Sky Bank.

G. We obtain insurance in the amount of Sterling 3500 for each employee, and Air Force pays the actual cost.

Re.

As you can see, it is a simple agreement and one which will not make us rich. They indicated they would want one film-strip machine and available training films for mechanics and pilots.

It appears that there will be a great deal of Sky contract flying for the US in the Congo for some time to come. As I told you, Inter-Ocean and TIC are doing the rest, with Inter-Ocean having six DC-8s flying 1,500 hours per month and TVA doing nearly 300 with two aircraft. TVA will pull their aircraft out in the next ten days for the Heli, and it would seem that your man in New York might be able to work something out whereby we could replace them and remain in the Congo.

Living accommodations are good in Louisville. Villas rent from $120.00 on an un[clear] with a nice place for about $175.00. This would be a three- or four-bedroom place with all the facilities. If we had crews there, they could live together, as I’m sure none of them would want to take families. Food is expensive but no more so than in Parisoli. Car gasoline is selling at a little over 40 cents a gallon, which isn’t bad. Nothing is being imported into the country, so things could get real 싼 if someone in the next 4 to 6 months. American cigarettes are not available, and Belrion brands are not identical. There is a money black market for hard currency, and you can get anywhere from 65 to 90 Congolese francs for a dollar, whereas the legal rate of exchange is 50 to a dollar. The Time correspondent was caught channeling money, and the Embassy had quite a time getting the thing straightened out.

Under ordinary circumstances, except for contracting with the US, I think it is possible to get a contract with the Congolese (Congoese) government at this time. However, with things as they stand, this is a tough way to set our foot in the door and surely cover-up operation flexible. West Africa. Perhaps Côte d’Ivoire would like to make a trip out there as well as our representative!!!

When the situation in Haiti were better—I’ll give you 10 much done as possible after my arrival. I’ve heard nothing more from the Congo, so will probably be leaving on Monday for Cotonou.

Best regards,

Tally
