Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in mind past performance. Give recommendations for improvement. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

The person being rated is a conscientious devotee of high moral who has demonstrated an extraordinary ability to get along with his co-workers and other ODYOKE representatives with whom he is collaborating. He receives his assignments cheerfully and with enthusiasm and approaches all of his tasks with great zeal. He devotes an inordinate amount of his own personal time to his duties in an effort to achieve perfection and sets very high standards for his own performance. The person being rated speaks native Spanish and is able to accomplish all of his interrogations in Spanish. This ability is a great asset to him in his work and redounds in benefits to the KUDESK effort of the Station.

The person being rated is an accomplished interrogator and thus receives very little guidance in his work. His ability to trap security suspects in contradictions is unique and is paying dividends in the WAVE KUDESK field of endeavor. He has shown mature judgment in the handling of complex security cases, balance in appraising the interrogation results and in recommending disposal action, and proficiency in the preparation of his interrogation reports. He is currently supervising the interrogation activities of three KUJUMP interrogators and has shown an ability in establishing personal rapport with these interrogators and proficiency in directing their activities. It is recommended from the standpoint of his career development that after the completion of his current assignment, the person being rated be moved into an assignment involving the handling of agents in the KUDESK field of effort.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 4 months. Date: 4 September 1963. Signature of employee. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: At time preparation this report employee was on TDY Hqs and leave. Will be shown him upon return. Official title of supervisor: Chief, CI Branch, JNWAVE (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.).

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Subject is a hard working, dedicated, productive intelligence officer who has completely mastered those basic tools of the trade which are needed in CI activities. Subject has and uses native Spanish language fluency. Subject's performance during the period covered by this fitness report warrants an overall evaluation of “Strong.” As a result, it is believed that Subject is a well-qualified journeyman who has earned a promotion to the grade of GS-12. Subject is strongly recommended for promotion to the grade of GS-12. Subject has additional growth potential as an intelligence officer. Subject's activities come to the attention of the Reviewing Officer on a bi-weekly basis. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Neil T. PICKWORTH (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.). Date: 18 September 1963. Chief of Station, JNWAVE (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.).
