Health Qualification Placement Record.

This section is comparable to Standard Form 90 promulgated March 1945 by Bureau of the Budget Circular A-24.

Name: Charlotte J. [last name not provided]. Date of birth: January 16, 1929. Sex: Female. Address: Sun n.e. G. Richards, Dayton 9, Ohio. Title of position: Statistical Draftsman. Department or bureau: Office of the Secretary, Interior—Division of Geography. Location: Washington, D. C. Are you now employed in the position shown in Film (Form) 51: No.

To be completed by appointing officer: Sections 9 and 10.

Brief outline of what worker does. Physical demands of the position. For the physician's use, set down in brief and simple terms what the employee does on this job, including environmental details such as steps to climb, distance to restroom facilities, cafeteria, work shift, etc. Use Section 9 below. In Section 10 below encircle the number of those factors which are essential to the duties of the position for which this applicant is being considered. The blank spaces may be used for special factors not listed.

Title of position and outline of what worker does in this position: Statistical Draftsman—to assist in the performance of drafting, lettering, and incidental statistical clerical work in the preparation and revision of index maps, showing the location of approved and disapproved names and the extent of features to which names apply; charts, graphs, and other illustrative materials in connection with the functions of the Research Branch and for administrative purposes.

To be completed by examining physician: Sections 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15.

Instructions. The items listed below indicate the physical requirements of the position for which this individual is being considered. Indicate the individual's physical abilities for this position by placing an X in the appropriate column opposite the numbers encircled. If the individual has any other physical limitations relating to physical requirements not encircled or not covered by this form, indicate these under “Remarks” on the reverse side. Whenever partial capacity has been indicated, explain under “Remarks,” giving specific quantities.

Physical requirements: Full, Partial, None. Environmental factors: Full, Partial, None.

1. Outside.
2. Outside and inside.
3. Excessive hazard.
4. Excessive cold.
19. Working around machinery with moving parts.
20. Sniffing objects or vehicles.
31. Working on ladders or scaffolding.
32. Working below granite.
