Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject worked most of the time on the station PBRUMEN section. She was clearly outstanding in collating information from all sources during a recent intensified “PBRUMEN” month, determining as a result the overall pattern of the PBRUMEN mission here, spotting operational leads and updating target studies on all PBRUMEN officials as a result. Her final writeup regarding both new information obtained and the gaps that remain was thorough and useful.

Subject is extraordinarily rapid and efficient in researching for info, organizing files and other material and writing up any kind of resulting memo or dispatch. The same might be said perhaps of some other real pros in the IA field. However, in addition, Subject has a good, tough, operations-oriented mind and positively contributes ideas and suggestions re new operational techniques which the station has used profitably. Subject has natural managerial abilities as recently demonstrated in her organizing TDY help in a station-wide file and watchlist effort in connection with a presidential visit. Her Spanish is more than adequate for reading reports, and handling operational messages in that language. In sum, Subject is a tremendous station asset and would be extremely hard to replace without noting a serious loss in station efficiency.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

I, by employee: /S/ Charlotte R. Dustoe-Videla.

Months employee has been under my supervision.

Date: 5 March 1971. Official title of supervisor: Operations Officer. Type or printed name and signature: /s/ John Issainger.

Comments of reviewing official.

Although in my opinion there is an excessive use of “outstanding” by the rating officer, I am in accord with his narrative comments. Subject is definitely more than an IA and has performed as such when the station has required an individual with in-depth knowledge of station procedures, operational awareness combined with an ability to prepare studies in a short period of time. She's thorough, concise and rapid. One of our hardest workers and most dependable employees.

Date: 25 March 1971. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief of Station. Type or printed name and signature: /s.
