72-KICO-23

29 April 1965

25.5 continued.

Confusing situation in Dominican Republic. What does VKG think? It is complex (side-steps him). Dominican exiles were going to try the Embassy to find out where they could locate Valentin Cucherov.

When can they meet one another? When VC likes. Perhaps on Monday. Call VKG on Monday to arrange a time. Will phone Monday morning.

After 2120, 29 April.

26.5 In. Miric (v) with VKG, who answers. Cucherov just phoned. He just found out about the press conference. Miric says that the correspondents of news agencies he likes very much (ironic?). Cucherov asked VKG what he thought about the situation. VKG replied that he thought the situation was confusing.

They say that they (Bosch (Boach) men) have 50,000 men ready to enter the fight. Continue to attack en masse San Isidro. Is this from Informex?

Yes.

There is an official declaration of Mexico, essentially disappointing the Marines. President is still very worried about the situation in the sister Republic and the government thinks it is very sad that the U.S. took this action. It is only 20 or 30 lines. Doesn't it mention the O.B.A.? No, but the sense is the same, with an accent of a little more worry. There is news that the Mexican Embassy has also been attacked in Dominican Republic. They have attacked Salvadoran, Peruvian, Mexican, Ecuadoran, and U.S. Embassies. VKG doubts this. Thinks these may have been provocateurs. Why would they attack the Embassies? The Mexican Ambassador is in almost constant communication with Mexico, informing them what is going on. And it is not sure yet that there are any victims among the U.S. citizens. But there has been further disembarkation. VKG thinks they will occupy the territory. This will be a repetition of 1916. Miric says it won't be exactly the same. No, it was then to form the emplazse and it is now to defend.

As to the O.B.A., things are not going well. There was a three-hour meeting which did not resolve anything. VKG heard about this. They are back in meeting.

VKG is going to ask Pajos to let him turn his story in on Monday. Everything is too contradictory yet.

Miric has taken his position and is now writing his story. Miric would like to have text (of Fidel). Call Jardon. If VKG has any news, he will phone Miric.

28.5 Out to 45-60-15. VKG asks NO, who sawere, for Jardon (or Pardon). Jardon takes the phone. Asks if he has the declaration of Mexico. Yes. Asked him to read it. Reads it, summarizing that President Diaz Ordaz (Diaz Ordoz) has been fraternally and deeply worried about the situation in Dominican Republic; that the Mexican Ambassador has been in constant telephone contact with the Department of Foreign Affairs here. The Ambassador is lic. Kamon kuls Vasconcelos. The Ambassador has given refuge and asylum to Mexicans and Dominicans (Dosmicicans). Situation is confusing to normal Mexican conduct with their international principles, especially with respect to American problems. They can state that they deplete the blood being shed, as stated in the O.B.A., and sufferings of Dominican Republic and are sorry that the U.S. government has had to act in such a manner which recalls them of such sad memories of several countries in the hemisphere, and that marine force occupation will be the shortest time as possible; that Dominican Republic can resolve their problems without any direct or indirect exterior influence. VKG thinks that it is quite good within what can be expected.
