Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employ his personnel of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections J, C, and D to provide a complete picture in determining future personnel actions.

October 25, 2:32 PM, 1961.

Subject, a Case Officer at this Station since 3 February 1960, continues his outstanding performance in assignments normally handled by a Case Officer of considerably higher grade.

Subject carries out his assignments with a minimum of supervision and is very willing to accept responsibilities of any type assignment to him.

Subject is rated very highly in Section B of this Fitness Report and this has been done because Subject has earned these ratings in his own right and in comparison with the work done by other Case Officers at this Station.

It is strongly recommended that Subject be given special consideration for promotion. It would be unfortunate for KUBARK to lose a man of this calibre through neglect of his career promotions. In addition to this superior work, Subject is the head of a family of six (6). As a result of his low salary, he is relegated to an inferior standing in the local society, based upon what a man can acquire through his earnings. Subject's contacts and currently high standard operations require that he spend and appear to be making considerably more than he is currently paid by KUBARK. It would seem unreasonable for KUBARK to expect a man of this calibre to make high level contacts and yet not be able to represent himself as a man in the economic level which his responsibilities represent.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 10 October 1961. Signature of Employee: /s/ Thomas J. Keenan.

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 20 Months.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days.

Report made within last 90 days.

Other (Specify).

Date: 10 October 1961. Official title of supervisor: Case Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Frank P. Estaneza.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.
