Report No. DD-742, C-4, 20 Mar 64 (continued).

Changing ideas in accordance with this or that situation, then I am not an opportunist because I do not change my ideas. I have upheld the same ideas since I appeared in the public light, and they are here in my Political Testament and in other declarations and documents which I have made and written. For those reasons I cannot be an opportunist." He also said that he had knocked, was knocking and would continue to knock on all doors to get assistance for the liberation of Cuba; that he classified men into two categories only, worthy men and unworthy men, and there were no other differences; that to him all men were equal, be they black or white, rich or poor, members of one regime or of another; that he has known and knows many worthy men from all regimes, etc., etc., etc.

Questions and Answers.

Following are some of the most outstanding questions and answers:

Question: A man who said he was named Filiberto Rivero (RIVERO) and that he worked for a TV station at Los Angeles, California, asked the following question. "Mr. ARTURO, I am going to ask you a strong question which therefore requires a previous explanation. Some time ago one of your representatives in Los Angeles told me you would be going to that city and I was going to ask you this question, but you did not go. Now that I have the opportunity I am going to ask this question to you. The question is this: In Los Angeles and other places there are rumors that in certain U.S. circles, which are described as extreme liberals, they have the plan of using some Cubans—like you, for example—to keep the rest of the Cubans entertained making them think they will go to war when the fact is that their plan is very different. The plan consists of not having that war and thus be able to show, in a few years, how peaceful coexistence is possible. My question is this: Have you ever considered that you might be the Cuban who has been chosen for this and that you might still not be aware of it?"

Answer: I don't know whether such a plan exists or not, what I can guarantee to you is that I would not be the Cuban chosen for that. I am precisely supported by the group which is opposed to those liberals, by the group of Latin American men who fear just that, not by the U.S.
