Continuation of Dispatch HOGA-7617.

Information from Tapes

A. Tape 1, side 1. A speech made by Victor Rigo Galan (Mexican newspaper correspondent who is very leftist) to guerrillas under the command of Marco Antonio Ten Sosa. Generally, he informs the guerrillas that the revolution in Guatemala is the revolution of Latin America. He reports that persons in Latin America and Europe are keenly interested in the Guatemalan revolution and send letters to Galan affirming their support of it. He then goes into the problems of the apparent split between the 13 November movement and the PCT leadership. He states that the PCT has not given the guerrillas the proper support and has taken too soft a line in the revolutionary struggle. He talked to the party leadership and asked that personal feelings be set aside and suggested complete cooperation with the guerrillas to overthrow the present government. At the end of the tape the guerrilla theme song is sung by a group of guerrillas.

B. Tape 1, side 2. This side discusses, voice unidentified, the interview Ten Sosa had with newspapers in the Sierra de los Minos. The speaker explains how the interview was disseminated throughout Guatemala by Supplement No. 1 of the Revolucion Socialista. The interview will soon be translated into German, French and other languages and will be sent to Mexico, Latin America and countries in Europe. The speaker then goes on to explain how the guerrilla publication, Revolucion Socialista, has created great enthusiasm, though he does not say where, and how it will make people aware of the role the guerrillas play in Guatemala. Its main object is to attack imperialism and the Guatemalan Government.

C. Tape 2, side 1. This side deals with generalities on the revolution going on in Guatemala. It discusses the need for a new government to represent the people. It states that the guerrilla movement is the vanguard of the masses of workers and campesinos (composinos). At the end of the tape it salutes the workers of the world.

D. Tape 2, side 2. An unidentified voice discusses, in very general terms, the problems of the guerrillas in shipping various articles, including weapons, literature and tapes, to different parts of the country. The major obstacles to smooth movement of the articles throughout the country are police and military checkpoints on the major roads and the fact that large truck shipments cannot be mounted, forcing the guerrillas to hand-carry most of the material. Through negligence, many guerrillas have been captured with compromising material in their possession. Pseudonyms are repeatedly mentioned on this side—Rolando, Rudy, Edou, and Mateo—which cannot be identified by the Station.

E. Tape 3, side 1. This side is taken up by an unidentified person reading passages out of Revolucion Socialista and Marxist literature.

F. Tape 3, side 2. On this side there are discussions of the problems faced by the guerrillas. The first problem is the trouble the Kando General was having with the Guatemalan Communist Party; the Party tended to isolate itself from the guerrillas. Other problems included communications between guerrillas throughout the country; problems with the recording machine; and the problem of putting out propaganda which can be understood by theAKEE. All these problems were discussed in very general terms, omitting names, places and dates.

4. Notes from the Tapes

The information found on the tapes is of no operational value to the Station since it deals with propaganda and guerrilla problems already known by the Station. What is of interest is the apparent effort by the guerrilla leadership to use tapes as a means of operational communications and to reach the illiterate peasants and workers with spoken instead of written propaganda.

The operational use of tapes would obviate the need for printai internal communications.
