Fitness Report.

Section A—General. Name: Cohen, Lucie E. Date of birth: M. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. SD. Officer of assignment: DD/FE/VOC. Current station: Saigon. Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional; Special (specify). Type of report: Annual XX. Reassignment supervisor; reassignment employee.

Report due in O.P. Reporting period: 1 April 1964–10 September 1964.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W—Each: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Maintains, under supervision of the COS, discreet liaison with the Prime Minister. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Senior advisor in the selection, training, maintenance and operation of the Prime Minister's personal security force. Rating letter: S. Under COS direction maintains contact for intelligence and political action purposes with a variety of senior indigenous officers, including Chief of State, senior staff officers, Corps
