CHUTE

Country: Italy/Yugoslavia/France/St. Britain/USA. Subject: William Zebulon Foster. Origin: London 75-. Date of info: As stated. Date: May 15, 1947.

On 15.3.47, our representative in Rome reported that Foster had arrived there on 14.3.47 for a stay of a few days.

On 1.4.47, we heard from Belgrade that according to local press reports of 25.3.47, Foster had left Yugoslavia on 24.3.47. No details were given regarding his destination, but the press report mentioned that he had been accompanied by Tim Buck, Leader of the Labour Progressive Party of Canada.

A report dated 1.4.47 from Paris stated that after the British Communist Party Congress in London, several important delegates had arrived in Paris, among whom were William Z. Poster (Foster), Tim Buck, Lahaut, Chief of the Belgian Communist Party, who had not been in London and who arrived direct from Brussels, and Harry Pollitt. At the same time, several Communist delegates who had been present at the W.I.D.F. Congress in Prague had also arrived in Paris, including Nina Popova, the U.S.S.R. delegate, as well as delegates from Greece, Brazil, Cuba, and Viet-Nam. Our source, however, does not know the names of any except those mentioned.

Several meetings were held at the headquarters of the Central Committee of the French Communist Party at 44, rue Le Peletier. At one of these meetings the following were known to have been present: William Poster (Foster), Tim Buck, Dolores Barbieri, Nina Popova, Maurice Thorez, Andre Maryt, Jacques Duclos, Auvais, Cachin, Berlioz, Frachon, Monmousseau, Fajon, Robert Retit, and also George Williams and Michaielov (Mikhailov), Comintern Delegate.

John Pittman, Paris correspondent of the American Daily Worker, had acted as interpreter. Although our source does not know much of what happened at this meeting because great secrecy was observed, he states that the meeting was concerned with uniting world democratic forces against international reaction. In this connection, the French Communist leaders are said to have very much regretted the difficulty of bringing about the union between the American Federation of Labour and the Congress of Industrial Organizations in the U.S.A.

Encl.

Cheaney
