Type: COD. Status: DSSE. Date: 04/15/1968. Reason: Confidential.

Subject: Haiti (Faiti): Possible Improvement in Fortunes of Clezard Joseph-Charles; Possible Reason for President Duvalier's Harsh Treatment of Charles; Eclipse of Luc-Albert Foucard. Date: 22 April 1968. Report No. 00-3-321/10768-69. Date distributed: 22 April 1968. No. pages: 2. Supplement to: 003-321/07210-69; 003-321/06914-69.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: Naturalized U.S. citizen of Haitian birth, who makes frequent trips to Haiti. Source maintains close contact with Haitians in the U.S. and with prominent business and political figures in Haiti.

1. During recent weeks, the fortunes of Clezard Joseph-Charles seem to have improved. He has been playing a not unimportant role in the award of the Haitian gambling concession, an activity which is designed to bring to Haiti some badly-needed foreign exchange. Although I do not believe that he sees President Duvalier as frequently as he used to prior to his incarceration, he does seem to have recovered some of the confidence which the President used to repose in him.

2. One reason for President Duvalier's dislike of Charles (and one possible reason why the President eventually threw him in jail) is that Charles was instrumental in bringing about the marriage of the President's daughter, Marie-Denise Duvalier, to Colonel Max Dominique. Charles and Marie-Denise have been close friends for many years. Marie-Denise became pregnant by Dominique and went to Charles for help. Charles then intervened with President Duvalier, who was furious, and persuaded him to agree to the marriage. The President was bitterly angry at Dominique and somewhat unjustly blamed Charles for the marriage. He agreed to the necessity for the wedding, but resented his new son-in-law and, by association, so to speak, resented Charles. The President and Dominique have formally reconciled. The President met (net) Colonel Dominique at the airport, when the latter returned to Haiti, and made a point of inviting his son-in-law to ride in the presidential limousine from the airport to the palace. The purpose was to demonstrate the burial of old grudges. It remains to be seen, however, whether or not the reconciliation was genuine and whether or not the President has really forgiven his son-in-law.
