Seventh Department — January 1962–January 1964.

In February 1964 NOSENKO produced, among other notes which he had brought with him to a meeting with CIA (see p. 319), one bearing the name of Everett Wallace [sic] JOHNSON and the date “5 January 1962.” Questioned about the note, NOSENKO recalled the significance of neither the name nor the date, and stated that the case was not a recruitment but “some sort of developmental operation.”

NOSENKO next mentioned JOHNSON on 17 April 1964. Although not immediately recalling JOHNSON’s name, he eventually remembered that it was something like JOHNSON or JOHNSTON, and that he was a Baptist from the California coast. NOSENKO placed the operation sometime in the summer of 1962, after his return to Moscow from Geneva, because he also remembered he wore no overcoat at the time. JOHNSON, who had come to the Soviet Union as a tourist, was discovered to be a homosexual, and on this basis the KGB Second Chief Directorate considered him as a recruitment target. The Second Chief Directorate was not interested in JOHNSON as an agent because he had no access to important information and he lived too far from the KGB Legal Residencies in the United States for convenient contact.

Several days later KGB surveillance observed JOHNSON mailing some letters in Moscow. When read by the KGB they were found to be “so bitter toward the Soviet Union, angry, critical, that the KGB decided something had to be done” to prevent his writing letters and making anti-Soviet statements on his return to the United States. “At about the same time” there was some sign that JOHNSON was a homosexual, and it was decided to entrap him on this basis. The sole reason was to halt JOHNSON’s criticism of the USSR. No recruitment was to be attempted because neither the First nor the Second Chief Directorate had any use for him as an agent and because the KGB had concluded that he was unlikely to accept recruitment. NOSENKO did not know why he was selected to make the approach to JOHNSON, except that “BOBKOV said I should go.” NOSENKO said he had reported on duty in the Seventh Department only the day before. F. D. BOBKOV, a Deputy Chief of the Second Chief Directorate, supervised the activities of the Seventh Department. NOSENKO’s homosexual agents VOLKOV and YEFREMOV were selected to compromise JOHNSON.
