Was in Salvador apparently is working fairly well. You'll recall that this was accepting with the Bible that if anyone worked for six days (this was referable to the campesinos) he was entitled to the seventh day pay. I was worried at the time and mentioned my worries to Choretic (Phonetic) and also the Minister of Economics who was at breakfast with us at that time, that one of the possible dangers of any reform is that it is not carried through intelligently and forcibly. It is better not to have a reform, not to announce a new idea, not to arouse expectations, if there is going to be violation of those expectations. At that time it was contemplated that the army would administer the program of the seventh day pay. Apparently they have changed their mind on that and have a civilian group that is administering the program; there has been no real scandal with respect to violations of this. I was a little fearful that a local army guy would get paid off by some of the big plantation owners and thus be permitted to do all kinds of violations. Apparently this has not happened, and they've been pretty effective in the administration.

My big objection at that time was that again the minimum salary thing was not properly publicized. They could have had all kinds of radio and television programs, interviews with the campesinos, and asked them what they felt about this and actually doing that kind of public relations job which they did not do. I think this is true with all these reforms. I think that they have got to be brought to the people where you get reaction from the people as to the extent of the change, any reform has on their personal existence. This again is a matter of attitude, a matter of technique in public relations.

Well, it is certainly true that there has been a considerable amount of publicity about the Alianza para el Progreso (Alianza para Progresso). I was not aware that it was this specific group that was pushing the program of publication. However, harking back to a previous statement, I think that there is a serious possibility that over publicizing of the Alianza will cause more trouble than we can at present anticipate. As a matter of fact some of the problems are already beginning to arise. I had a long talk with Ambassador Williams on this, and I think we both agreed that we ought to soft pedal much of the talk about the Alianza; and certainly to stay away from these enormous figures of millions of dollars. As far as the people in Latin America
