OPRA-211

15 April 1967

Urgent

British Immigration Problems

Returning to the U.S. on 15/3/67, I was warned by British Immigration at London Airport that I was spending more time in Britain than outside the country. The Immigration Officer inspected my passport closely, counting the number of trips I had made since getting that passport, which had been issued by the U.S. Embassy in London on 1 December 1965. However, no explanation was asked for concerning the travel. I explained that I had intended to resettle in Switzerland or France and was spending so much time in Britain only because my wife, who was British, had been helping to take care of her elderly parents in London. I was told nevertheless that I should go to the Home Office and apply for temporary residence in Britain.

Before doing so, I would need to know:

1) Whether I should in fact do so;

2) How I should describe my work, if any, and source of income.

At present, upon investigation, the British would learn that I have no visible means of income, except for perhaps my Reports and some freelance journalism, but nevertheless receive money regularly from a Swiss bank account.

If I told the Home Office I was a freelance journalist, I imagine they would award me some sort of bank or other financial statement, which would probably be examined by British tax authorities for possible taxation. Even if I say I have no employment of any consequence and maintain myself on income from investments made in Switzerland and elsewhere, I might have to verify that statement and pay some sort of British taxes. Considering the positions of my brothers-in-law, I doubt if either could get away with claiming to fully or partially support my family, although my brother-in-law Gordon Kaye, who is a Chartered Accountant, has been deducting my children's school fees from his taxes by means of an educational trust fund, although he no longer pays anything towards the fees. I could say that I was the beneficiary of a tax-free U.S. fellowship, but this might prove more cumbersome and dangerous than necessary in the present circumstances.

In any case, I need advice on this matter urgently, as I suspect I may soon have to hear from the Home Office if I do not go to them voluntarily.

CS copy

801-3060502.

S/CATT to CEPA-2/11

10/04/1967, 9:50 a.m.
