Rico, which pointed Rico as an extremely evil and clever character, who did not possess one ounce of sincerity, and who would never cease being a Marxist revolutionary, for stripped of his Marxist propaganda weapons Rico was a nobody—and Rico did not want to be a nobody.

4. I told L/2 briefly of my successful experience with a similar case in the Philippines. He commented that it was easier to be successful in the Philippines “for the level of culture there, perhaps, is not as high as here.”

5. We parted with the understanding that L/2 would phone me at the COS’s office later that morning after his meeting with LITEMPO/8. When he called, at about 11:00, L/2 said LITEMPO/8 liked the cover story and the plan but he wanted to increase the chances that Rico would see me through the following maneuver. LI/8 wanted to send Elena Garro De PAZ (the same woman who had brought out Rico’s signed statement of his willingness to tell all in return for his freedom) to Rico carrying my calling card and an issue of my periodical; she would then persuade Rico to see me.

6. During a later phone conversation with L/2 I pointed out the risk involved in bringing Elena Garro into the operation. (The Station’s position was definitely against her involvement.) Being wealthy, influential, unpredictable and uncontrollable, Elena Garro, I pointed out, might make a phone call to the periodical in Rome and expose our hand. L/2 reported back to LI/8, who agreed with our position. L/8 then came up with the idea of my writing a letter of introduction for Rico and requesting an interview. I agreed to this scheme. Later that evening I received instructions from L/2 that at 11:00 the next morning I should go to the office of the Director of Lecumberri penitentiary and request to see Rico. The previous day L/2 had stated that LITEMPO/8 wanted to go over the “whole agenda” with me before I went to see Rico, but plans apparently changed and I did not have any contact with LITEMPO/8.

7. At the meeting with Rico I personally handed Rico the letter of introduction, and got it back from him after he had read it. In the middle of our interview Rico asked to have the letter again and I handed it to him. My plan had been not to have the letter end up in Rico’s hands if possible, but the abrupt ending of the meeting prevented my getting it back. During the briefing of L/2 by the COS and
