December 9, 1965: “Sinkiang: Russians and Chinese on the Warpath.” Chinese-Soviet skirmish near Sinkiang, while dispirited as territorial differences, really respond to the ideological rift. The USFR (USSR) increased its military budget by 5% at the expense of education, foreign aid, and agricultural and industrial development, on the grounds that “American aggressiveness” force her to do so, but the truth is that it is the Chinese threat that promotes such a move. On the other hand, we can expect larger shipments of Soviet arms to China, but a cut in economic aid.

“The Gemini 7.” The Gemini 7 flight and its scheduled meeting with the Gemini 6 will break all space flight records. The Soviet total of flying hours is tripled, and a similar advantage is reached over Soviet launchings. This is the exponent of the degree of development achieved by the West towards goals which the Communist world is not even approaching. Besides, it is a warning to Soviet leaders who seek to destroy the accomplishments of the West. If they were to attempt such destruction, they would be destroyed instead.

December 10, 1965: “A New Collapse of the Communist World.” The Marxist maxim that history is “irreversible” has collapsed once again, this time, in the Congo, Algeria, Indonesia, and, more recently, in the Sudan. The African peoples are being reborn to political life, rapidly waking up from the Communist spell and taking an anti-Communist stand. The last country to do so is the Sudan, which has just outlawed the Sudanese Communist Party and warned all other parties having connections with the Rode that they may suffer the same fate.

“What’s in and Behind the Arena of the Tri-Continental Perley.” In the Tri-Continental Conference, the USFR (USSR) will show off its triumph over the Chinese with respect to “liberation movements” in Africa. Taking advantage of Castro and Che Guevara, the Soviets managed to penetrate and divide several Parties in Latin America. There are several phases in the Kremlin’s counter-moves: the “coup” against Ben Bella, the suspension of the Algiers Conference, the vanishing of Che Guevara, the total submits-
