Fitness Report. Section A: General. Employee serial number.

Name: Hicks, Calvin W. Date of birth: 6 November 1924. Sex: Female. Grade: S-12. Service designation: DN. Office/division/branch of assignment: Cherat, Pakistan. Date report due in O.P.: Refile with new information if needed. Date eligible: X. Reporting period: From 7 January 1960 to 21 January 1960. To special (specify).

Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

1 — Unsatisfactory. 2 — Barely adequate. 3 — Acceptable. 4 — Competent. 5 — Excellent. 6 — Superior. 7 — Outstanding.

Specific Duty No. 1: Chief Ops officer for Base supporting Allied PM force. Rating No. 6.

Specific Duty No. 2: With allied officers, prepares plans for clandestine (clandess) PM force. Rating No. 5.

Specific Duty No. 3: With allied officers, directs clandestine (clandess) PM development. Rating No. 6.

Specific Duty No. 4: With allied officers, prepares and supervises training of personnel for clandestine PM force. Rating No. 5.

Specific Duty No. 5: Advises Allied HQs in instructing and preparing plans for large series overt PM force. Rating No. 5.

Specific Duty No. 6: Ops staff officer to Chief of Base. Rating No. 7.

Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1 — Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. 2 — Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects. 3 — Performance clearly meets basic requirements. 4 — Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements. 5 — Performance in every important respect is superior. 6 — Performance in every respect is outstanding. Rating No. 5.

Description of the Employee.

In the
