Dr. J. B. Redlich

In the 2nd year, we explain General Psychology in order to give the necessary preparation for an adequate application of Medical Psychology.

In the 3rd year, we invade the field of Propedeutics and participate with these teachers, adding the psychological and social factors in the clinical history, the study of psychological factors in the interview, the physician-patient relationship, the psychological reaction of the somatic patient, and the somatic repercussions of the emotional disturbances.

In the 4th year, we realize a similar task, but, as is natural, in a more specialized manner in Surgery and Obstetrics, and in the 5th year in Pediatrics, adding the necessary Social Psychology elements in Preventive Medicine to carry out a competent sanitary campaign.

The sixth year is dedicated to the rotating internship system.

The Department of Psychiatry explains Psychiatric Propedeutics in the 3rd and 4th years, and Clinical Psychiatry in the 5th.

Our Department, together with the Psychiatric Department for residents in Psychiatry, explains the Neurophysiology (Neurophysiologie) and Psychological (Paycheological) aspects and, in the post-graduate term, dedicates three years for them to become specialists.

A course on Psychotherapy is being organised for the post-graduates so as to create psychotherapists.

At present we have the following staff, which divides the work among themselves:

6 professors  
4 auxiliaries  
4 psychiatrists  
3 graduated instructors  
6 undergraduate instructors  
40 student helpers

As we do not have many technicians, since this is an underdeveloped country, we have to work in a dual capacity for the moment—teaching and investigating—using a third of our time in teaching and two thirds for investigation.

I just finished a text on Medical Psychology (Psvchology) in three volumes, of which the first is already out, the second is in press, coming out during the first months of the coming year, and I am almost finished with the third.

This is a “uni-generic” work, as I have written it both as a text and as a work of consultation. A previous index gives all the contents and the curriculum program appears at the end. All chapters have all the headings in blacker type; those headings that appear in the curriculum
