Travel Order. Office Travel Order No. 1239-8.01. Name: Lt. Gen. Mark A. Report. Office phone: 202. Grade and salary: W-13, 5/60. Title: Administrative (Admistrative) Order. Official station: Brig., 1-268.

You are hereby authorized to travel and incur necessary expenses in accordance with Agency Regulations.

Itinerary: Buses on, Tents, to Washington, D. C., and return.

Purpose: To assist the Army in preparing Course in Washington, D. C. for January 1982 to 1 February 1982.

Special needs (if included, appropriate justification).

Coordination, as required to be effected by originating office: DD/P; other operational areas; theater clearance if obtainable.

Maximum per diem allowance is authorized in accordance with Agency Regulations. Advance of funds is authorised. Estimated cost of travel: $25.00.

Travel to begin on or about: A.D. 1/27/82. Terminating approximately: 1-21.

Certification by processing branch: Certified a True Copy. Signed copy on file in Central Processing Branch. Reviewed. No change necessary. Amended as indicated.

Mode of travel: Air.

Allowance if privately acquired automobile available if applicable. 1st & 2nd cents please not to encore Col. B/C in carrier. 1st & 2nd cents please using PC account with to the Government. HMS.

Signature.

The change of official station indicated is effected in the interest of the Government and not for your personal convenience in connection with change of station. You are authorized to transport your immediate family, your household goods, personal signal effects, subject to weight limits, restrictions and provisions as set forth in Agency Regulations.

Travel to first post of duty abroad including expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal equipment and automobile is authorized.

Return from post of duty abroad. Information on expenses of transportation of immediate family, household goods, personal effects and automobile is authorized. 1-20.

Dependents to travel with employer. Dependents to travel within one year of employer.

Temporary duty.

Name and title of authorizing official: Deputy Assistant Divisional, CO. 2 Jun 52. Signature of authorizing official.
