ADY-2038

Kolchakov, attaché in the Cultural Office, invited Sanchez to a cocktail party being given at the Palacio de Bellas Artes that same day in honor of Maestro Herrera de la Fuente, who was leaving for Europe. Sanchez apologized for not having been able to notify them sooner, but stated that he had been sick. He informed Kolchakov that Jay Fawalowski, cultural attaché of the Polish legation, was going to attend and that he thought it would be very interesting for the people from the Soviet Embassy to speak with the people who were going to be there. Kolchakov promised he would do everything possible to be there.

b. On 13 September Sanchez Arriola apologized to Kolchakov for not having come that morning and said he had been with Kolchakov the night before. Kolchakov was aware of this and said arrangements had been made. Sanchez inquired about some pictures, but Kolchakov knew nothing about them and was leaving the next day for San Luis Potosi, so Kolchakov would talk to him about it later.

c. Arrangements were made for the Ambassador to see Miguel Alvarez (Alvaraz) Acosta, Director of Bellas Artes, at 1:30 p.m. on Monday, 24 September.

2. IICHR (Mexican-Russian Institute for Cultural Interchange)

a. Kolchakov contacted the IICHR on 13 September and told Tomas Chavez Morado that it would not be necessary for the Institute to send over an operator and projector, as they had been able to obtain a 35mm copy of the films they were going to show.

b. On 25 September the president of the Sociedad Guerrerense contacted the Soviet Embassy and requested some motion pictures to take on a cultural tour through his state of Guerrero. He was referred to the IICHR, as the films were not kept at the Embassy.

d. Specific Cultural Activities of the Embassy:

1. Arts

a. Ignacio Aruz Rodiles, prominent Mexican leftist in education and artistic circles, informed Kolchakov on 7 September that he had received at the Comité del Trece a letter from the Soviet Painters' Federation or Union, and would like to talk to Kolchakov concerning it, because it was related to a plan which they had already taken up at the Embassy about Mexican cultural relations. An exposition of Mexican paintings would be ready to leave China around the end of November and they must decide whether it would return to Mexico, or whether
