Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Hicks continues to perform with exceptional proficiency. In April 1972 he was granted a Quality Step Increase in recognition and as proof of the high esteem in which he is held by his supervisor in the Clandestine Service.

Mr. Hicks' services have been particularly valuable during this reporting period because of DDP's increased concern regarding the strict maintenance of operational security in the dissemination of its intelligence information. Mr. Hicks has been instrumental in referring many reports when, in the opinion of IW officers, the authentication statement and the manner in which the report is written would help to pinpoint the source of the information if the report fell into unauthorized hands. Mr. Hicks' notations on the IW log cards, which record the action taken on each report, indicate the seriousness with which Mr. Hicks approaches his daily tasks and his contributions in reminding Divisional personnel about the essential elements of good reporting and the need to comply with the prescribed format.

The exercise of good judgment in referring or consulting on an Intel Cable prior to its dissemination to the Intelligence Community is an essential element in the proper functioning of this office and upon which depends, to a certain extent, the Agency's reputation.

With the retirement and reassignment of several IW officers during this reporting period, Mr. Hicks is now the IW officer with the most experience and continuity on the job. This, together with his maturity of judgment and ability to withstand the rigors and pressures inherent in an around-the-clock activity, makes Mr. Hicks a distinct asset in the unit.

The assignment carries no supervisory responsibilities and does not require any significant demonstration of cost consciousness.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 16 October 1972. Signature of employee: Calvin W. Hicks.

2. Months employee has been under my supervision: 38. By supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 16 October 1972. Official title of supervisor: C/FI/INT/IW. Type or printed name and signature: Joseph A. Procaccino.

3. By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I can add nothing to this evaluation. I share the rater's high opinion of Mr. Hicks' work and characteristics. Date: 24 Oct. 1972. Official title of reviewing official: C/FI/INT. Type or printed name and signature: Thomas F. Thiele.
