CSI No. 10-5

Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5

Security

19 September 1963

Intelligence services with whom Agency employees maintain liaison shall be forwarded by the requester to the Counter Intelligence Staff for processing to the Office of Security. Such requests shall be transmitted with complete results of field traces, all available biographical information, and a statement as to the service which the subject represents.

10. Notification of Termination or Discontinuance of Covert Security Approvals or Proprietary Approvals

The Office of Security shall be promptly advised by the requester of the discontinuance of interest in or termination of employment or use of a person on whom a Covert Security Approval or Proprietary Approval has been requested or granted.

11. Special Services

a. Requests for Covert Name Checks and Special Inquiries will be transmitted to the Office of Security through the Counter Intelligence Staff. Each request shall indicate the reason for the inquiry, shall specify the exact action required, and shall contain all available background and/or biographical information concerning the subject.

b. In the case of Special Inquiries, the request should also indicate what would be the most plausible type of cover, i.e., general Government or commercial, to be employed during the inquiry and any other information which would provide guidance as to the conduct of the investigation.

12. Double Agents

The operational decision authorizing the doubling of an agent of a foreign power will be coordinated with the Counter Intelligence Staff even though no Operational Approval or Provisional Operational Approval is required.

13. Defection and Recruitment in Place

No attempt to defect or recruit in place (a) a member of the Communist Party or (b) a government official of a denied area country shall be made in the United States without prior coordination with the Counter Intelligence Staff, which will immediately inform the Director of Security and such other United States agencies as may be appropriate.

Richard Helms
Deputy Director (Plans)
