d. National and subordinate committees of the Union de Mujeres-Carmen Lyra (Carren Lyra).

C. Tasks: This project conforms to the tasks assigned to the San Jose Station in SOI-46, DI EI and E2.

4. Personnel:

a. This project involves, in addition to HUMANOID, EUPARKIND-1; HUMANKIND-3; HUANIST-2; and HUGGER, to be designated hereafter as HUMANOID-1; HUMANOID-2; HUMANOID-3; HUMANOID-4 in the order they are listed.

b. HUMANOID (HU'JANOID) is an American citizen, was born in 1922 in DeKalb, Illinois. He joined the United States Air Force in April 1946 and spent approximately five years doing general Air Force intelligence work. Subject is presently living in San Jose, Costa Rica, where he has been attending school, and since June 1949, when project HUMANOID was first activated, subject has been the most valuable single agent of the San Jose Station.

5. Cover: Subject is established in Costa Rica on a purely personal basis, with no apparent connection with the San Jose Station. He is a homeowner, married, and is a fully accepted member of the community on that basis. Subject's activities in connection with HUMANOID-3 will be handled through safe house facilities to be acquired by the station. It is felt that the processing of the material acquired from HUMANOID-1 and 2 can be done in the office of the Chief of Station, because of the small quantity of this type of material. The cut-out and direction activities of HUMANOID-4 will be handled by HUMANOID in periodic meetings in cafes, bars, or coffee shops, logical meeting places in San Jose.

6. Contact and communications: Contact between HUMANOID and other personnel involved in this project is described above under Cover.

7. Control: The control of HUMANOID is based upon his past service record with the US Government, demonstrated loyalty, and the judgment of the present and former station chiefs in San Jose. In addition, HUMANOID is a US citizen and needs the financial assistance he receives for the performance of his duties.

8. Special Equipment: No special equipment is involved.

9. Coordination: This project was originally initiated with the cooperation of the Panama Station. Continued coordination with Panama, or any other station, is not considered necessary or desirable.
