Newsweek

Korean Cease-Fire Line Ratified in Plenary Session: Cessation of Land Fighting Reported

Into the chilly, rain-soaked roadside tent at Panmunjom this week swept a gust of accord. United Nations and communist delegates set a thirty-day deadline for concluding a truce as they, at the same time, came to an agreement on the second item of the peace agenda—the location of the cease-fire line.

Agreement came just five months to the day after Soviet Deputy to the United Nations, Jacob A. Malik, proposed that both sides open negotiations for a cessation of hostilities based on the thirty-eighth Parallel.

In those five, weary, bloody months proposal after ill-fated proposal failed amid the negative air of Communist obduracy and U.N. insistence. Meanwhile, the fighting had gone on, savage and costly. And ridge by dreary ridge had fallen, taking their toll of thousands of lives.

And what of the final settlement? It easily defined a territorial victory:

The present battle line—now from ten to forty miles inside North Korea—will become the permanent truce line if agreement is reached within thirty days on outstanding agenda items. If the agreement is forthcoming, the armies will surrender any territory gained in the next month's fighting. If there is no accord, the discussions will go on and a new line will be drawn up along the points of battle contact at the time the peace is finally signed.

Ratified by a plenary session of negotiators after lower-echelon groups had debated for days the topographical details, the line that will separate the two armies extends from a point south of Kosong on the east coast to the mouth of the Imjin River on the western shore. Extending along the length of the twisting line is a neutral corridor two and a half miles deep, which includes Panmunjom, site of the armistice negotiations for the past month, but falls by several miles to encompass Rason, former peace city.

But three multi-pronged problems of the five-point peace agenda remained to be settled. In order, these are the three questions:

(1) Supervising the Armistice—Each side distrusts the other and each fears that the other might use the conflict for reinforcement and re-equipment with new weapons. To obviate difficulties and to allay suspicions, some sort of inspection system is called for. The United Nations Command proposed a joint policing team, free to travel anywhere in Korea. The Communist proposal calls for a joint armistice commission responsible for armistice arrangements and supervision. Never ones to tolerate unauthorized nosing in their own backyard, the Communist plan made no mention of inspection behind the lines.

(2) Exchange of War Captives: In United Nations prison compounds are 168,346 prisoners—148,736 North Koreans and 19,610 Chinese. Just how many U.N. prisoners the enemy is holding is not known, since neither North Korea nor Communist China is a member of the Geneva Convention on war prisoners and therefore does not report them. Currently missing are 10,871 U.N. troops and 88,590 South Koreans. At Tuesday's plenary session, when the cease-fire line was ratified, Admiral Charles Turner Joy, chief of the United Nations delegates, suggested each side prepare statistics on prisoners to speed that issue when it comes up for debate. The senior delegate proposed that each side prepare the latest available information on names, nationalities and other identification of all war prisoners and the location of all prisoners-of-war camps.

Recommendations to the Governments Concerned:

Never a clear point, this vaguely worded item results from a U.N. refusal to put on the agenda the withdrawal of troops from Korea. The U.N. insists that troop withdrawals form part of a political aspect and have no part in armistice discussions.

All land warfare had ceased and that only the sea and air warfare was still going on. Correspondents reported large fires along the Communist front and complete tranquility.

It was not clear from where the cease-fire order had emanated, but from Key West, Florida, where President Truman is taking his winter vacation, came a vigorous denial from Presidential Press Secretary Joseph Short. Said he: “There can be no cease-fire in Korea until an armistice has been signed.”

East and West Continue Verbal Clash in U.N.

East and West were still poles apart and no move yet made in the spacious chambers of the Palais de Chambord, where the sixth session of the United Nations General Assembly is
