The other Soviet was named VLADIMIR (LVI), about 37 years old, and did not speak any Spanish at all, but was very nice. According to Rafael, he was the only true scientist there. (Also from Dubno.)

At the second party, the Russian woman did not come. Andrea’s American boss from the Exhibit came, however, with a Mexican man (Rafael does not remember his name). Rafael says he was a nice guy. He was about 43 years old, tall, and smoked a cigar. He joked with the Russians and told them to be careful because Andrea was his spy. They all laughed. He came with two dark Mexicans and left shortly after dinner. Rafael said he drank a considerable amount and left drunk.

CHERNYSH did not attend either of these parties. Andrea, however, invited him over on other occasions. On one occasion, CHERNYSH brought another Soviet to Andrea’s whom he said was a military man. (No name mentioned by Andrea.) Andrea said that this one was a pain in the ass because he was so serious he threw the group, including her mother, into a depressed state.

After the Exhibit, CHERNYSH started calling Andrea at home and inviting her to meet him in various cafes, which she did. He cautioned her never to call him at the Embassy. He was invited to her house many times and often sat and discussed his politics and all other topics with her and her mother. Her mother took issue with his policies. Her mother liked CHERNYSH but does not know that Andrea is seeing him on the telephone. She would not approve of Andrea going out with CHERNYSH at all.

CHERNYSH began making amorous advances to Andrea and tried to talk her into going to bed with him. Andrea told Rafael that he is a very nice guy and that she liked him, but was afraid. She said that he almost convinced her to go to bed, and that it is her decision that she is no longer going to see CHERNYSH for fear of doing so. Rafael had cautioned her about what she had to lose if she did. She continues to like CHERNYSH, however.

Andrea had a party on 1 March and asked Rafael to invite LOGANOV. CHERNYSH went to this party. Rafael did not bother to ask LOGANOV at all.
