EC-2807

Name: LADKII, Sergey Vasilyovich  
Nationality: Russian  
Occupational specialty: Mechanical engineer (inventor-mechanic)  
Position: General Director of A/C Kabel, USA  
Height: 173–175 cm  
Weight: approximately 65 kg  
Build: Stout  
Hair: Dark blond  
Eyes: Unknown  
Other physical characteristics: Full face, Austrian haircut  
Personal history: Married

Employment; military record: Prior to World War II worked as a plant director in Leningrad. After the war he worked in East Germany as director of a USIG plant. Came to Austria in January or February 1954. Source had no information about his military record.

Party affiliation; political orientation: CP member, active Communist  
Remarks: Very dull person, rough, uncultured, poorly educated. Speaks Russian like a countryman.

Basis of information: Acquainted through work from January or February through December 1954  
Date of information: December 1954

Name: GATCHIN, Petr Aleksandrovich  
Nationality: Russian  
Occupational specialty: Unknown  
Position: Chief of USIA  
Height: approximately 175 cm  
Weight: approximately 65 kg  
Build: Thin  
Hair: Thick, black  
Eyes: Unknown  
Other physical characteristics: Wore glasses for reading  
Personal history: Unknown

Employment; military record: Came to USIA from Moscow at the end of 1953; military record unknown.

Party affiliation; political orientation: CP member, active Communist  
Remarks: A very competent chief, had a reputation of being honest and fair; intelligent, was generally quiet, never shouted at subordinates.

Basis of information: Acquainted through work  
Date of information: December 1954

Enlisted as a citizen of the Republic of Russia in January 1949.

Received: Citizen of the Republic of Russia, 25 January 1949.

Equally opportune for a new start from a new beginning, equivalent to a new beginning, a new start from a new beginning, the beginning of a new era, from the end of an era.

New start: A new beginning. New beginning: From a new beginning. From the end of an era to a new era. From a new beginning to a new start.

The new era begins with a new beginning, with the end of the old era, and with the beginning of a new era that will go on to be newly beginnings. Because of this new beginning, there is new start for a new era in general and new start for a new era in individuals.

This is not the first time that the new era has begun from the end of an era, but it is the first time that it has begun from a new beginning. For the first time, there is new start for a new era in general and for the first time, new start for a new era in individuals, which means that there is now a new era in general and new start for a new era in individuals, which means that there is now a new era in general and new start for a new era in individuals. Notice that there is now a new era in general and new start for a new era in individuals. Notice that there is now a new era in general and new start for a new era in individuals.

And so too will be the new era beginning with the new beginning, which means that now is the time for a new era to be born while the end of the old era is approaching. As we will see in the following pages, when the end of the old era is approaching, the new era will be born, followed by
