Continuation of dispatch. Memorandum for ACSI, Miami. Attachment to UFGA-19569, page 1. Subject: Infiltration into Cuba by Modesto Orlando Cruzco Basulto (CRCZCO BASULTO).

1. At about 1800 hours, 29 December 1964, Mrs. Josefina Lopez Angulo de Cruzco (CRCZCC), wife of Modesto Orlando Cruzco Basulto, aka “Bebo,” telephoned a CAS source who has been friendly with Cruzco for several years. Mrs. Cruzco asked the CAS source to visit her at her home that evening.

2. The CAS source arrived later that evening. Mrs. Cruzco asked the CAS source if he knew that her husband had left for Cuba. The CAS source replied that he had heard rumors to that effect. Mrs. Cruzco said that she was very worried about her husband because she had not heard a word from him since he left with two others eight days previously, on 21 December 1964. Cruzco had planned to return in a week. Mrs. Cruzco asked the CAS source to try to find out something about Cruzco through “his friends in Cuba.” The CAS source said that he would try since her husband had been a good friend of his but that he would need some details of the proposed trip to help him in his investigations.

3. Mrs. Cruzco said that her husband had gone into Cuba to rescue Jose Vasquez Herey and three others who were hiding in the home of a woman named Gloria Cabrera who lived at No. 72 27th Street between “N” and “O,” Apartment 3, Vedado, Havana. Mrs. Cruzco said that the address had been given to Cruzco by Hortensia Orizondo Meneses (ORIZONDO MENESES), ACSI source No. 180. Mrs. Cruzco added that both she and her husband had known Gloria Cabrera in the Sierra Maestras and that she, Mrs. Cruzco, did not trust her because “she had been completely with the regime until only a few months ago.”

4. Mrs. Cruzco told the CAS source that her husband had been visited about five times between mid-November and mid-December 1964 by a Puerto Rican who identified himself as “Jorge.” It was “Jorge,” according to Mrs. Cruzco, who told her husband of the plight of Jose Vasquez Herey. During the second or third meeting, “Jorge” mentioned the name of “Hortensia,” later identified as Hortensia Orizondo Meneses, and, again according to Mrs. Cruzco, Orizondo was from that time Cruzco’s contact in the Vasquez affair. Although “Jorge” did not at any time represent himself as CIA, Mrs. Cruzco assumed that he was sent by CIA. This assumption she passed on to the CAS source. “Jorge” never identified the organization which he represented but he did tell Mrs. Cruzco that he was not from CIA. “Jorge” did, however, continue to represent himself as having official backing from the United States Government. “Jorge” was described as 5.
