Make it public that you are a pederast, what will happen then? “No,” he said, “I will do anything you want.” But I couldn't tell him that I knew that he had reported everything. I said: “Listen, brother, I don't believe you. You are a bad person.” We decided that we couldn't do anything with him. “Go home, damn you,” I said. “But if you write one insulting article about Russia I will find you, even in the U.S.” He is a Baptist and writes articles, a bright guy. And I left. He pushed aside his food and ran to a pay telephone and called the Embassy: “This afternoon in a restaurant George was frightening me.” We know he called the Embassy. He heard everything.”

Nosenko's first reference to Johnson in 1964 was at a meeting on 2 February, when he produced a note bearing that name and the date 5 January 1962. “Here I have a name jotted down, Everett Wallace [sic] Johnson,” Nosenko said. “The date was 5 January 1962, but what took place I have absolutely no recollection. I don't think it was a recruitment, but it was some sort of contact, or he was being studied or worked on, or something like that. But I remember nothing.”

Nosenko next mentioned his approach to Johnson on 17 April 1964. Although not immediately recalling Johnson's name, he eventually remembered that “it was something like Johnson, Johnston, or something that starts with a ‘J’” and that he was a Baptist from the California coast. Nosenko placed the operation sometime in the summer of 1962, after his return to Moscow from Geneva, because he also remembered wearing “just a coat, no overcoat at the time.” Johnson, who had come to the Soviet Union as a tourist, was known to be a socialist, and on this basis the KGB Second Chief Directorate considered him as a recruitment target. When the Second Chief Directorate checked whether the KGB First Chief Directorate would have any use for Johnson as an agent, however, it learned there was no interest in Johnson: He had no access to important information, and he lived too far from the KGB Legal Residencies in the United States for convenient contact.

Several days later KGB surveillance observed Johnson mailing some letters in Moscow. When read by the KGB they were found to be “so bitter toward the Soviet Union, angry, critical, that they [the KGB] decided something had to be done” to stop him from writing letters and making anti-Soviet statements on his return to the United States. At about the same time there was some sign that Johnson was a homosexual, and it was decided to entrap him on this basis. The sole reason was to halt Johnson's criticism of the USSR—no recruitment was attempted, because neither the First nor the Second Chief Directorates had any use for him as an agent and because the KGB had determined that he probably would not accept a recruitment proposal anyway. Nosenko did not know why he was selected to make the approach to Johnson, except that “Bobkov said I should go.” (F. D. Bobkov, a Deputy Chief of the Second Chief Directorate, supervised the activities of the Tourist Department.) Nosenko's homosexual agents Volkov and Yefremov were selected to compromise Johnson.*

*In 1962 Nosenko implied that the KGB received its first indication of Johnson's homosexuality from one or both of these agents.
