Dispatch: DCO — Chief, III Division. Processing action: marked for BYRAT. CCD — no obligation required. Submit: Chief of Station, U. L. I. J. N.; classification BYRAT; QUARANTINE, can be opened only by order of the President. Reference: UPT/Possible Illegal Transcripts Shipped to the Caribbean. Action required: FYI. Reference: UTPA-1538, 13 September 1975.

1. Station passed referenced information to Custos on 13 September 1975. Initial checks by the Station with the F.I., DEA, and Customs revealed no information on the individuals mentioned in reference (Donald Henry, John Brooks and John Brown). Customs was in agreement with the station's suggestion that a Customs telephone number should be passed to Henry and the case should be put into Custos hands.

2. Henry called Customs on 13 September 1975. A meeting was arranged for that afternoon. Before the meeting took place, however, a Customs officer recognized the name of Brooks as possibly being one of his contacts. Henry was thus met by two Customs officers. On returning from their meeting, the Customs officers notified the station, and a meeting was arranged to see them on 14 September 1975. Customs provided the following information on Donald Henry.

a. Donald Henry is about 52 years old. He is from Michigan. He lived and went to school in Canada. He moved to Florida about fifteen years ago. He has resided in the Keys for about seven years.

b. Henry was described by Customs as a “braggart.” They felt, however, that his offer of assistance was genuine. Customs stated that Henry always had a quick answer for any question asked of him, but when the questions got down to specifics his answers were vague.

c. Contrary to initial information, Henry does not have a boat or an airplane. Customs noted, though, that Henry probably has easy access to one. Neither does Henry have an FAA license for flying multi-engine aircraft, although he told Customs he was capable of flying them. Henry has known John Brooks, an alias used by one John E. I. Bro.

Cross reference to UPTA-1540. Occupation alias. Date: 13 September 1975. Type. Classification: BYRAT. NOC has been added. Mon-11-11/5.
