Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

During the period under review Subject's duties and activities have continued to be concentrated on the Cuban target. Subject's performance of those duties has been eminently satisfactory and has received the recognition and commendation of headquarters. Subject is an all-round operations officer with considerable experience and no significant weaknesses. His strengths are his aggressive approach to his operational responsibilities, his sound judgment and his complete dedication to duty. Due to Subject's energy and imagination the Madrid Station has been able to develop a highly effective and well-balanced program of Cuban operations. In addition Subject has spent a good part of his time in support of high level Cuban operations outside of Spain, assignments which he has carried out with a high degree of professionalism and success. In every sense Subject can be classified as a man of action.

In the conduct of the Cuban operations Subject has direct supervision of three operations officers, one reports officer, and one secretary. In addition he maintains indirect supervision of a debriefing center, an intelligence processing shop and all activities relating to the recruitment, training and dispatching of agents to the target country. Subject maintains contact with high level liaison officers whose cooperation and support are needed for a good part of our overall operations and the excellent cooperation we have received from those officials attests to the skill of Subject. Subject, of course, is fluent in Spanish. His drafting of cables and dispatches is excellent. Subject has at all times exhibited cost consciousness in the planning and execution of his operational responsibilities. In a word Subject is an excellent officer and a credit to the organization in every respect.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

2. Signature of Employee: /s/ Earl J. Williamson.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station.

Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ James A. Noel.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of Reviewing Official: The reviewing official concurs in the high evaluation given this officer. He is a hard-driving, dedicated individual who is completely dedicated to his present task and assignment.

Date: 24 April 1964. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WE/5. Type or printed name and signature: Fred S. Hubbard.
