Continuation of Dispatch. Operational Symbol and Number: ATT TO OFGA-19569 PG 4.

Orozco was not to tell this to “Los Muchachos,” presumably Orozco’s crew members. The note mentioned a person named “ALDC” and also “Jorge.” Mrs. Orozco said she did not think Orizondo realized that she, Mrs. Orozco, was still in possession of this note.

19. Mrs. Orozco reported that Orizondo had returned to her house the morning after her visit with “Jorge.” Mrs. Orozco said that Orizondo had been very watchful and that it seemed to Mrs. Orozco that the purpose of Orizondo’s trip was to attempt to white-wash “Jorge” of any connection with Orozco’s trip. This information was volunteered freely to CAS source as an observation of Mrs. Orozco. Orizondo told Mrs. Orozco that “Jorge” had only come along with her the previous evening because he was interested in what had happened to Orozco and that he, “Jorge,” had had nothing whatever to do with Orozco’s trip. Mrs. Orozco reminded Orizondo that it had been “Jorge” who had originally come to see Orozco to tell him about Vasquez’s plight and that “Jorge” had visited Orozco several times thereafter. How was it possible that “Jorge” had nothing to do with Orozco’s trip, asked Mrs. Orozco. Orizondo protested that “Jorge” was only involved in trying to get information about Vasquez.

20. Mrs. Orozco remarked something to the effect that she did not know if Orizondo considered her a complete fool but she, Mrs. Orozco, knew that such a trip required a considerable amount of money, at least $1000.00, and that she was certain that Orizondo did not have that kind of money of her CNH. Orizondo reportedly replied that she had raised the money from friends. Mrs. Orozco persisted and stated that she was completely sure in her own mind that it had been “this gentleman Jorge” who had supplied the money. Orizondo did not answer. See paragraph 26 below in which Mrs. Orozco claimed to have overheard a conversation between “Jorge” and Orozco (Crozco) in which “Jorge” stated he could not support Orozco’s trip directly but could supply funds.

21. Mrs. Orozco told Orizondo that she was still uncertain of “Jorge’s” credentials. Mrs. Orozco told Orizondo that her husband had had great trust in Orizondo and she, Mrs. Orozco, realized that anything Orizondo was involved in was to her husband’s best advantage but at the same time she could not bring herself to feel the same confidence in “Jorge” as she felt in Orizondo. Orizondo told Mrs. Orozco that “Jorge” was not Cuban but Puerto Rican, an American citizen who worked for the “Pentagon.” Orizondo said that she herself was not actively working for the “Pentagon” any long
