They were divorced 4 years later. In 1946 she married William P. Story III in California. They divorced in 1948. In 1954 she came to Mexico and opened the Scientific Institute for the Correction of Obesity located at Reforma 376. At this time she met and became friends with Dr. MARIN and his wife. On 11 December 1950 she married Russell H. WILDE in Norwalk, Conn. They have been separated for seven years. WILDE, who is 15 years her senior, was for 37 years a member of the New York law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkin, Wharton and Garrison. He left this firm 4 years ago and now is associated with the firm Shelleck, at 485 Madison Ave. He lives at the Yale Club in NYC. In 1957 she sold her institute to her employers. She has been in and out of Mexico ever since, always staying with Dr. MARIN. She also travels regularly to Europe. Her current address is 2024 New Bedford Rd., Spring Lake, N.J. Telephone 449-4230 (unlisted). She is currently living with and caring for her mother at 2829 North Kendale Dr., Apt. 101, Toledo, Ohio. Telephone 419-474-0348. She has no children. She has a generous allowance from her current husband.

8. ASSESSMENT:

Subject was obviously a very handsome woman who appears to have spent her better years running through a series of wealthy husbands and lovers. As noted above, she is extremely self-centered and is uninterested in other people as people. Thus she is a poor observer and reporter. She has a "bug" on Jews and Negroes. She went into great detail on how American "ZIONISTS" control all the information media in the United States and even influence government policy. This is a "conspiracy" which is currently engaged in supporting the Negro movement, especially moving into white housing. This is the subject of her book, noted above. She has also had 4 accidents in the last four years (two fires in her home and two automobile accidents) which she considers a plot against her. She suspects an old, vindictive lover from whom she broke when she discovered that he was a Jew. Although Subject is not nearly as bad as the above distillation would suggest, she is slightly unstable. She is very much interested in helping us against LOGINOV and stated several times that she would cooperate completely. She is clearly not suitable for a long-term or complicated relationship with LOGINOV but could be used on a short-term basis to introduce another person or to be an instrument in a provocation.

9. At the conclusion of the interview, Subject was told that, although she had every reason to interpret events as she did, LOGINOV specializes in contacting and developing Americans as he did her. From her story, there was no reason to believe that he was displaying vulnerabilities. Therefore we have no reason for her to attempt to prolong the relationship or cultivate him. On the other hand she has to contact him in order to get back her manuscript. She is not to suggest further contact but is to report to us any further contact.
