Section C.

The following significant strengths and weaknesses demonstrate his current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement or areas of performance. Give recommendations for training. Comments on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Analyze or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of inguinal or supervisory duties and cost consciousness of personnel space, equipment and funds must be considered, if applicable.

Mr. Hicks' performance during the 9 months under my supervision has continued at the same high level noted in his last performance report. He exercises great care and attention to the multitude of details attached in the processing of intel cables. He works well under pressure and is conservative and tactful in dealing with divisional personnel.

His tour in JW will be extended for another two years. His continued presence in JW will be of impeople value to new officers who will be joining the Intelligence Watch as others are reassigned or retire.

I strongly recommend that he be reconsidered for promotion to GS-14. There is no question that he has been performing at this level for a considerable period of time.

There has been frequent consultation with Mr. Hicks concerning his performance of his duties. He has no supervisory duties and is cost-conscious.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee: Certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 16 January 1970. Signature of employee: Calin as ches. Date: Joseph A. Procaccino. Signature of employee: January 1970.

This employee has been under my supervision 3½ months. Official title of supervisor: Chief/Intelligence Watch. Typed or printed name and signature: Joseph A. Procaccino.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official: I do not know Mr. Hicks well, having been assigned to the FI staff only a relatively short period of time, plus the fact that direct contacts with officers of the Intelligence Watch are not always frequent owing to their schedules. I would concur, however, in the rating and narrative comments above in view of my knowledge of the supervisors.

Date: 20 January 1970. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, FIST. Typed or printed name and signature: Raymond Villemarette.
