Fitness Report (Part I): Performance.

Instructions. For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report. For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to commit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20, 370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item B of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name: Wigren, Lee H. Date of birth: 1 December 1923. Sex: M. Service duration: D1. Office position/branch of assignment: AEN Opa Officer. DEP/DE: OS 11. Branch: Scandinavian. Period covered by this report: 19 March 1955–19 March 1956. Date: 19 March 1956. Type of report: Initial; annual. Signature of supervisor: Superjan; employee. Special: Specify.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report has been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

Check appropriate statements:

This report reflects my own opinions of this incidence. If individual is rated in C1 or D, a markable letter has been sent to him and a copy attached to this report.

This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and other supervisors.

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he may understand my standards.

Date: 2 May 1956. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: J. J. Stenger, Jr.; Stenger. Official title of reviewing official: Chief Stengl Ash D/S.

Substitutional difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

I have discussed this report at length with Mr. Stenger, because of its critical character, and subscribe entirely to it. I think
