Information Report for Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law. This, in U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Haiti. Report No. CS-311/10608-67. Subject: Alleged plan by President François (Flavio) Duvalier to have anti-Duvalier revolutionaries in Miami, Florida, assassinated. Date distributed: 13 October 1967. No. pages: 1. Date of information: 21 September 1967. Place and date acquired: United States, Miami (26 September 1967). Field report No. UFG-9090.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: Former Latin American diplomat who maintains relations with officials of Latin American countries. Source is a trained reporter and his information has been reliable in the past. He obtained this information from Aurea Esther Poggio.

1. On 21 September 1967 in Miami, Florida, Aurea Esther Poggio, Cuban émigré who is a secretary to Rolando Masferrer Rojas, said that plans had been made to assassinate persons linked with revolutionary movements in Miami opposing President François (Francois) Duvalier of Haiti. Poggio said that the first such attempt was against Julio Aton Constanzo Palau on 17 September 1967.

2. Poggio said that Masferrer's group was investigating the matter in an effort to find out who was carrying out the assassination plans for Duvalier.

Field Comment: Constanzo, Cuban émigré, was among those indicted with Masferrer, former Cuban senator, and Father Jean Baptiste Georges, Haitian émigré, by a federal grand jury in Miami in February 1967 on charges of conspiring to launch an invasion of Haiti from the Florida Keys. No coverage of an attempt to kill Constanzo has been noted in the local press.

Headquarters Comment: According to TDCS-311/08728-67, about mid-1967 Duvalier instructed André (Andre) Elie, Haitian Consul in New York, to keep close surveillance on Haitian exiles and to report all plans for invasions of Haiti.
