(e) LIRING/4 will have two channels for S/W. First, to “Lic. Antonio Force,” with false return address and sent through open mail; and second, to LIRING/3, sent by hand through Raniro Abruo to the LIRING office and delivered by hand by Jorrin to the Tacubaya apartment, or given by L/4 to some friend traveling to Mexico. In the first case, all letters mailed except the first will contain an S/W message; in the second case, all letters with an envelope bearing “Colonia Conesa” after the address will be for Howton and have S/W. L/4 promises to send several letters to L/3 without messages as soon as she arrives to test the channel.

(f) The only channel for incoming messages for L/4 will be letters from LIRING/3 containing the words “Chispas” and “arte,” and either hand-carried, sent through pouch, or through open mail.

(g) The following signals have been agreed on for the purpose specified:

(1) The danger signal will be the absence of the name Zinzuni in open text to L/3. In all other letters, L/4 will mention the name. In the event of hostile control, the child will be referred to by an alias name or an entreating expression, but not by name.

(2) “All my B-13 complex vitamins are gone” indicates the need for new carbon. “I have no more cologne that everyone liked so much” indicates the need for developer.

(3) New carbon sent to LIRING/3 will be recognized by a simple drawing, KETZEKAAX, attributed to the daughter and sent as an expression of sentiment by LIRING/3.

7. In reply to her query regarding the best course of action in the event she had reports DSE was planning an arrest, Howton advised LIRING/4 to destroy S/W supplies and take refuge in the Mexican Embassy in the hope that she would be able to communicate with LIRING/3. She did not ask, nor did Howton volunteer, how she could notify him, since she assumes Howton would remain in continuing contact with LIRING/3.

8. LIRING/4 was encouraged by the attitude and sympathy shown by LIRING/2 and Echemadia regarding her remaining in Cuba, but she made it clear to Rowton that she would not do anything to jeopardize her residence permit in Mexico or forfeit the time accumulated, unless Rowton could arrange to have the Mexican Ambassador in Havana renew her aXXIXX visa and assure her. She added that the best approach would be to return after time sufficient to attempt to bring the child back and at that time make a new contract with Rowton providing for guarantees. Rowton agreed, stating that he was not in a position, for many reasons including security, to make such commitments at this time. L/4 also made it clear to Rowton that she realized he was probably operating under an alias and was affiliated with some sort of service or organization. This came out during discussion of the contract and acknowledgment of the pseudonym, which she did not want. She stated bluntly that she did not want to know any more about Rowton than the little she already knew, since “it would be easier to face an interrogation without betraying him completely.”
