2. Changes

A) Administrative — As noted in the regularly submitted LIMETY progress reports and the previous Request for Renewal of Project LIEMTY (Section VI, subsection J), during the past two years it had become obvious that many of the operational assignments levied on Oliver S. SCUTTLEW (covered by Project LIEMTY during six months of the past project year), while completely within the realm of the RD, were falling outside the proper scope of Project LIEMTY; consequently, a new Project was prepared by the station and approved by headquarters to cover KUMMI's relationship with and the support of SCUTTLEW. SCUTTLEW was therefore removed from the focus of Project LIEMTY on 1 May 1965 and integrated into the new close support Project LIEMTY.

B) Operational — As noted in the previous Request for Project Renewal, all operational activity was suspended in late September 1964 at the LIMITED basehouse because of the potential security ramifications stemming from the overt publication of a LIMITED photograph in the Warren Commission Report. The Station subsequently acquired an apartment in the immediate vicinity of the LIMITRICK installation and moved the LIMITED basehouse keepers into this temporary location. After a prudent cooling-off period, all LIMITED operational activities (photographic, physical surveillance, and radio dispatching) were re-initiated from the new location in early January 1965. During the interim period, and as a result of separate correspondence with Headquarters, the former LIMITED property was sold to LEQUISIN, who as per formal agreement with the Station, demolished the old structure and began construction of a new office. Included in this formal agreement with LEQUISIN is the provision that one floor of the new building will be reserved for the sole use of Station Mexico City. Upon completion of the new structure, the LIMITED personnel and operational activity will be securely transferred from the temporary apartment to the new, more ideally located LEQUISIN building.

C) Finance — After a detailed review of the then-existing LIEMTY agent salary structure, selected agents (LIEMTY-9, LIEMTY-11, and LIEMTY-14) were granted salary increases effective 1 February 1965. (Formal notification and the pertinent revised Memorandum of Oral Commitment were forwarded to Headquarters with IBMA-26938, dated 1 June 1965.) In addition, as per the Headquarters-prepared contract amendment, Raymond H. G. MADDY was granted a salary increase effective 1 July 1965. There was no change in the salaries of the eight remaining active LIEMTY agents.

D) Personnel — LIEMTY-26 was granted a POA on 15 October 1965 for use as a cut-out to the LIMITRICK basehouse. All information is being compiled and will be submitted in the near future. LIEMTY-26 was actively used after receipt of the POA.

3. Influenceless

Throughout the period under review, each operational component of Project LIEMTY contributed actively to the fulfillment of the overall operational program levied on the station by the RD and other headquarters' requests. Highlights of the accomplishments and achievements of each component follow:
