If you don't really need it anyway, just an identification will take an expired passport, as in Common Market countries, up to five years.

How he got to Japan I don't know. He may have finally applied for a French passport. I thought that he still wanted to maintain the fiction of his Algerian nationality by not making any request for French residence. In Japan he was called the Delegate from the Union(?) and no mention was made of Revolution. There has never been, to the best of my knowledge and the knowledge of Andersson, any mention whatsoever in any Chinese publication of this or of any of the Revolution, and they have mentioned all sorts of two-bit publications that they have financed lock, stock, and barrel. And yet the Chinese did purchase it. I understand they do not purchase it any longer. He also had contact with any other group between the Chinese Embassy and Verges in Paris-Geneva(?).

As of last month, when they ceased purchasing.

According to Andersson. He says he has heard it from other people. He doesn't know from Chinese sources. He did tell the truth. When he was in Berne, I had written a letter to the China Quarterly about the article by Fei-tze on Verges, refuting what he said, asking what he thought of that. And he replied that they had no objection, but they thought it was about time that somebody ended the fiction—that they thought Revolution was extremely embarrassing to them.

How long did the English edition stay with Andersson?

The English-language edition was produced in Switzerland for the first year. The entire first twelve issues were printed in Switzerland on the press of Mr. Genguin in Montreux. Genguin was introduced to Verges by Andersson. Andersson paid him and so forth. But Andersson didn't have any official connection with Revolution as of November, I think, December, 1963. I went back and forth, and Strelkof, who did the layout and artwork, went back and forth to Lausanne and saw Genguin almost every month, once or twice a month, from Paris. But once I left Paris, the bank account was closed down—shortly thereafter, by Gesell, who came in behind Andersson's back and closed the account at the Union des Banques Suisse.

That ended the Swiss production.

No, the Swiss production continued, but Andersson had nothing to do with it from that point. The twelve issues of that year were printed there.
