United States Government Memorandum

To: Director, DCS for OSS (Musulin)

From: Chief, Los Angeles Office

Subject: Alpha 66 Activities in Los Angeles Area

Reference: Your speed letter of 6 October 1970, same subject

LA-677-70

Date: 16 October 1970

1. In a 13 October 1970 interview with Johnny O'Donnell, freelance reporter, he made the following information available regarding the subject matter: The head man is Miguel Talleda, who is employed as an accountant at Hammer of California, Gardena. He has four daughters, two sons, and his wife babysits for neighbors in order to earn extra money. He receives about $1,000 a month. Talleda appears to be honest, hard-working, well-disciplined and well-organized, not overly emotional, strongly anti-Communist and anti-Castro. According to the Los Angeles Police Department, he has a P.O. Box in his name in Alhambra. The number two man is Nextor Aranguren, also an accountant. He lives in Alhambra and is believed to be the “bag man” who handles all money collected by the organization. It is the custom of Alpha 66 to inform their supporters how much money they receive. The rally in April 1970 at the Embassy Auditorium in Los Angeles netted them approximately $2,200.

2. One of the staunch supporters of Alpha 66 is a Dr. (fnu) DeCespedes, PhD, the granddaughter of Carlos Manuel DeCespedes, the father of Cuban independence who fought against the Spanish in 1868. She spoke at the Maywood American Legion Post Alpha 66 rally in August 1970.

3. The following are Southern California city delegates: Eligio Vichot from Redondo Beach; Lorenzo Alfonso from Fullerton, their most fiery speaker, who owns a janitorial service business; Pedro Sanchez from Culver City; Marcos Peralta, Huntington Park. Sanchez, Peralta, and Talleda flew to San Francisco with top man Andreas Nazario Sargeant of Miami when he visited Los Angeles in August 1970.

4. O'Donnell said the Alpha 66 training camp is somewhere in Mexico, but they may move it to Central America, as the Cubans are worried that the Mexicans might sell them out.
