4. An organizational form of a large passive Council, to which all Romanians who meet certain qualifications could belong, but with all action vested in a small Executive Committee, offers a practical way to satisfy both U. S. and refugee requirements. The name of this overall organization should be the “Romanian National Committee” since this would provide a sense of continuity and would facilitate acceptance of the proposal by Visolanu and the King. It would be formed by an expansion of the present Romanian National Committee into the Executive Committee of approximately twenty persons. Membership in the Council would be extended to the rank and file by means of letters announcing the new organization and inviting participation. The “Council” of the Romanian National Committee would include members from all countries and would not meet in session. Radacenu should be designated honorary president of the Council. The Executive Committee would be the functional unit of the organization. It would appoint sub-commissions and groups to perform the work of the Committee and designate representatives of the Romanian National Committee at various refugee centers in Europe, South America, and the Near East. A membership card would be issued to all who affiliate with the Council. Members of extremist groups would be excluded in principle from membership in the Romanian National Committee, except in certain cases passed upon by the Committee and accepted by us. A newspaper would be published and distributed in liberal quantities.

5. The Executive Committee headquarters would be in New York City and work in conjunction with the NCFE and representatives of CIA. It is recommended that the position of chairman of the Executive Committee be held for a term of one year, elective by members of this committee only. Its members should be:

Constantin Visolanu, Chairman

Gheorghe (Cheerghe) Agnan  
Cornel Ilanu  
Vintila Bratiamu  
Nicolae Caranfil  
Edmond Ciuntu  
Brutus Coste  
Alexandru Cretsianu  
Anton Crihan  
Carlos Davila  
Mihail Parcasaru  
Grigore Gafoncu  
Emil Ghilezan  
Mircea Ioniu  
Augustin Popa  
Iancu Zissu
