Ugarte, 81-11 Pettit Ave., Elmhurst, Long Island, telephone NR 2-5487.

De la Torre apparently is involved with Cuban refugees in the U.S. who are attempting to re-establish the 26th of July Movement here in the United States, minus the Communist implications contributed by Fidel. O'Brien apparently is impressed with De la Torre's sincerity and ability and believes that De la Torre should be of interest to us. De la Torre has until recently stayed away from exile activities and, according to O'Brien, is pushing the revitalized 26th of July idea by personal contact rather than making any splash. According to O'Brien, De la Torre is now operating a successful painting business and at one time held a good position with Union Carbide International. In conversations with O'Brien, De la Torre has been critical of C.I.C. When queried, O'Brien indicated that De la Torre's only real gripe was the Bay of Pigs. (C/O note: We should look into De la Torre to see if he could be used in any revitalized effort abroad to establish lines of access to non-Communist 26th of Julyers still in Cuba—Carlos Franqui, etc.) We indicated that we would evaluate information available to us and discuss De la Torre with him again in the future.

5. Note: O'Brien has been working the Cuban target in New York for over ten years and is impressively conversant with the subject. It is, therefore, sometimes difficult to stay with him when he covers various complicated subjects with abbreviated statements; e.g., during a subject meeting, he alluded to one Miguel Morales, the former husband of Nellie Barletta, daughter of Batista's ambassador to Argentina, Amleto Barletta. He apparently feels there may be mileage in Morales. We will, therefore, review Morales, Barletta, et al., and resurface the subject with him when time permits.

6. The two principal action items on my agenda were the coordination of my planned luncheon meeting with photojournalist Lee J. Lockwood (201-78771), and discussion of NEKNIFE, who allegedly was interviewed by the Bureau in New York several years ago. O'Brien advised me that he had reviewed their Lockwood file and talked with the Bureau agent responsible for the Lockwood “case.” He stated that he had not uncovered any derogatory information on Lockwood and saw no reason to prevent my meeting with him. I told him I would advise him of my meeting arrangements with Lockwood when they were firm and that I would brief him after the meeting was over. (It is of interest to note that during my briefing of O'Brien on the morning of the 16th, the day following my luncheon with Lockwood, O'Brien noted that some of his superiors in Washington thought Lockwood was an opposition (sic) “spy.” When I asked if there was anything to support this
