Section D. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Be specific. In proper perspective, their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

In August 1976 Mr. Wigren agreed to be responsible for establishing and managing a counterintelligence production element for the CI Staff. He has continued in that capacity up to the present time, in addition to serving as the nominal focal point for one of our more important CI defectors. Although he took the publication assignment with some reservations, he has done an excellent job of sponsoring, processing, and publishing a variety of important counterintelligence documents for use with foreign and domestic intelligence and security services. He is well aware of the widespread respect and admiration for his achievements in this position, both in the processing of written studies and presentations which he makes based on his extensive counterintelligence background and knowledge. While he might find better acceptance with some operational background, there are also special advantages and strengths which derive from the depth of headquarters staff experience which constitutes his career. He is a very cooperative and responsive officer and is now felt to be the best candidate to take over counterintelligence training for the Agency, which he will phase in to in the near future.

Section E. Certification and Comments.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 32.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: 05 13 2.

Date: 6 December 1977. Official title of supervisor: Chief, CI/R&A. Typed or printed name and signature: Leonard McCoy.

Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance. Have attached.

Date: 7 December 1977. Signature of employee: B. Hugh Tovar.

Comments of reviewing official.

I endorse the rating officer's comments on Mr. Wigren's performance. One of the things that has impressed me most during my nine months as Chief of the Counter-intelligence Staff has been the impact of the publications program on the intelligence community at large. In the CI field, there is nothing in the U.S. Government comparable to it. With the current intensification of interest in counterintelligence, it affords the Agency a means of speaking to a wide audience on issues and problems of abiding concern. Mr. Wigren has done excellent work in drawing heavily on the resources of the Staff to collect and then to present counterintelligence materials in a way calculated to serve their purpose admirably. I have also drawn heavily on Mr. Wigren to prepare special briefing materials for my own continued

Date: 23 December 1977. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, CI Staff. Typed or printed name and signature: B. Hugh Tovar.

4. By Employee. Certify that I have seen the entries in all sections of this report.
