Provisional Guidance: Purge of Beria

I. Background and Analysis:

(This will be issued later in more detail as soon as time permits.)

The following facts, however, stand out immediately:

1. No person of Beria's rank has fallen in the Soviet Union since Beria himself replaced Yezhov (Yezhov) in 1938; the purge could not begin at a higher level. The charges against Beria (of being a bourgeois renegade imperialist agent who tried to overthrow the Soviet government, destroy the Communist Party and re-establish capitalism in the USSR) are of a magnitude comparable only to those against the Trotskyites and the Rightists in the 1920's.

2. The struggle for the succession to Stalin is developing much more rapidly than after the death of Lenin. It took four years for Stalin to remove the Rightists. Furthermore, considering the shift to the right in East Germany and Hungary, and the announcement as late as a week or so ago of “pro-nationalist” changes in Tadjikistan, the decision in the struggle must have happened only within the last few days. Beria's absence (when all the other members of the Politburo were present) at the Bolshoi Theatre on June 28 was one of the first public indications of his approaching fall; the July 8 editorial of Izvestia, the second.

3. The forces which destroyed Beria are certainly a collective group, not simply Malenkov himself. Malenkov's name appears only once in the announcement, and the Pravda editorial emphasizes collective leadership more than ever before.

4. The Pravda editorial marks a new reversal in the general line—away from Rightism and toward Leftist extremism, or perhaps more accurately away from moderation and toward Fascist extremism. The shift to an extremist course is basically in two questions:

A. The nationalities question.

B. Agricultural collectivization.

It is now clear that Beria was pro-national minority and anti-intensification of collectivization. The group which has removed him is pro-Great Russian and pro-collectivization. It is returning to the Stalinist line. Will the Doctors' Plot be revived? The Slansky trial? Slansky-type trials in the satellites?

5. Not only Beria himself has fallen, but the whole apparatus of the secret police is denounced, will lose much face and importance, and will be subjected to a tremendous purge, which must shake the whole governmental structure to its foundations.
