Section C: Narrative Comments.

I indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and moral consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Note: This report covers the period from 10 August 1967 to 15 January 1967, during which time Mr. Hicks worked on the Colombia Desk. This report is being submitted because of reassignment of the rating officer.

Although Mr. Hicks is an experienced officer with strong qualifications and abilities, it should be noted that some aspects of his present job were a new experience for him, since his past experience has been entirely in the PM field. However, Mr. Hicks adapted well and quickly to the new environment, showed a great deal of initiative and resourcefulness in familiarizing himself with the work, and by bringing sound operational and administrative experience to bear, carried out his duties in a thoroughly competent manner. He demonstrated uncommon ability to organize his work, anticipate problems or requirements, and take effective action promptly. In dealings with his associates he exercised a good balance of persuasiveness and friendliness which paid dividends in terms of getting a job done. He can be relied on absolutely to carry out a given task promptly and well.

I would welcome any occasion which permitted Mr. Hicks to work with me again.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 17 Jan. 67. Signature of employee: Calvin W. Hicks.

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 5. Official title of supervisor: Chief, WH/3/C. Typed or printed name and signature: David Smock.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Mr. Hicks is a mature and thoughtful individual who made the switch from PM to FI activities at his own volition. He was originally scheduled for a field assignment to a WH Station in the fall of 1966, but for medical reasons will probably be staying at Headquarters for some time. While this restriction may limit his ability to get that feel for FI field operations which a Headquarters desk officer should have, he has previous field experience in a PM capacity to compensate for this.

Date: 24 January 1967. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief, WH/3. Typed or printed name and signature: Jonathan G. Hanke.
