General Information to Be Noted

Subject was issued the following documents:

1. Austrian ordinary passport No. 546.226 in Vienna at the main Passport Office located in Wien I, Postgasse 9, near the main Post Office and Schadenplatz. As noted in the passport entries, the document was issued in 1955 and was valid until 1960, when it was renewed for another five years. The lack of exit and entry cachets despite very frequent travel to Germany and Berlin is explained by the fact that, generally since late 1955, Austrians entering Germany were no longer stamped in or out. For this reason, Subject can claim that he made many trips to Germany and back, each time remaining as long as three months without special permits. Austrians need a residence permit only when they remain more than three months at one time.

As noted above, the passport was first issued by the main Passport Office; however, the renewal was obtained at a substation, Wien IV, Taubstummengasse 11. This can be explained by the fact that at that time Subject lived in that part of Vienna after he returned from Berlin.

2. Austrian driver's permit.

This document was obtained in Vienna in 1956 and is valid for an indefinite time. Section B, which is not crossed out, indicates that he is authorized to drive ordinary private cars not in excess of 3,500 kg. (No trucks, etc.) The reverse left-hand portion shows that a fee stamp of 6 schillings was paid. Normally, this section also indicates the authority on which the permit was issued, but since this is his first permit, no such entry is made.

3. International certificate of vaccination.

When Subject contemplated travel outside Europe, he felt it best to obtain a vaccination certificate normally required in many countries. He could have obtained the blank document from a travel agency, which directed him to go and have proper entries made for smallpox and yellow fever. At the suggestion of the travel agency, he went to see Dr. Ladislaus Tomsich, general practitioner, Wien III, Marokkanergasse 133. This doctor had the necessary vaccines for smallpox and yellow fever, and he took both vaccines on 12 November 1959. Smallpox vaccinations are generally valid for three years. The yellow fever shots are good for six years.

4. Baptismal certificate.

This document was issued in Salzburg, the place where Subject was born.

During the war years, Subject lost all his papers, and so in 1954 he returned to Salzburg to obtain a copy of his baptismal certificate. Entries indicate that the certificate was issued to Subject, showing his father's name as Reiner, Franz, Catholic, geologist, having lived at the time of Subject's birth in Salzburg, Siebenburgerstr. 2; that his father was born on 24 April 1899 in Vienna and was married in Vienna on 23 June 1920.

Entries for his mother indicate her name as Maria Anna, née Nielitz, Catholic, born on 20 August 1900 in Vienna.

The name of Subject's godparent was Walter Klenner, who was also Catholic, and whose profession was engineer from Salzburg. The priest who performed the baptism was Erich Igertz, chaplain. The document was dated 23 August 1954 in Salzburg-Mullegg.
