The next morning, after being told by his partner that he was to go over there immediately, the two set off for the airport in Miami. “I called at the airport to let them know we were coming,” Mr. Carrizo said. “It was a long time before I knew they had called him.” He added that they had asked him what ship it was and how he got the bomb, but he said that he had to cancel the “operation.” Of course, I did follow with questions about what they talked about, so, in the general talk, Carrizo said that he could pass all that stuff through Customs, because a provincial from DIGIPOL (ordered by Braceto Fernández) was awaiting him inside the airport in Maimotina (Maiquetía), that he had his family in Miami, and as soon as he could find an apartment, he would go back to Miami, pick up his family and a lot more of the “stuff” he had left there, and bring all of it to Venezuela, the same way he did it the first time.

On the other hand, Dr. Gustavo Carrillo, whom I have known since at least some time, helped by his friendship with Braceto Fernández (who reports directly to Sr. Leandro Nera), has asked me (Mr. Nera’s son-in-law) if I wanted to take them off to “fistula” so as not to have any trouble in Venezuela. But they do not want MIRAMONTE (MIRAMonte) to stay there, because that could make trouble for Carrizo’s activities. In other words, they need my aid in finding some future operations against communist leaders, properties, meetings, etc.; it has to be something like a cell, a group formed only, or mostly, by hardly known and almost unknown people. In few words, this is what up to now I have been proposed. I have been able to find out that Dr. Gustavo Carrillo gets, somehow, letters from Cuba, mostly from old friends who want to get a possibility to reach Venezuela. Visiting Dr. Gustavo Carrillo’s house last week, I met there a couple of other Cubans who also were in great trouble in a Cuban prison called “La Cabaña” (“La Catabana”) after the Bay of Pigs Invasion (“Page Invasion”). I do not know how much so far, but it will not be long before I do. The general idea when I go over there is that of originally creating a group that may cause as much trouble to the runnin’ men as possible.
