European tourists in Moscow, his last assignment was that of Deputy to the Chief of the Seventh Department, Second Chief Directorate (tourists). NOSENKO secured this relatively low position because of help he received from Ideologist GRIBANOV, Chief of the Second Directorate. Throughout NOSENKO's career GRIBANOV had always helped him and saw that he was promoted...

With regard to NOSENKO's KGB rank...

“It appeared quite certain that NOSENKO had the rank of Lieutenant Colonel in the KGB,” reported having learned from an XGB (KGB) officer that NOSENKO was in fact only a captain.

He was asked if he felt that NOSENKO had actually defected or whether he felt that this might be a “trick” by the KGB. He replied that from his own knowledge of this matter, he was convinced that NOSENKO's defection was not a “trick” by the KGB.

Sensitive source.

He said that “he had heard about NOSENKO from various persons in Moscow. He said he had never known NOSENKO personally. He said NOSENKO was an important boss in the KGB. He said he did not know what directorate or department NOSENKO had been in. He continued that when NOSENKO was a young man he was in the GRU Military Academy and then was sent to the Information Department of the GRU for a short time; in all,

Until January 1965 NOSENKO maintained that he had progressed through the KGB ranks in normal sequence, from lieutenant to lieutenant colonel. On 20 January 1965, however, he said that because of administrative confusion and GRIBANOV's advice he had skipped the rank of major and had moved directly from captain to lieutenant colonel in late 1963. In April 1966 NOSENKO told CIA that he had never held the rank of lieutenant colonel and was really only a captain (see Part V.G.I.).

The Military-Diplomatic Academy is the strategic intelligence school of the GRU. Although NOSENKO said he attended various naval-type schools before joining the GRU, he insisted that he was never enrolled in a formal intelligence course of any training establishment of the Soviet Navy. He claimed to have turned down an offer to attend the Military-Diplomatic Academy, which he called the GRU Military Academy, because it offered too many political courses that he had already taken. See Part IV.B.
