The twelve issues were only 200 copies maximum, not—

It was still printed until No. 12, the end of the year, the end of that first year. The twelve issues were printed there. The twelfth issue was only 200, or 366 copies maximum. I still have some. Those are the ones I sold for $10.00 a book. The American libraries are desperate to complete their sets.

It was never distributed because Verges hadn't paid Penguin the money that he promised and, while the copies were sitting there waiting for some other financial arrangement, the Swiss Federal Council finally took action and seized them. Actually, the seizure was more “platonic” than anything. I understand they just wanted to say, “You can't send out”—Penguin (Genguin) had 50 copies of every issue that he had salted away. He knew he could sell them. I think he could sell them in the States.

American university libraries, you know, are extremely political. Revolution became a sort of anti-religious—if—became a sort of—it was the American press. Revolution had a success; it came from the American press, not the French press or the British press. The American press. It was really fortuitous but very primeval. You can't blame them—seeing this move to Paris, a new magazine with a pro-Chinese line, coming out at the same time as French recognition of China. So obviously, you write things about a new twentieth-century Europe, Verges, the Chinese, and that was what started it: top man in Europe, and this, that, and the other.

We had three articles, one even, I believe, in the Christian Science Monitor, and some of them had the address in. Right straightaway, then the letters—the subscriptions came in. All sorts of people wanted them.

A subscription agency in the United States saw it and started taking orders from university libraries. Many copies, I think.

The State Department took 20 subscriptions. The angels of culture subsidized one airmail subscription for the Embassy in Tokyo.

The Congress for Cultural Freedom had even more than that. They had a list of every one of their correspondents, magazines, etc. Everyone got one. So we were doing well. And he could have, actually, on the English edition, which had a much lower cost than the others, broken even. He would never have made anything, because of his policy for the French edition. But every printing and all, he could never have balanced the budget without a hefty subsidy from someone.

(Some colleagues on the editorial staff)

The degenerated editorial staff was again a fiction. There was no—can do now with—

If you've been following Revolution since, you see each month, each issue.
