LAZARO EDDY ESPINOSA BONET

On one run, the source was out of contact with CIA for ten days, which added further to the possibility that he had either defected or was working with G-2. Most of the rumors were quelled, however, when he submitted to a CIA lie detector test, which resulted negatively. He credited his ability to avoid ambushes and misfortune to the experience he had in infiltration exercises as well as extensive CIA training.

Approximately one half hour of the meeting between the source and Espinosa entailed ascertaining the efficiencies of the source in the training of demolitions, radio operation, weaponry, seamanship, etc., which he received from CIA. Nothing was mentioned concerning any intentions by CHUN to utilize the source in connection with any of his previously mentioned fields of training.

The source informed Espinosa that he had been contacted since their last meeting by Jose Ramon Egues, who is currently reorganizing the Vanguardia Revolucionaria Cubana, an anti-Castro organization. The source has been designated by Egues to lead the military faction of the organization. It was explained to Espinosa that Egues has goals of ultimately bombing the CHUN at New York City by means as yet not disclosed to the source. The source was instructed that in the future he is to spend as much time as possible with Egues in determining that organization's plans of action against the CHUN and Government of Cuba.

At different times throughout the meeting, Espinosa was observed to lean back on the ground, which exposed a weapon tucked inside his trousers at the waist, which was described by the source to be a black Waltham 9MUN Automatic Pistol.

At a point of about two hours through the interview, Espinosa took the source on foot to the Allerton Luncheonette at 649 Allerton Avenue, where each bought a fountain drink. While the source sat at the bar, Espinosa went into one of the two telephone booths located nearest the rear wall of the luncheonette. He was in the booth about 30 seconds but did not make a call. He did not indicate his reason for entering the booth. Finishing their drink, they returned to a shady area in the same section.
