Report of Efficiency Rating.

U.S. Civil Service Commission.

Administrative—Unofficial. Official. Regular (X). Special. Probational.

As of 3/19/49, based on performance during period from 9/19/48 to 3/19/49.

William P. Burke, Jr., Intelligence Officer, P-8.  
Name of employee: William P. Burke, Jr. Title of position, service, and grade: Intelligence Officer, P-8.

Organization: 00, Contact.

Instructions: On lines below, mark employees V if adequate, – if weak, + if outstanding. Study the instructions in the Rating Official's Guide, C. S. C. Form No. 3823A. Underline the elements which are especially important in the position. Rate only on elements pertinent to the position. Do not rate on elements in italics except for employees in administrative, supervisory, or planning positions. Rate administrative, supervisory, and planning functions on elements in italics.

Check one: Administrative, supervisory, or planning. All others.

(1) Maintenance of equipment, tools, instruments.  
(2) Mechanical skill.  
(3) Skill in the application of techniques and procedures.  
(4) Presentability of work (appropriateness of arrangement and appearance of work).  
(5) Attention to broad phases of assignments.  
(6) Attention to pertinent detail.  
(7) Accuracy of operations.  
(8) Accuracy of final results.  
(9) Accuracy of judgments or decisions.  
(10) Effectiveness in presenting ideas or facts.  
(11) Industry.  
(12) Rate of progress on or completion of assignments.  
(13) Amount of acceptable work produced. Is mark based on production records? Yes or no.  
(14) Ability to organize his work.

State any other elements considered:  
(A)  
(B)  
(C)

(15) Effectiveness in meeting and dealing with others.  
(16) Cooperativeness.  
(17) Initiative.  
(18) Resourcefulness.  
(19) Dependability.  
(20) Physical fitness for the work.  
(21) Effectiveness in planning broad programs.  
(22) Effectiveness in adapting the work program to broader or related programs.  
(23) Effectiveness in devising procedures.  
(24) Effectiveness in laying out work and establishing standards of performance for subordinates.  
(25) Effectiveness in directing, reviewing, and checking the work of subordinates.  
(26) Effectiveness in instructing, training, and developing subordinates in the work.  
(27) Effectiveness in promoting high working morale.  
(28) Effectiveness in determining space, personnel, and equipment needs.  
(29) Effectiveness in setting and obtaining adherence to time limits and deadlines.  
(30) Ability to make decisions.  
(31) Effectiveness in delegating clearly defined authority to act.

Standard: Deviations must be explained on reverse side of this form.

Adjective Rating: Plus marks on all underlined elements, and check marks or better on all other elements rated: Excellent. Rating official: E.

Check marks or better on all elements rated, and plus marks on at least half of the underlined elements: Very Good. Reviewing official: E.

Check marks or better on a majority of underlined elements, and all weak performance overcompensated by outstanding performance: Good.

Check marks or better on a majority of underlined elements, and all weak performance not overcompensated by outstanding performance: Fair.

Minus marks on at least half of the underlined elements: Unsatisfactory.

Rated by Lyleen Krigpostick, Chief Contract Be., 23 March 1949.

Reviewed by John H. Stotting, D. A. 700, 24 March 1949.

Rating approved by efficiency rating committee, J. W. H. E. Report to employee. Date. Adjective rating.
