International Rescue Committee

62 West 45th Street, New York 10, N.Y. • Murray Hill 2-1672 • Cable address: INTTRSCUE

Admiral Richard E. Byrd  
Honorary Chairman

Leo (LTO) Cherne  
Chairman

David E. Scifterfield  
Treasurer

Board of Directors

A. A. Burle, Jr.  
Paul F. Brisbenden  
Joseph Buttinger  
Henry Schiel Candy  
William J. Casey  
William J. Donovan  
Christopher Emmett  
H. William Fitzson  
Samuel Goldwyn  
A. E. Jolis  
Justus Lawrence  
David H. Marx  
Mrs. Kermit Roosevelt  
David Sher  
George P. Skouras  
General Carl Spaatz  
Sterling D. Spero  
Sheba Strunsky  
Telford Taylor  
Msgr. Bela Varga  
Arthur K. Watson  
L. Hollingsworth Wood  
Adrial Ellis M. Zacharias  
Charles S. Zimmerman

Abram G. Becker  
Executive Director

Iron Curtain Refugee Campaign  
Resurrection Campaign for Enlist Professionals

September 22, 1953

Dear Mr. Fondiller:

I have just returned from Berlin. I am reporting to you as one of many observers who are agreed that the weaponless men and women of Eastern Germany stand as the first line of defense between us and the tyranny of Soviet power. The entire world is now aware of what has been happening in East Berlin and East Germany since June 17, 1953.

But do you know why this most remarkable revolution occurred—how these people, just like the young couple next door, the truck driver down the street, the band leader—have been able to rebel against overwhelming odds? It is not only out of sheer desperation because of the insufferable conditions under which they have been living. People in the other satellites are suffering. These are people who are desperately weary of tyrants of all political shades and colors. Through the window of West Berlin we gave them hope for a better world and they have become our allies. We cannot let them down. When we do, we have lowered the first defense in the battle against tyranny over the minds, hearts and bodies of men.

The enclosed personal accounts of the June 17th rebellions are dramatic proof of man's invincible desire for freedom. The International Rescue Committee is doing everything possible to aid these brave men and women, including some of the resistance leaders and prescribed members of their families. We need your help to continue this vital work.

We are asking you to send us your contribution so that we may continue to sustain the bodies of these brave men and women in whom the flame of freedom is burning. The aid we are extending to them is a message the whole world understands. A message which says that we believe in the dignity and goodness of people enough to help them survive their worst times so that they can fight for better times.
