Fitness Report.

Section A: General. Name: Zambernardi Robert. Date of birth: 5 September 1935. Sex: M. Grade: GS-5. Service designation: DT. Official position title: PHOTOG GEN. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/TSS/TA/PD. Career status: Not eligible. Type of report: Annual. Date report due in O.P.: December 1958. Reporting period: December 1957 to December 1958. Also promotion.

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the reporting period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1—Unsatisfactory; 2—Barely adequate; 3—Acceptable; 4—Competent; 5—Excellent; 6—Superior; 7—Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Photographic darkroom technician. Use enlargers, contact printers and related equipment to make photographic prints. Rating No. 3.

Specific duty No. 2: Document photography—using Consolidated Process Camera, “E” & “D” Recordak, and other 35mm cameras. Rating No. 4.

Specific duty No. 3: Film processing, both black & white and color. Rating No. 3.

Specific duty No. 4: Mixing of photographic solutions from bulk and prepared chemicals. Rating No. 4.

Specific duty No. 5: Washing, drying and sorting prints. Rating No. 4.

Section C: Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee’s overall performance during the reporting period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
