24 April 1968

1. LIRING/4 informed Rowton on 24 April 1968 that she had received a telegram from the Mexican Consulate in Guatemala City advising her, “Consulate intervening in case of her husband; will continue to keep informed.” LIRING/4, on her own initiative, before she was able to meet with Rowton, asked Sergio Valdez and Manuel Marcué Pardiñas, of defunct Politica, for advice.

2. On Valdez’s recommendation, LIRING/4 telephoned the Mexican Consulate in Guatemala City and spoke at some length with Consul Octavio Serrano. The latter assured her that LIRING/3 was well and that he was taking a personal interest because he had been a personal friend of LIRING/3’s father. He explained that the initial hearing would take place the next day and that the judge would have eight days in which to decide the disposition of the case. He gave LIRING/5 his home telephone number and promised to keep her informed.

3. No mention was made either in the conversation with Serrano or in the local press of the simultaneous arrest of Francisco Lara, although the arrest of Carlos Persabal Marcé was reported simultaneously. The charge was listed as “distributing communist propaganda.”

4. LIRING/4 also reported that during her hurried meeting with Manuel Marcué Pardiñas, the latter at first took an “it-served-them-right” approach but confided that he had learned of the arrest the preceding day and had immediately appealed to Carrillo Flores (Corrillo Flores). According to Marcé, Flores sent a telegram in his presence to the Mexican Consulate, instructing it to bring the matter to the diplomatic level if necessary.

5. LIRING/4 also showed Rowton a note from LIRING/3, written in pencil on brown paper apparently torn from a paper bag, which she stated she had received that day in a plain envelope with a typed address and an apparently fictitious return address. She assumed this had been sent at the request of LIRING/3 by Octavio Serrano. The note reassured LIRING/4 that LIRING/3 was in good health and could handle matters on his own. He stated, “Persabal is to blame,” and instructed LIRING/4 to warn the wife of Francisco Lara not to talk to anyone. He also urged her to tell Lara’s mother not to come to Guatemala City in an attempt to help him.

6. Rowton instructed LIRING/4 to give maximum play to this development to the LIRINGS, in the hope that it might wipe out adverse reports circulating about LIRING/3’s loyalty. LIRING/4, who expected a reentry permit from PBRUMEN momentarily, would ask the LIRINGS for an extension in view of the developments.
