Section XI — Qualifications for Other Operations

1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications possessed by subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations. Subject is an artist.

Section X — Commitments

1. If it is proposed to pay subject a regular salary, indicate the daily amount. If payment to be made in exchange for commodities, subsidy or other method, specify and give details. As of 15 June 1963, subject will be paid a monthly salary of 4000 pesos.

2. Explain any promises, otherwise not covered herein, made to subject. (Example: Commitments regarding separation of subject and family.) No commitments or promises but it is assumed that KUBARK will assist subject to leave the country if this is necessary because of his activities outside his own behalf.

Section XII — CE and Security

1. Indicate the field agencies and field files of which subject's name was been checked and the results. Station files. Close friends of subject such as LITAMIL-3, LITAMIL-2, LITAMIL-7, LICAZE-1 and any other contacts of the Cuban Embassy.

2. Indicate other investigative measures taken to verify biographical information furnished by subject. See para 1.

3. Indicate whether or not provisional operational approval or operational approval for object's use has been previously obtained.

4. Date approval obtained. Submitted 27 July 1962 EMA 1955.

5. Evaluate subject's character, reliability and security, citing evidence where possible. Subject is of high moral character, proud of his family background. Sincere, extremely security conscious, reliable, punctual and highly intelligent. A cosmopolitan type, somewhat arty, yet cogniscent of what it takes to get a job done, i.e. KUBARK's too.

6. Explain any situation or indiscretion in which subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint. Subject's relationship with CUIOKE is known to Jose CARRAL Escalante and Dolores CUETAS de BRYEDE per MAXI 3450. CARRAL and de BRYEDE are not believed to be security risks.

Section XIII — Subject's Personal Habits

1. Use of liquor, drugs: sampling, farmours. Subject drinks moderately. Subj is not known to have any flagrant vices.
