SEC. II. Work Experience (Cont'd.)

2. Other than CIA: Describe work experience for the last 15 years in sufficient detail to permit specific coding of your qualifications. Include military work experience. List last position first.

From 1948 to 1949; total months: 9. Classification grade (if in Federal Service): FSS 5. Salary: 6,900. Number and class of employees supervised: 3 professional, 6 stenographers. Employer: ECA. Kind of business or organization: paper products manufacturer, public utility.

From 1946 to 1949; total months: 77. Classification grade (if in Federal Service). Salary: $28,000 (average). Number and class of employees supervised. Employer. Kind of business or organization: paper products manufacturer, public utility.

From 1933 to 1943; total months: 9. Classification grade (if in Federal Service). Salary: $7,800. Number and class of employees supervised. Employer: TCE, Inc. Kind of business or organization: paper products manufacturer, public utility.

From 1942 to 1942; total months: 5. Classification grade (if in Federal Service). Salary: $7,800. Number and class of employees supervised: 2 professional, 3 stenographers. Employer: TCE, Inc. Kind of business or organization: paper products manufacturer, public utility.

From 1940 to 1942; total months: 16. Classification grade (if in Federal Service): Eng. Salary. Number and class of employees supervised: 168 seamen. Employer: USN. Kind of business or organization: paper products manufacturer, public utility.

Description of duties: Production of properties and films and radio programs in France and Austria. Duty station if overseas: Paris, France. Exact title of position: Professional Writer, self-employed.

Description of duties. Duty station if overseas. Exact title of position: War Correspondent. Description of duties: Accompany naval and air units in combat in South Pacific Area. Write accounts and special stories of ensuing action. Duty station if overseas: South Pacific Area.

Exact title of position: Screen Writer. Description of duties: Prepare and write commentary for monthly newspaper MARCH OF THE MONTH OR OTHER; prepare and write contract naval training films. Duty station if overseas.

Exact title of position: Anti-Aircraft Guardhouse Officer (a stoker). Description of duties: Profile for air protection of USS KNOX and merchant ships under escort. Duty station if overseas: North Atlantic.
