C. Infil-Exfil Plans

1. The tentative date for the infiltration of A/2 and 3 at Punta La Jijira is 18 May 1963. The infiltrees will make their way to A/3's father's farm one kilometer from the coast and from there A/2 will be provided with transportation to go to Guanabo or Havana.

2. The exfiltration of A/3 will occur three days after his infiltration. This arrangement, as yet, is not definite.

3. The exfiltration of A/2 is tentatively planned for 31 May 1963 at Punta La Jijira or Puerto Escondido. A/3 feels that Puerto Escondido would afford a more secure point for exfiltration but that a reconnaissance of the area would be necessary before final decision is reached. Prearranged telegram signal would indicate his preference.

4. The above dates fall within a favorable moon phase for maritime operations. In addition, the infil-exfil schedule will allow for an extra margin beyond the 10 days which A/2 considers the minimum acceptable period of time to make his contacts.

D. Operational Assets Within Cuba

1. Following the successful infiltration of A/2 and 3, the two men will work their way to a farm owned jointly by Father and Santos SUAREZ, located 1 kilometer from the point of infiltration. They will make contact with the manager of the farm named Pedro CRUZ. CRUZ is 35 to 40 years of age, is married, and has an elementary school education. He has no record of underground activity. A/3 will depend upon CRUZ to make the following contacts in order to obtain transportation to Guanabo or Havana:

a. Roman HERNANDEZ, who lives a few kilometers away in Sierra del Azobispo. HERNANDEZ owns a small farm and a butcher shop in the area and also owns a truck. He is 37 to 40 years of age, married with six or seven children. He was jailed for a brief period in the past for counter-revolutionary activities.

b. If CRUZ is unsuccessful in getting HERNANDEZ's truck, he will contact Augusto MACHIN, who operates a farm next to A/3's father's farm. He is 45–50 years old, married, has no children, and his wife's name is Alicia. He was the mayor of Santa Cruz del Norte in 1954. He owns a jeep.
