Lecumberri. The judge is CRUZ Mella de. These charges have not been pressed since they were originally made on 13 November 1969 by LIEMPTY-19. The ruling on these charges, should the case come to trial, must be made by three judges of the 2ª Corte Penal, composed of the 4th, 5th, and 6th Juzgados Penales. The judge of the 6º Juzgado is Lie. QUIRAZCO, an alumnus of GERENDE's lawyer, Jorge Mario MAGALLON. Together they have, on two occasions, been to speak to Judge CRUZ Mella de (Mella do), who agreed not to issue an arrest warrant and who has finally called for a hearing on 16 March (subsequently postponed) at 10:00. MAGALLON has given GERENDE assurances that the charges are likely to be dismissed.

b. Fraud — this charge was made by LIEIPTY-19 and her lawyer on 11 December 1969, the day after GERENDE left the Villa Obregon jail after having spent a week there for disobeying a court order. The court order had consisted of an unfounded request to have GERENDE expelled from his house and to have LIEIPTY-19 reinstated there with her father as the temporary custodian of the children. GERENDE refused them admission under those terms, hence disobeying the Villa Obregon judge's order, so the judge's secretary arbitrarily ordered, on the spot, a 10-day detention. Subsequently, the judge, LUCAS del ARENAL, was forced to lift the detention after seven days, dismiss himself from the case, and withdraw from the divorce proceedings as incompetent. The judge has had to face charges of collusion from and with the lawyers of both parties, i.e. Magallon and Jurado. The charge of fraud rests at Mesa 31ª of the Procuraduria del Distrito Federal. The Public Ministry Agent in charge of that table is Jorge GUTIERREZ Cruz. LIEIPTY-19 claims that the money lent to her and GERENDE for building the house at Ladera #39 was actually loaned to buy the house and that GERENDE, knowing they were married under the separate-property marriage clause and having wrongfully placed the property in his name only, thereby committed fraud. Actually, the land was bought by GERENDE before Christmas 1965 in a complicated transaction involving three other partners: Robert Bancroft WHITEHOUSE, John (Dick) RENNA, and James Walter HURLEY, and each of the partners placed the property in their respective names with the complete knowledge of their spouses. Later the land was subdivided and after nineteen months the deeds were issued. LIEIPTY-19 supervised and prodded the notary who made the transaction, and she was perfectly aware that the property was in GERENDE's name. In August 1967, when construction of the house began, LIEIPTY-19's father's money was used, which he had deposited in Mexico for the purpose. Since January 1969, according to the terms of the loan agreement, GERENDE has been paying it off and has receipts from LIEIPTY-19 to show for it.

GERENDE has presented both the land deed (“escritura”) predating the construction of the house and the receipts.
