Section E: Narratives—Description of Manner of Job Performance. Date: 9 November 1961. Signature of employee: [REDACTED]. Mail rush.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mjr. [REDACTED]. Mr. [REDACTED] has a good knowledge of Soviet matters and generally is very well informed. He continually demonstrates much initiative and a high degree of productivity. He is stimulating to his associates, businesslike and delegates work easily. He appears very self-confident and he is dynamic. [REDACTED]

Mjr. [REDACTED] supervises a very large and key branch engaged in a wide variety of activities, a difficult job which he does well.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: Twelve. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify).

Date: 9 November 1961. Official title of supervisor: SR/Chief of Plans and Operations. Typed or printed name and signature: Quentin L. Johnson.

By reviewing official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official. Date: 21 Nov 1961. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, SR Division. Typed or printed name and signature: John M.
