Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the field administrative or personnel officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters. revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

It is optional whether or not this fitness report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I.

1. Date of birth: Tennatt Bagnall.
2. Sex: 11 Nov 1925.
3. Service designation: M Kufire.
4. Grade: GS-12.
5. Station designation (current): Vienna, Austria.
6. Due date of this report: 30 November 1954.
7. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 1 July through 15 November 1954.

Section II (to be completed by field supervisor).

1. Current position: Kufire Case Officer/Soviet Branch.
2. Date assumed responsibility for position: 11 June 1954.

3. State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months (list in order of frequency).

Case officer in the Soviet Branch. Responsible for the developmental activity, general guidance and directing, reporting and administering, and the file research of Kufire projects directed against the Soviet targets in Austria. Plans especially CE operational activity against the RIS. Maintains liaison with CIC. Referent for CE matters.

Section III (to be completed at headquarters only).

Do not complete—for headquarters use.
