Deferred telepouch.

TUR: 132307Z NOV 79. MEXI 51744.

Official during the target's visit to the border area. Subject was in charge of coordinating this operation with local liaison and with the other agency. The operation was successful from the point of view of arranging a meeting with the target, but since the target's return to the capital city, he has refused efforts by subject to continue contact.

Another effort against the Cuban target under subject's responsibility involves the resources of the Special CI Operations Group. For some months now, this group has been trying to mount a sensitive FI collection effort and prospects remain encouraging that this effort will soon be operational. This is a fairly complex undertaking which requires patience and an element of good luck in order to be successful. Subject deserves considerable credit for the progress made thus far and if everything goes according to plan, this operation should be producing within a short period of time.

Apart from his work against the Cuban target, subject was successful in recruiting an access agent against a Chinese official and later was able to establish close rapport with the official himself. Following up on a lead from another source that a local national had a close relationship with a Chinese official, subject used his native language and appearance and recruited the local under the guise of being a Mexican government official who wanted to monitor the activities of the Chinese in Mexico. Assessment information obtained from the new source greatly facilitated the ability of subject to establish close rapport with the Chinese official once contact was made. Subject was able to discern that the target was potentially vulnerable on sexual grounds, but time did not permit this vulnerability from being exploited before the target completed his tour and departed the country. Station regrets that a lead to this target was not identified earlier. But this does not detract from the professional manner in which subject exploited every opportunity to push this case forward against an unrealistic deadline.

This reporting period has again been one of considerable activity on the part of subject in which he has demonstrated his talent for operations and particularly his ability to
