Read instructions carefully before completing. Type or print; avoid using light-colored inks.

Note that your qualifications are a matter of computer record; they must be periodically updated. This is done automatically for much information; however, some must be obtained directly from you. This form is for that purpose.

Section I must be completed in all cases. You need provide other information only if there have been changes since you submitted your Qualifications Supplement to the Personal History Statement or a previous update form. If you are in doubt whether information has been previously submitted, enter it in the appropriate section. The signed and dated form should be returned through administrative channels to the File Room, Office of Personnel, Room SE-13, Headquarters, whether information is added or not.

Additionally, a qualifications update may take place at any time there is information to be added or changed, simply by completing and returning an update form on your initiative.

Section I: Biographic and Position Data. MP. Ser. No.: C13E942. Name: Hunt E. Howard. Date of birth: October 9, 1918.

Section II: Education. High school. Address: Hambridge, N.Y. 08195. Years attended: 1932–36. Graduate: Yes.

College or university. Brown University, Providence, R.I. Subject: English literature. Degree: A.B. Year received: 1940. Brown University, Providence, R.I.

If a graduate degree has been noted above which required submission of a written thesis, indicate the title of the thesis and briefly describe its content.

Trade, commercial and specialized schools. Name and address of school; study or specialization; from-to (number of months).

Other non-agency education or training not indicated above. Name and address of school; study or specialization; from-to (number of months).

Marital status. Present status: single, married, divorced, separated, divorced annuity revocable; specify.

Name of spouse: Hunt Lorise Wett. Date of birth: April 1826. Place of birth: Dayton, Ohio, USA. Position: President. Citizenship: USA. Department citizenship(s), country(s). Date U.S. citizenship acquired.

Section IV: Dependent Children and Dependents Other Than Spouse.
