Section D. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section C to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section D, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Wigren is doing a quite satisfactory job of running the R&A External Research Branch. When the Group was reorganized he was almost fully committed to Duty No. 3 above. While maintaining that function at a commendable level of performance, he has accepted the assignment of running a new branch which is an amalgamation of components of several previous R&A branches. Comprising, as it does, the disparate elements of defector, contract, and staff officers, Mr. Wigren has done a very good job of assigning work and getting it done by this branch. He gets along well with the personnel and seems well-suited to the kind of bread-and-butter research and analysis which the branch carries out. He is very serious and purposeful in his approach and can be relied on to carry out assignments effectively and on time. His long experience in CI matters and his knowledge of past activities and events in the Staff are a valuable adjunct to the branch chief function which he now fulfills. He is one of very few officers of the former Staff who have been selected to participate in the reorganization and reorientation of the CI effort. He has shown by his performance and attitude a quite acceptable capability to adjust to the present Staff requirements in terms of methodology and intellectual approach. He is conscientious and enthusiastic, and is still feeling his way to some extent organizationally and functionally in his new position. He reflects genuine consideration for the costs of performing his functions.

Section E. Certification and Comments.

1. By Supervisor. Months employer has been under my supervision: 8. Date: 31 October 1975. If this report had not been shown to employee, give explanation: On TDY. Official title of supervisor: Chief, CI/R&A. Typed or printed name and signature: Leonard McCoy.

2. By Employee. Statement concerning this evaluation of my performance: Maybe attached. Date: 1 November 75. Signature of employee: George T. Kalaris.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur with the assessment and evaluation of Mr. Wigren as set forth in this Fitness Report. He found himself in the midst of a changing situation and not only has adjusted well but also has made a useful contribution to the reorganization and redirection of the Counterintelligence Staff. His current assignment requires a good deal of common sense, understanding of human nature and the ability to devise meaningful projects for individuals whose expertise and capabilities are quite circumscribed and limited. Success in that respect is important to the Agency for reasons not necessarily associated with the value of the product which emerges from these projects. In his frequent contacts with representatives of foreign liaison officials, Mr. Wigren has invariably created a favorable.

Date: 3 November 1975. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, CI Staff.
