14. Non-Intelligence Activity (positions, function, contacts, general activity):

On 18 January 1962, Subject called Valeriy Aleksandrovich Andrianov, CRU chauffeur, and asked for data on the trade of Mexico with Red China for “this year.”

On 27 March 1962, Subject called the Belgian Embassy to obtain transit visas for two Soviet artists transiting Belgium.

On 7 July 1962, Subject was in Cuernavaca, probably for a pleasure trip.

Subject called LICOZY/S on 24 August 1962 and asked about travelling by plane from Mexico to Trinidad. LICOZY/S explained that one would have to go from Mexico to Caracas to Trinidad. Subject stated he would order tickets in September.

The Station has no additional information on this matter.

Subject called Jorge Rueda to complain because two weeks previously an order had been placed with Rueda to find a specialist to repair the billiard table at the Embassy.

On 7 January 1963, Subject called Garmashev (see Soviet contacts) long distance from Vera Cruz, where he had gone to make medical arrangements for a Soviet seaman burned in a shipboard fire. Subject had an automobile accident while on his trip, which he related to Garmashev. Garmashev told Subject he would have to pay his own expenses back to Mexico City and also pay his expenses when he returns for the car after it is repaired.

In mid-November 1963, Subject went to Cuautla, near Mexico City, apparently for recreational reasons.

On 16 April 1964, Subject called the Embassy and asked that Aleksandr Mikhaylovich Denisov, Third Secretary and CRU officer, call New York and tell “them,” not further identified, that the couriers left on Aeronaves de Mexico, flight number 400, at 10:45 a.m. He also asked that Denisov then call Vladimir P. Couline, Attaché-Chief of the Secret Files and suspected KGB officer, and tell him “everything is all right.”

On 29 January 1963, an unidentified man called the Embassy and left a message for Subject to go to the Editorial to see the new edition. The caller also said, “It’s urgent.”

Editorial may be identical with Editorial Jus S.A., Plaza de Abasolo 14, Col. Guerrero, Mexico 3, D.F.

In September and October 1963, Lee Harvey Oswald (see Western contacts) was in contact with Subject regarding a visa so that Oswald might return to the Soviet Union.

On 14 September 1964, Fief Alfaro of Mexicana de Aviación called Subject to say that Subject’s Customs Declaration for importing two cameras to Mexico was valid until the 17th, and that he, Alfaro, needed information for the financial details to be arranged.
