Section VII.

1. List below any foreign regions or countries in which you have travelled or gained knowledge as a result of residence, study or work assignment. Indicate type of knowledge such as terrain, harbors, utilities, railroads, industries, political parties, etc. Knowledge acquired by residence, travel, study, or work assignment.

Name of region or country: Cuba. Type of specialized knowledge: Havana and vicinity—political, economic, and social structure; commerce—importations, 1954–1961. Dates of residence or travel: N.A. Knowledge acquired by residence and work assignment.

2. Indicate the purpose of visit, residence, or travel in each of the regions or countries listed above.

To work as Assistant District Manager for Central Electric Co., in charge of their Havana office, in Havana, Cuba. Later remained in Cuba from March 1960 to June 1961 as Principal Agent for C.I.A.

3. United States passport number and expiration date, if issued.

Passport No.: 1095961. Expired: September 2, 1960 (not renewed).

Section VIII.

1. Indicate other business machines with which you have had operating experience or training (comptometer, mimeograph, card punch, etc.).

Mimeograph, adding machine, calculator, dictating machine.

Section VIII continued to page 5.

Special Qualifications.

1. List all hobbies and sports in which you are active or have actively participated. Indicate your proficiency in each.

Fishing, hunting, swimming (good underwater resistance), photography (black and white and color), musical (play several instruments by ear), flying, bowling, chess. Average in all of the above.

2. Indicate any special qualifications resulting from experience or training which might fit you for a particular position or type of work.

Teaching and administrative experience secured at the university level and in foreign trade management respectively. Also capacity to carry out independent research at the graduate level.

3. Excluding business equipment or machines which you may have listed in item 2, Section VII, list any special skills you possess relating to other equipment and machines such as operation of shortwave radio (indicate CW speed, sending and receiving), offset press, turret lathe, scientific and professional devices.

Familiar with general scientific apparatus as may be present in a medical research laboratory. Beckman spectrophotometry. (Did one year research at Tulane Medical School.)
