Fitness Report (Part II) Potential.

Instructions.

For the Administrative Officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the Supervisor: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor and to appropriate career management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision for at least 60 days. If less than 90 days, hold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. If this is the first report on the employee, however, it must be completed and forwarded to the appropriate office no later than 30 days after the due date indicated in item 8 of Section B below.

Section E. General.

Name: Wigken, Lee. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment: FI, Div D, Intel Support Br. Grade: GS-11. No.: 19. Date report due in UP: Mar. ’58. Type of report: Annual.

Section F. Certification.

For the rated, I certify that this report represents my best doctrine of the individual being rated. This date: 14 Feb. 1958. Type or printed name and signature of supervisor: Albert P. Kergel. Supervisor’s official title: Chief, Spec. Ac. Br., FI/D.

2. For the reviewing official, I major revised this report and dated any difference of view or opinion in attached memo. This date: 14 Feb. 1958. Type or printed name and signature of reviewing official: Frank B. Rowlett. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, FI/D.

Section G. Estimate of Potential.

1. Potential to Assume Greater Responsibilities.

Directions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee’s potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

Rating number:

1. Already asked the level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

2. Has reached the highest level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

3. Making progress, but needs more time before he can be trained to assume greater responsibilities.

4. Ready for training in assuming greater responsibilities.

5. Will probably adjust quickly to more responsibly dated without further training.

6. Already assuming more responsibilities than expected at his present level.

7. An exceptional person who is one of the few and should be considered for early assumption of higher-level responsibilities.

2. Supervisory Potential.

Directions: Answer this question: Is this person the ability to be a supervisor? Yes. If your answer is yes, indicate below your opinion or guess of the level of supervisory ability this person will reach after suitable training. Indicate your opinion by placing the number of the descriptive rating below which comes closest to expressing your opinion in the appropriate column. If your rating is based on observing him
