31 August 1966

Subject (Sujeet): In office.

1. The Soviet Ambassador to Mexico was on a trip on 25 August. He said nothing about any meeting with him, except for his meeting with Premier Yeltsin of Russia on 26 August. Before Subject had left for his trip, he had written Yeltsin that the Soviet Ambassador in Moscow would be retained by Yeltsin’s government, and they had a short talk about incoherent statements. That was all. As far as I know, Yeltsin would be returning to Mexico.

2. The C/O asked if it was possible to get an appointment with the Ambassador. Subject said there had been no contact with him, and called in his employee who took care of him. A phone call from the Ambassador brought Subject the reservations for Venezuela. Departing on 1 September 1966, Mexico–Paris by air, through to Nelson. Subject was about to ask Ormuelos to come to Paris. Subject was told to let it pass for the time being, and that Ormuelos would tell Ormuelos to associate the C/O with requests concerning the affairs of the Soviet Embassy in New York City.

At Subject’s meeting with the Ambassador that evening (circled in red), the Ambassador asked at some previous time about the employees in Subject’s office, and asked Subject if there had been anything continuously interesting about the Soviets among his employees. Subject said he knew of none. The C/O restated what he already knew: that Ormuelos handled Soviet travel, and Miriam also handled non-Soviet travel to the Soviet Union, and asked Subject if both were trustworthy employees. (Note: Subject has a file on Ormuelos, but no record of this. The C/O did not want at that time to call for Ormuelos’s file when asked by Subject. But after a few questions respecting both employees, he said we would want to see it later, giving us as a reason that we wanted file information on Ormuelos dealing with the Soviets.) The facts adduced on each employee at this meeting were:

David Ormuelos worked for Subject about five years. Subject acquired David from another travel agency because David was efficient in tariffs. Subject called him a bit mixed up because of it. It was “left” at other times and “to the right.”

Miriam Ormuelos Matins worked for Subject about two years. See report to Subject, 13 July 1966. Her mother is American, from Akron, Ohio. Miriam had worked for Aeromave at the New York World’s Fair, after which she applied for a job with Subject. The Chief stated that Miriam is very Jewish-minded and intensely interested in Israel, to which she has traveled twice.

3. The C/O reminded Subject that if he is contacted by the Soviets, he should maintain his no-work stance with them. Subject nodded agreement.

PM P-271D
