Natalia DARE (not further identified). DARE called Subject on 21 October 1963 and left a message that “Natalia DARE from Acapulco called and she will return to do it because tomorrow she is leaving by plane.”

Maria de la Paz CERVANTES: Mexican employee of Sabena Airline’s downtown office. Subject has made travel arrangements with CERVANTES. On 16 April 1962, CERVANTES called the Embassy to invite Soviets to a dinner she was giving for Igor OISTRAKH, the violinist, to which Subject invited himself.

Comment: The entire guest list consisted of RIS types.

CERVANTES and Subject have a friendly relationship and on one occasion after she had taken care of some problems with passports for him, Subject asked what he owed her. The answer was “caviar.” Subject then asked what else; CERVANTES replied, “a kiss.”

Dr. Emilian SORIANO: Medical doctor used by Soviet Embassy personnel. Subject was in contact with SORIANO on several occasions because his wife required an operation.

Lorenzo ZELAYA Romero: Honduran Communist and member of the PPS in Mexico. ZELAYA called Subject on 4 January 1963 to ask if Subject had heard anything about Rafael LNU (not further identified). Subject has been in subsequent contact with ZELAYA for unknown reasons.

Jorge de la GARZA Corcho: Employee of La Libertad Cía Gral de Seguros, S.A. Insurance Company. Subject was in contact with GARZA following his car accident in Vera Cruz.

Terro de WANSTRON or WANSTROHM (phonetic): Swedish citizen. On 12 November 1963, WANSTRON called the Soviet Embassy and asked to speak to Mr. Andre PURITS (phonetic), later spelling it as Anheny PYRCZ, who allegedly worked for the Soviet Embassy in Mexico, in the Trade Commissions Department. WANSTRON stated he had met this man in a restaurant in Oaxaca and related his problem of finding a ship on which to travel to Europe. The unidentified man suggested he call the Soviet Embassy, which WANSTRON did, and was referred to Subject, with whom he spoke. On 13 November 1963, Subject told WANSTRON there was a Polish Ocean Lines Co., at Alvaro Obregon 223-102, leaving Vera Cruz and going to Bremen, Germany, and Gdynia, Poland. WANSTRON thought Bremen would suit their purpose. Subject gave WANSTRON the telephone number of the company and was most solicitous about WANSTRON’s arranging proper accommodations.

Comment: The response of the Soviet Embassy officials was very unusual in this case. Requests of this nature are usually brushed aside and most often in a very rude manner. Judging by his non-British accent and almost flawless English, WANSTRON must have lived in the U.S. or Canada for some time.
