Fitness Report.

Section A. Name: WIGGREN, Lee II. Service designation: D Op. O Officer. Career staff status: Not eligible; member; pending; declined; denied. Date report due in O.P.: 10. Re-reporting period: From 1-Jan. ’61 to Sept. ’61; To 1-Jan. ’61. General. Date of birth: 12-1-23. Type of report: Initial; annual; reassignment supervisor; reassignment employer; special (specify). Employer serial number: 106150.

Section B. Evaluation of performance of specific duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating number which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1—Unsatisfactory; 2—Barely adequate; 3—Acceptable; 4—Competent; 5—Excellent; 6—Superior; 7—Outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Supervises and reviews work of section, including 9 research analysts and 4 clerks. Rating No.: 7.

Specific duty No. 4: Gives lectures and briefings to Agency and foreign officials as required. Rating No.: 7.

Specific duty No. 5: Effects coordination with CI Staff, CE, OM, and others on CI research matters.

Specific duty No. 6: Establishes divisional criteria for records and methods of information processing required for CI research. Rating No.: 6.

Specific duty No. 2: Plans and implements divisional research program on Soviet Intelligence. D.E.S.I. Rating No.: 6.

Specific duty No. 3. Rating No.: 7.

Section C. Evaluation of overall performance in current position. Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee’s overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1—Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements. 2—Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects. 3—Performance clearly meets basic requirements. 4—Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements. 5—Performance in every important respect is superior. 6—Performance in every respect is outstanding.

Section D. Description of the employee. In the rating boxes below, check X the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee. 1—Least possible degree. 2—Limited degree. 3—Normal degree. 4—Above average degree. 5—Outstanding degree.
