Memorandum of Oral Commitments

Date: 13 June 1963

To: Chief, Finance Division  
Via: Contract Approving Officer  
From: Chief of Station, Mexico City

Subject: Engagement of LUVII.9 as Independent Contractor.

1. Term and Project Duration: The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project UNIVIS OPS and is chargeable to MTP. The effective date of the oral contract is 15 June 1963, subject to termination by CEYONE upon 30 days' actual notice.

2. Security Approval: The appropriate security approval for subject's use has been obtained. Type POA. Date requested: 27 July 1962. HCR 19455.

3. Citizenship: Subject is a foreign national.

4. Compensation: The subject will be paid $4,000.00 per month. The approximate equivalent of this amount in PERPETUAL currency is 320 dollars. Subject will receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to a month's salary. Other compensations in the nature of bonus commitments, e.g., paid vacations, etc., include birthdays and holidays, from approval of $208.

5. Payment: Subject to PERPETUAL income taxes, payments and/or deductions will be made in the following manner:

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence: Subject will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence allowances. The following commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to accommodate increased cost-of-living and quarters expenses:

7. Operational Expenses: Subject will not be reimbursed for operational travel. Subject will not be reimbursed for operational expenses. State nature of any operational expenses for which subject will be reimbursed:

8. Contingent Obligations: The following have not been promised the individual but may have to be set by CEYONE. Give reason for each contingent obligation:

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

Signed: Clyde K. Shuck  
Case Officer

Reviewed: Contract Approving Officer

Approved: Hillard (Forty)  
Field Contracting Officer (JOS)

Distribution: 3 authentic copies to Eqs.; 1 File P (c.79); 1 Support.
