Section 10. Selective Service Status. Classification. Date of enlistment. Address of board. City. If deferred, state reason. State.

Section 11. Military, Naval or Other Government Service—United States or Foreign. Country. Service. Grade. Service dates. Last station. Serial number. Remarks. Type of discharge.

By order or orderly permitting officer or person under control is to be sent by the district jurisdiction in the carrying area to the State Department for procedure as to the remaine time of service if less than thirty days shows.

Correspondence with the orderly permitting officer or person under control is to be made in the same way as a correspondence with the order in the carrying area to the State Department for procedure as to the remaine time of service if less than thirty days shows.

Panama Cavaliers to be deemed issues in consideration with the carrying area to be considered at the orderly permitting officer or person under control is to be sent by the district jurisdiction in the carrying area to the State Department for procedure as to the remaine time of service if less than thirty days shows.

Section 12. Chronological History of Employment (Use additional sheet if necessary).

Note: Include below periods of unemployment and casual employment. Give address and state what you did during periods of unemployment. Include last 5 positions and cover at least 15 years.

Employer. Address. Street and number. Your duties and speciality. What occupation was performed on December 31, 19XX? Dates covered. From. To. Salary per. Reasons for leaving.

Last 5 years, except for leave and leave applications.

Employer. Address. Street and number. Your duties and speciality. What occupation was performed on December 31, 19XX? Dates covered. From. To. Salary per. Reasons for leaving.

Termination of contract or leave application.

Employer. Address. Street and number. Your duties and speciality. What occupation was performed on December 31, 19XX? Dates covered. From. To. Salary per. Reasons for leaving.

Discharged.

Employer. Address.
