17 April 1962

Subject: LIMING/4 report on visit to LIMING offices.

1. Rowton met with LIMING/4 (LL: 3/4) at the Mississippi Restaurant from about 2035 until 2115 on 17/4/63 to debrief her on her visit to the LIMING office earlier that day. LIMING/4 (LL:1NG/4) was obviously worried, and said so at one point, about LIMING/3 in view of the total absence of any news or communication from him. Rowton pretended to be even more ignorant of LIMING/3's current whereabouts than LIMING/4 herself, and asked anxiously whether she had learned anything from Sardoval or Sergio Valdez. LIMING/4 replied that Sergio had told her that Raúl Moreno, while driving LIMING/3 and Lara to Chiapas, had had an accident in the car that had proved very costly to him, although fortunately no injuries resulted to anyone. Valdez continued that Raúl had to appeal to his father for money to cover the expenses involved in getting the car running again. Valdez did not know what had happened to LIMING/3 and Lara after Raúl Moreno left them, apparently en route to Chiapas, and could not provide any further information.

2. As to Landoval, LIMING/4 told Rowton that the latter had again telephoned her to offer any help she might need but did not have any news from Lara or LIMING/3. LIMING/4 gave Rowton the home address of Francisco Lara as care of Martha I. Lara de Rodriguez, 16 Avenida 20-7a, Zona 12, Guatemala, Guatemala, tel: 46-17-17.

3. LIMING/4 then reported that she had visited LIMING/9's office as requested by Rowton and managed to get another look at the bookcase cabinet in the corner of the room. She commented that on entering the premises she was surprised to find that the typewriter, German make, previously located in the middle office, that used by Mirabal, had been moved into the back office of LIMING/3 and that Rosita (Posita), the wife of Luna, was struggling with two fingers to type out something as she entered. LIMING/4 said that LIMING/9 was quite cordial to her, invited her in for a coffee, and presented her with five tickets to the ballet performance that evening. When LIMING/4 asked him whether anything had come in regarding her re-entry permit, the latter immediately began opening the mail on his desk with the comment that perhaps a reply had arrived that morning and he would check at once. After looking through the mail he replied in the negative but did not discourage LIMING/4 from hoping that the reply would be in soon.

4. LIMING/4 then stated to Rowton that she noticed that the cabinet in the corner of the room was bigger and lower than she had recalled from previous visits and had legs about two inches high. She added that the cabinet, which was divided into two sections, had a shelf on the left on which there was nothing but cigars and cigarettes, and a compartment on the right with a door covered with sackcloth (costal), possibly locked by key.
