3. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions: State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties that should be considered in rating this duty. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty. For supervisors, utility to a person to whom they are assigned, rate as a specific duty; do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with the same duty at a similar level of responsibility. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties. Be specific.

Examples of duties that might be rated: Oral briefing; RAS and uses area knowledge; giving lectures; develops new programs; conducting seminars; analyzes industrial reports; writing technical reports; manages files; conducting external liaison; operates radio; typing; coordinates with other offices; taking dictation; writes regulations; supervising; prepares correspondence.

For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if the supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive Rating Number: 1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty. 2. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty. 3. Performs this duty acceptably. 4. Performs this duty in a competent manner. 5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.

Specific duty No. 1 supervisor's rating number: 6. Specific duty No. 4, coordinates with other offices: rating number 6. Develops new programs: rating number 5. Prepares correspondence: rating number 6.

J. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Directions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Mr. O'Connell is a versatile, intelligent employee who always promptly accepts and discharges his responsibilities willingly. He is an experienced, able investigator and a capable supervisor. He has no significant weaknesses.

Section D. Suitability for Current Job in Organization.

Directions: Take into account here everything you know about the individual—productivity, conduct in the job, pertinent personal characteristics or habits, special defects or talents—and how he fits in with your team. Complete him with others doing similar work of about the same level.
