The party puts forth slogans proclaiming “Germany for the Germans” and “Europe for the Europeans.” Indeed, the NPD favors a united Europe somewhat along the lines advocated by De Gaulle. Europe, it holds, should be completely independent of the US, and possess its own nuclear deterrent. It should be built on a Franco-German alliance that smaller European countries sooner or later would have to join. The NPD would welcome the decay of NATO as signaling the end of sterile policies which do not serve Germany’s real interests.

In seeking to gain the broadest popular acceptance, the party avoids affirming the more extreme aspects of Nazi ideology. There is, for example, no obvious anti-Semitism in the party program and Jews technically could become party members. The private attitudes of the leadership, however, are said to resemble traditional Nazi anti-Semitism closely. The NPD makes vague references, moreover, to the importance of “blood ties,” rejects evidence relating to the Nazi extermination policy, makes derogatory references to the Jews in the party press, and denounces aid to Israel.

In recent campaigning in Lower Saxony, NPD spokesmen shifted tactics somewhat by no longer stressing issues obviously associated with the Nazi period such as war guilt and reparations. Instead, they sought to exploit current grievances including the economic recession, unemployment, lack of progress on reunification, and what they called the unreliability of NATO.

Future Prospects

The NPD’s failure to maintain the momentum of last fall’s successes in this year’s state elections in Schleswig-Holstein, Rhineland-Palatinate, and Lower Saxony is a serious blow to the party’s hopes. The squabble among the leadership apparently reinforced the feeling among uncommitted elements that casting a protest vote for the NPD was not worthwhile under present circumstances. The widespread discontent among farmers over government economy measures did not result in a significant shift of votes to the NPD. Moreover, there has been a strong resurgence of general confidence in the Bonn government. Although the NPD benefited last fall from the popular dissatisfaction with the Erhard government, the grand coalition headed by CDU Chancellor Kiesinger has displayed vigor and decisiveness which has been rewarded at the polls.

Even if the NPD were to follow its forerunners into oblivion it would not mark the end of rightist extremism. A portion of the German electorate will remain receptive to this kind of appeal. In the absence of a party such as the NPD, right-wing voters tend to give their support to one of the insignificant splinter parties, or to one of the more conservative established parties, such as the FDP, when they vote at all.
