Section C. Narrative Comments.

During the period of this report, Subject has continued to show an outstanding proficiency in the supervision of the Field Agents under his control. He has continued to maintain the morale of his agents and to keep them at a high level of proficiency by a strong training schedule and by planning and executing outstanding operations in the field of reconnaissance, deception, and Special Operations Teams. During the last four months he has also had the responsibility of forming and training three additional Infiltration Craft Crews. Subject formed two Special Operations-Infiltration/Exfiltration Teams and conducted one infil/exfil operation into PBRUMEN. Subject has remained active in testing new equipment and techniques for possible use by the Station. Subject has an excellent concept of Special Operations-PM techniques and acts as advisor to Chief of Special Operations Branch on PM-type activities in Special Operations. Subject continues to provide reports on exilio (exile) activities in all areas and is constantly pushing his Agents in this field. He is a hard worker and is a capable administrator and supervisor. He knows his job, does not need close supervision, and has shown ability to branch out into other fields of WOFACT activities. He is cost- and security-conscious and has shown that he is effective in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and operational funds.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 1 December 1965. Signature of employee: /s/ Irving G. DEVONSKO (signed in pseudonym on Field Transmittal).

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 18 months. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Special Operations Branch. Type or printed name and signature: /s/ George J. French, Jr. (signed in pseudonym on Field Transmittal).

Comments of Reviewing Official: The Reviewing Officer has been closely associated with Subject during the entire period of his assignment to this Station and concurs in the Rating Officer's evaluation of Subject's handling of specific duties as well as the narrative comments. As a result of this close personal contact with Subject and observation of his day-to-day handling of operational situations, the Reviewing Officer considers Subject to be one of the most capable and well-qualified senior special operations officers at this Station. Please see Subject's three previous Fitness Reports for additional comments on Subject's performance at this Station.

Date: 17 March 1967. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief of Station. Type or printed name and signature: /s/ Robert B. Moore (signed in pseudonym on Field Transmittal).
