28 February 1963

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: LITAMIL-9, Report of TDY, Andrew S. Parmers

1. During 21–26 February 1963, Andrew S. Parmers traveled from Headquarters to Mexico City on TDY to train LITAMIL-9 on various clandestine operational techniques, including SW. Upon arrival in Mexico City, Parmers ascertained that LITAMIL-9 allegedly became of moral inhibitions, was unwilling to receive training, and was also unwilling to accept the SW system Headquarters had issued for him, and which Parmers had carried to Mexico City. Nevertheless, Parmers met LITAMIL-9 three times to determine the agent’s precise objections and to overcome them if possible. Although the agent’s general resistance was not overcome, Parmers did review with LITAMIL-9 clandestine methods and techniques in a general way.

2. The first meeting was held at the Station case officer’s home, with the Case Officer present. LITAMIL-9 explained his reasons for refusing to be trained and for not being willing to communicate in SW with KUBARK while in Cuba. Generally, LITAMIL-9 claimed that he is very nervous and incapable of performing clandestine tasks without having a nervous breakdown and at the same time getting himself caught in the act because of his general incompetency. Also, LITAMIL-9 was planning to stay at his brother’s home in Cuba, and felt it would be unethical and immoral for him to be communicating clandestinely with KUBARK while accepting the hospitality of his brother and sister-in-law, who are staunch supporters of the Castro regime. These agreements obviously had already been presented to the Case Officer, who had already concluded that LITAMIL-9 could not be moved from his position. The agent furthermore felt that there was no need for training or SW since he would be returning to Mexico after only three months in Cuba. He displayed a cable he had just received from his father answering LITAMIL-9’s query as to what might be his next assignment. The cable stated that LITAMIL-9 would most likely return to his present post in Mexico. The agent therefore felt that upon his return to Mexico City, he could be debriefed by his Case Officer. LITAMIL-9 rejected all attempts to convince him of our need for current information from inside Cuba. He was adamant when we pointed out that he might not return to Mexico City as hoped, but might have to remain in Cuba having no means of contact. If this happens, he plans to remain in his position and return to Mexico as a private citizen, since he already is a registered “resident” of Mexico.
