Section C, Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in mind their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Hunt continued to direct the propaganda activities of the DO Division in a superior professional manner until 12 October 1964, when he was incapacitated by illness. On his return from sick leave on 7 December, he was detailed to the Office of the DD/P and officially transferred to that office on 28 February 1965. DO Division can only view this transfer with considerable regret.

Mr. Hunt, by virtue of his personal background, has a unique flair and competence in the propaganda field. Over and above, but complementary to these special skills, his extensive experience in the CS, his sound judgment, high and creative intellect, and other commendable personal qualities contributed significantly to the successful prosecution of DO's efforts in the media field. These same attributes attest, in my judgment, to his suitability for employment as a Station Chief or in any other position requiring broad knowledge of and skill in the CS business. He is very cost conscious and an effective supervisor. He enjoys the respect of all personnel under his supervision, official and non-official, as well as that of all his co-workers in the Division and Station.

Section D, Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 7 April '65. Signature of employee: E. Schreyer.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 16. Date: 8 April 1965. Official title of supervisor: DO/Executive Officer. Typed or printed name and signature: Stef V. Schreyer; Thos. P. Schreyer.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concern generally with the foregoing. E. Schreyer, be lies indwied to recommend him for a COS job. He could do it but St. do not consider that details of management or handling of people but forté.
