Office of Personnel.

Comments concerning potential: Should have been promoted months ago, but has been prevented by lack of a slot. His inherent intelligence should enable him to learn rapidly any new fields, processes, or policies required. He is patient in seeking help from others and goes out of his way to help those who come to him for assistance. He has the ability to carry responsibility without worrying about it.

Mail Room.

Section H. Future Plans.

1. Training or other developmental experience planned for the individual: He is anxious to have a tour of duty overseas, and since he has not been able to advance in his present job because of conditions beyond his control, his efforts to find such a position have not been discouraged.

2. Note other factors, including personal circumstances, to be taken into account in individual's future assignments: After a single tour of overseas duty, which he will not accept unless his wife can accompany him without losing her CIA status, he would like to settle down permanently in the U.S.

Section I. Description of Individual.

Directions: This section is provided as an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to most people. To the left of each statement is a box under the heading “category.” Read each statement and insert in the box the category number which best tells how much the statement applies to the person covered by this report.

Category number: A — Have not observed this; rater can give no opinion as to how the description applies to the individual. 1 — Applies to the individual to the least possible degree. 2 — Applies to individual to a limited degree. 3 — Applies to individual to an average degree. 4 — Applies to individual to an above average degree. 5 — Applies to individual to an outstanding degree.

1. Able to see and understand point of view — Category 3. 11. Has high standards of accomplishment — Category 3. 21. Is effective in discussions with associates — Category 3.

2. Can make decisions on his own when need arises — Category 3. 12. Shows originality — Category 3. 22. Implements decisions regardless of own feelings — Category 3.

3. Has initiative — Category 3. 13. Accepts responsibilities — Category 4. 23. Is thoughtful of others — Category 3.

4. Is analytic in his thinking — Category 4. 14. Admits his errors — Category 3. 24. Works well under pressure — Category 4.

5. Strives constantly for new knowledge and ideas — Category 3. 15.
