12. In what respect is this person's performance on present job worth well behavingly good or outstanding? Subject's outstanding qualification is his initiative.

13. On what aspect of performance should this person concentrate effort for self-improvement? Effort should be made to improve his general headquarters techniques. This will tend to occur as he continues in a headquarters position of responsibility. Nothing should be done to limit his initiative and enthusiasm; he is fully capable of recognising the need for tempering his drive to suit headquarters standards.

14. Comment on this person's ability to handle greater responsibilities now or in the future. At the conclusion of his headquarters tour, subject will be ready to assume a key position on a large staff, or in a small station. No greater responsibilities should be given subject during the next year, during which time he will adjust from field to headquarters. As of 1 June 1953 subject became Chief, FE/2 CE.

15. Are there other duties which better suit this person's qualifications? Subject is presently best suited to CE work. At the close of this tour, consideration should be given to shifting him to positive intelligence operations, the conduct of which will be strengthened by his CE experience.

16. What training or rotation do you recommend for this person? Before moving to his next assignment, subject should be given all formal training through Phase III, plus certain special TSS courses.

17. If performance during report period has been unsatisfactory, there is attached a copy of memorandum notifying this person of unsatisfactory performance.

18. This personnel evaluation report has been discussed with the person evaluated. Additional comments, including comment on items 7, 8 and 9, are shown below under item 20.

31 July 1953. Date. Signature of supervisor.

19. I have reviewed the above report. Comments, if any, are shown in item 20. 31 July 1953. Date. Signature of reviewing official.

20. Comments: As an exception to the recommendations made in item 15, it is the reviewing officer's opinion that subject may well have a contribution to make in the CE field on a continuing basis. This is based on subject's performance in CE during the period covered by “A” and “B” of item 7 when subject worked under the reviewing official's supervision. It is felt that subject is genuinely interested in CE, and because of the high degree of specialization required subject might probably be encouraged to concentrate on this field.
