29 April 1965

16.0 In. Luis with VNG, who answers. Asks if he knows about the conference of Dominicans. Of course, they occupied (his house) like the marines, and V.G. even helped them organize this conference. VKG is not going to the conference.

Luis saw VNG's article. Yes, but they did not put on the signature. It is best that way. With a signature it would have been Luis' article. Without a signature, it appears more editorial. Luis prefers it this way politically. This was just an error, since VKG talked to Alberto about this. It was an error in the shop. Luis is happier about this. When Luis sends this to Puerto Rico it carries more weight this way. Luis asks if he charges for this. VKG thinks so, but will ask. Ask with discretion. What most interested him was that it would come out. VKG will call MO on Saturday or Sunday so they can get together.

After 1440, 29 April

16.7 In. Luis with Inge (Rico), who answers, for VKG.

VKG takes phone. Greetings. Luis saw Noe a while ago. Noe will probably arrange Luis' matter. Good! Sent greetings to VKG. Asks if there is nothing new. No. Hasn't Efrain called VKG? No. Then, there is nothing to be done. Asks VNG to pick up tickets. Yes, he will do this tomorrow.

17.0 Out to 46-60-15. VKG with Jardon, who answers.

Greetings. What is new in Santo Domingo? Quite a bit. Just a moment.

The last message they received came from San Juan, Puerto Rico. They have obtained complete control of City of Santo Domingo. In the morning, they had heard that the insurgents had obtained control of all radio systems (stations) of the capital and started attack on base of San Isidro. France Presse (France Pressa) told VAG about the attack of San Isidro. The last heard is that they are in control of Santo Domingo city. They have taken 4 tanks, destroyed another 2 in capital. They will see if they can take over San Isidro. That is the air base. And the (U.S.) marines? VAG heard a radio bulletin that they disembarked another 100 marines. They had said yesterday that, in case it were necessary, they would disembark 1,000, not 100 marines. And reactions? Hasn't anyone protested? No, besides Cuba and USSR, no one. What did USSR say? Doesn't say. He goes on that the total amount of men fighting for Boach is 15,000—civil and military men. The major part is civil because, apart from Camagno (ph) and Monera, who refused to accept transaction, the rest of the officers backed out (of revolution).

There is a quite well-founded rumor that it is not remote that the marines “are made to feel the need, to protect liberty and democracy, to intervene categorically and to find proofs of the Castro-Communist intervention. There is also speculation that there will be a change of 180° in the Latin American situation and that the O.B.A. meeting may not be result as planned (to protest against intervention in Santo Domingo).” Jardon says this is possible. Did VAG notice yesterday in Johnson's message, at the end, “the disembarkation of marines will not only take place in Santo Domingo, but this (group) will be lent to citizens of other countries, some of which have already asked for ‘our’ (U.S.) help”? VAG says that he is referring to citizens of other countries living in Santo Domingo. Jardon disagrees, then says, yes, it can be interpreted in two ways. VAG asks Jardon to send a cable with this rumor. It can be true or false. Jardon will do so. He will include it in the message he sends out at 1800.

VKG asks Jardon to call him if anything important comes up. Yes.
