Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him about his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item A of Section A below.

Section A. General.

1. Name: TARASOFF Boris D.

2. Date of birth.

3. Sex.

4. Service designation: M SD-0D.

5. Office/Division branch of assignment: 00/FDD/USSR Branch.

6. Official position title: Foreign Documents Officer.

7. Grade: GS-7.

8. Date report due in OP: 11 Dec 1956.

9. Period covered by this report: June 56–20 Nov 56.

Special: Annual reassignment supervisor; reassignment employee.

10. Type of report: Initial; annual.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report has not been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

Notes: Supervisor temporarily in another office.

A. Check appropriate statements:

This report reflects my own opinions of this individual.

If individual is rated “I” in C1 or C3, a marking letter was sent to him and a copy attached to this report.

This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors.

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands.

I cannot certify that the rated individual knows how to evaluate his job performance because (specify):

B. This date: 4 Dec 56.

C. Typed or printed name and signature of supervisor: Rosamund E Deutsch.

D. Supervisor’s official title: Chief, Industrial Section, USSR Branch.

For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other person, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

A. This date: 10 Dec 56.

B. Typed or printed name.
