26 March 1975

Subject: Contact Report on Liquefied OIL. (D)

1. (Background.) (C) was an agent of ours during the early/mid-1960s and put his life on the line many times for us in different assignments. In approximately October 1963, he was examined and approved by INS to become an American citizen. He paid the $24.00 court fee and expected to be called shortly thereafter for the Naturalization Court ceremony. To date, he has not been naturalized, and INS has refused—according to C.A.—to satisfactorily explain the reason for this unusual delay. (D) asked us in approximately February 1975 to help determine the cause for the INS delay. It has come back saying he should make one more attempt with INS before we check with him through INS liaison.

2. On 21 and 27 March, I met with (C) and informed him of the MIS suggestion that he check once again with INS. (D) informs me he went back to INS and has been given the same evasive/vague explanation: “Your case is under investigation. We’ll call you when it’s finished.” Or words to that effect.

3. (D) has extensive business relations in both Costa Rica and Venezuela. He desperately needs a U.S. passport to travel freely.

4. As far as I know, (D) has been a loyal/dedicated agent who has always been ready to cooperate and still does. If we possibly can—consistent with current policy—offer a hand to this man at this time, we will be creating a great amount of goodwill with (D). God knows we need to hang on to as many good and old friends as we can.

5. If, for some reason, D’s case with INS is murky and he is ineligible to be an ANCIT, then we should know that, too.

6. Before beating this dead horse any further, let me sum up. If it’s a bureaucratic snafu by INS, let’s help (D). If, on the other hand, INS has a legitimate case against (D), let’s find out the details for the sake of our security. (D)

7. I promise I’ll pass the word to our people up North and hopefully have some word on the status of his case soon.

Henry S. PACHAINTS.
