Contact Report No. 55

Operation: AM World  
Contact: AMYUM-19  
Time and place: 1800–1630 hrs., 6 Apr 64, S/W

Date typed: 7 Apr 64

Summary

1. Attached are two recent reports covering the activities of Jose Elias, aka Nacin. The Habana contact, Bernardo Nievares, has informed AMYUM that if he can be picked up he will be able to come to the WAVE area for about 15 days for debriefing and training. Ramon Mondejar Cid, aka “el diablo,” mentioned as having been released by the G-2 and waiting for exfiltration, is currently in the WAVE area, having escaped with four others. According to A-19, they have been interviewed by ODURGE and were told to have no contact with any other PBRUMEN groups because they could receive special training and be sent back to work against ANTHUG. AMYUM has been debriefing the five for several days with the same idea in mind. GUERTLER will get the reports when the debriefings are over. A-19 has not gotten the preliminary reports but says Alonso is impressed with Mondejar. As for the exfiltration of Nievares, AMYUM has no intention of attempting it, but A-19 is considering offering the opportunity to do so to Aldo Vera (see below).

2. ALDO VERA SERAFIN (201-326634). This subject is a former member of the DTI, recently considered for use in an attempt to defect a GOC official in Madrid. The AMYUMs consider him a good action type and sought him out with the intention of infiltrating him and his group into Habana province. He is presently receiving special training for the job. Vera’s file generally substantiates A-19’s evaluation of the man. However, local traces do contain unsubstantiated accusations that he is a G-2 and that he maintains contacts with alleged G-2 agents and informers. An ODELY report in 1963 said that Vera was engaged in transmitting and receiving messages by radio with Cuba. The Case Officer informed A-19 that while he had nothing definite to offer by way of proof, he had some doubts about Vera and cited the above. A-19 says that Vera does have radio contact with friends in Habana (voice) and that he offered his radio facilities to AMYUM. Assuming that Vera himself is clean, A-19 was cautioned to have all internal contacts checked out and to obtain a complete report on Vera’s plans before making any commitments. The undersigned continues to have some reservations, but Vera was requested by AMSHAG-1, and A-19 likes him so far. Guertler will pursue the matter further at a later meeting.

3. AMILAC-? has been told by ODURGE that as long as AMYUM requests permission for him to leave the country, he will be blackballed. No previous reports for reason for blackballing. According to A-19, ODURGE suggested that if he was to be used, he could be taken out as a crewman on the Adelaide. A-19 wanted to know if it was SUBARK that was keeping him on the list. Guertler pleaded ignorance.
