Driven out. This blandness seemed to characterize the view of almost all Britishers in the Far East, although the Viceroy of India expressed regret that, for the sake of the Indians, British control in India would “not survive another fifty years.”

Mrs. Luce visited the headquarters of the A.V.G. She expressed the hope that they would not be kept alive as a unit, but that their experience in fighting Japanese planes would be transferred to American pilots in training, especially at Karachi. She felt that neither the A.V.G. nor General Stilwell (Stillwell) should return to China, despite their obvious value in maintaining an American link and American prestige. General Stilwell has apparently dispirited himself, under most trying circumstances, by his comradeship with the Chinese and his willingness to share front-line dangers and hardships. At a time when the Chinese are extremely sensitive, General Stilwell’s attitude and action were of great importance.

III. India

Indian morale is extremely low, lower in fact than before the Cripps Mission. The net result of the Mission appears merely to have strengthened Gandhi and the policy of passive resistance. Mrs. Luce believes, however, that, in the short run at least, there is nothing wrong with the morale of the Indians and the Chinese that could not be corrected by a couple of substantial victories. Wavell (Havell), in a letter to Mrs. Luce, expressed himself as more concerned about Indian morale and possible military consequences of that situation than with the strictly military aspects of defense. Mrs. Luce spoke very highly of General Brereton as a member “of that new race, the airman.” It is Brereton’s view that no important action should be taken by the air force under his command until they are in a position of local superiority; he did, however, “leak a little,” by bombing the Andaman Islands and Rangoon (Kangoon). Mrs. Luce believes that a first-line air force maintained at 300 planes in India could defeat the Japanese in any move in that direction.

IV. Middle East

General Wavell (Havell) is reported to be extremely popular in the Middle East, while General Adler was unpopular, possibly due to his forthrightness in criticizing the British methods. Mrs. Luce visited the most advanced tank station in the British-controlled desert area. She found numerous complaints, not specified, about American equipment. In general, however, she holds that the British have done a good job in the desert.

The British in Cairo have had extensive and chronic difficulties with their various allies. A Yugoslav (Jugoslav) revolution almost took place in Cairo while she was there. The Poles, Yugoslavs and French appear unwilling to enter British air units but hold out for independent air squadrons. The one hundred thousand Poles, “dug out across the border by Russia,” were reported by gossip to have been turned down by Wavell (Havell) and Auchinleck, successively, and then shipped to Britain. Mrs. Luce stated that the
