There. Date of HAHN's introduction to the Club and to Noriko MATSUZAKAYA by George PARIS aka George PERIS was estimated by Mr. Sayle to have been somewhere between 1954 and 1957. With regard to Valentin HAHN's own inclinations toward sharing his knowledge of romance with others, Mr. Sayle advised that Security Office had established that while employed as a contract agent of the Tokyo Station HAHN had pimped for CIA Staff personnel in Tokyo.

6. As attachment herewith, the writer appends additional background data on the professional intelligence activities and contacts of Valentin HAHN and family as noted during the oral briefing by Sayle.

7. On basis of the above, it can be safely assumed that the George PARIS known to HAHN is identical with George PERISTEROPOULOS aka George PERIS, well-known Tokyo businessman and Honorary Deputy Consul of the Royal Greek Consulate in Yokohama, Japan, as reported in SCTOKY-63 and SCTOKY-64. It is noteworthy that PERIS' contacts throughout his career, commencing with his original reported employment in Tientsin, China, through his activities and contacts in Shanghai, China, and later in Tokyo, not excluding his marriage to Aurelia CZERWINSKA, have been exclusively with individuals of Russian or Eastern European background, many of them of Russian Jewish background, who are either highly suspect or have been identified as long-time agents of Soviet Intelligence. PERIS' reported route of arrival in Tokyo via Harbin, Tientsin and Shanghai, as well as his employment by Sondovich Brothers and contacts with individuals who tie in with the Boris SOLOMONIK complex and Borsol Fur Trading Corporation, smacks very strongly of the old Comintern Apparat of the 20's and 30's. Also it parallels the travel patterns of a number of individuals involved in the SOBLE case, principally the SOBLES themselves who were exfiltrated from the Soviet Union via Tokyo, Japan, to the U.S.A. and who, most notably of all, also were under cover of operating a Eristie Business as is Sondovich Brothers.

8. According to earlier reporting in the ZRGRACE investigation, George PERIS is alleged to have been a contact of William Hamilton MARTIN in Tokyo, and to have offered MARTIN some type of job or business partnership deal in connection with the rug business.

9. Mr. Carrico informally indicated that he personally suspects that MARTIN's introduction to the fine art of masochistic torture by an unidentified Japanese female, as reported by Mrs. Ardelle GASDA to FBI agents, may have been effected at or through his patronage of the “Tomorrow is Too Late” Club to which he may well have been taken or introduced by his friend PERIS. This possibility, however, is subject to further investigation.

10. As initial follow-up to SCTOKY-63 and SCTOKY-64, outgoing cable of 7 Sept. 60 requesting further check-out of the Club, etc. was prepared.
