Section C. Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comments on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or expand upon comments given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

This exceptionally competent and productive officer is recommended for promotion to GS-13.

While a good deal of her tremendous effectiveness stems from experience, continuity on the job and her naturalative memory, during the period under review she also demonstrated a flair for, and applied her talents to, the solution of relatively major and complex planning and managerial problems in the area of operational support to Mexico Station activities.

To the list of her previously abundantly acknowledged capacity for hard, effective work, talent for training on the job younger officers, diligence, and versatile ability, this rater would like to add a note of appreciation for her everpresent tactfulness and discretion. No weaknesses affecting her present assignment have been noted; she is very careful and realistic in planning for expenditure of funds.

This officer is separately being recommended for promotion to GS-13.

WH will review this fitness report with others during a special meeting scheduled periodically to consider suitable recommendation for outstanding performance.

Certification and Comments. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 10/15/85. Signature of employee.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 10-17-85. Official title or supervisor: DC/WH/1. Typed or printed name and signature: Alfonso Spera.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Conan. Date: 10-17-85. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/1. Typed or printed name and signature: W.J. Kaufman.
