The remainder will follow by dispatch.

7. Guertler suggested Curapco as a suitable place for drydocking Adelaida for needed repairs after the operation. A-1 demurred, stating that it would be needed for an infiltration operation on 3 May. A-19 was told that it was of the utmost importance that the AKL Dolores be provided with a top-quality captain and engineer, regardless of cost or nationality; the equipment was very sensitive and irreplaceable. A-19 stated that it would be a problem, especially the engineer, but that he would do so. Guertler offered no suggestions where to look, merely commenting that now that AMWORLD had made many commercial contacts, he should be able to obtain assistance in locating a good man for the job.

8. The complete crew for the Dolores has not been signed yet. Some of the crew from the Adelaida can fill in while she is in drydock.

9. A-19 was told that the Consejo was negotiating for Standard Oil of New Jersey to provide AMWORLD with its fuel on a regular basis and that the company wanted a letter from some prominent Nicaraguan official stating that this was acceptable to the GON.

10. The case officer asked A-19 if AMWORLD-2 had closed his Swiss account for certain. A-19 replied yes. The writer then told him that this was good because the $25,000 used to open the account would be refunded to A-2 and that, instead of returning it to the Consejo, they could keep it and the amount would be deducted from the next month’s budget; they had spent most of it already. There were shocked looks around the table. They had already spent most of it. It was included in the unexpended assets reported three months ago and was deducted from the succeeding month’s deposit. Henry said they could spend it. The writer professed surprise since this money was not allocated to the project but was only to be used to keep the account open. This led to a series of complaints about PBPRIME business methods, the fact that Ramsay Scarlet had recently billed them for $30,000 for something incurred in November, and whether that was any way to run a business. The writer commented that they just did not understand Anglo-Saxon psychology and called it an evening, wishing them the best of luck on their operation.

Warren K. Guertler

*This will be discussed with A-1 later, after the operation.*
