Section C. Narrative Comments: Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify as necessary by Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention of performance of management or top management and cost consciousness (in the use of personal space, equipment and funds) must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This employee has been at this station since June 1967. He has been assigned the following operational duties: he has started from scratch the organization of a second, unilateral surveillance team consisting of one principal agent and three foot surveillants and investigators; he is giving guidance and direction to one WOLDEM contract agent who, in turn, handles Station's WOLDEM programs in the press and student fields; he also gives guidance and additional on-the-job training to a contract agent of Venezuelan nationality who is used in recruitment approaches, the handling of out-of-town penetrations of subversive groups, and in a support capacity.

This employee carries out the above cited tasks with initiative, alacrity and with common sense. He requires the absolute minimum of supervision. His extensive experience in his previous assignment abroad has helped greatly in getting the new surveillance and investigative team organized quickly. The direction he has given in the WOLDE field, where a reorganization was called for and is being carried out under his supervision and guidance, has been excellent, especially considering the fact that this is his first experience in the WOLDE field. The Venezuelan contract agent has carried out a number of recruitment pitches (including false flag ones) under the close supervision of this employee, who demonstrated a fine knowledge of technique and a good sense of counterintelligence procedures.

This employee is an extremely hard worker, writes well and has a well organized mind. His operational reporting is extensive and inviolably on time. (Continued on annex)

Certification and Comments. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 5 February 1968. Signature of employee: /s/ Thomas J. Keenan. By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 7. Exhibit X. Date: 5 February 1968. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: Paul Van Marx.

Comments of Reviewing Official: I concur with the narrative comments and numerical ratings given by the Rating Officer. I have found this employee to be a particularly mature case officer who possesses an excellent knowledge of tradecraft and requires little or no supervision to carry out his assignments. His work is of an excellent quality and he has proved to be a definite asset to this station. His only area of weakness is that he must be more assertive and aggressive in developing operational contacts of use to the Station. This has been discussed with him and he is planning to devote more effort in the future to correct this weakness.

Date: 5 February 1968. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station, Bogota. Typed or printed name and signature: Richard Sampson.
