III. Some Large-Scale Long-Range Proposals

1. Film Proposal: A series of documentary films, possibly produced in connection with other organizations. Suggestion for a first film: a full-length feature on world communism, a script for which, “The Hammer & The Sickle,” has been outlined by H. J. Jarry and Stuart Schulberg, one of the leading U.S. documentary-makers, who would most probably be available in Europe for it. These could have normal commercial distribution, and special distribution to schools and universities.

2. Lecture-Tour Proposal: Building up a circuit throughout Western Europe, the United States, and elsewhere for political and cultural Congress speakers.

3. Research-Institute Proposal: This could be a normal and logical outgrowth of the first Congress research activities. It would mean the establishment of a “Chatham House” on an international basis for serious studies of the cultural-political problems of our day. Scholars and journalists, on the basis of specific assignments and awards, could be associated with Congress activities. This would be linked with the Paris and Berlin bureaus of the Congress, with such international reviews as are affiliated with the Congress, such as Der Monat, etc., and with the Congress Publishing House.

4. University Proposal: A center for Eastern exile professors and students, either in the form of an independent academic institution—the Czapeki (Czapecki) resolution—or perhaps in the more practical form of scholarships for the exiled students and university chairs for the scholars in existing European and American academic institutions, including Berlin Free University, Boston (G Boston), Zurich, Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, etc.

5. School-for-Freedom Proposal: The organization, at first on a very modest student-school-type basis, of a “George Orwell School for Freedom” (Hochschule für Freiheit), in which special courses and seminars in the political and cultural problems of our day could be given. Students could be invited, thus giving the youth some measure of intellectual training; leading publicists and officials could participate. This could be associated with the Research Institute, whose researchers would become teachers and participants in the School sessions, and with the University Project. “Congress cadres” could be developed here.

6. Proposal for Other National Bureaus: Expanding into other European capital cities—Stockholm for Scandinavia, Vienna for the Humanities, Rome for the Mediterranean, New York and Havana for North and South America. It will, in any case, probably become imperative to establish a sub-bureau in New York City for the next period, so that American public opinion is not neglected.
