Central Intelligence Agency, Information Report.

Country: Cuba. Report No. 00-A-3164654. Subject: Leonel de Paula Arias, Oil Industry Procurement Agent (Biographic). Date distributed: 17 August 1960. Number of pages: One. Date of information: August 1960 and earlier. Place and date acquired: Havana, August 1960 and earlier.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: U.S. national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

The source has had years of experience in company operations outside the United States and has been located in Cuba for many years. The source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.

1. In August 1960 the Castro regime sent two representatives to the United States to attempt to obtain replacement parts and machinery for the oil industry. One of these men is Julio Caunedo, on the staff of ICP, and the second is Leonel de Paula Arias, a former employee of Esso Standard Oil SA.

2. De Paula is about 28–29 years old, 6'1", and weighs 180 pounds. He has black curly hair and fair skin. He is married and I believe has one child. He is a Roman Catholic and has never been considered as having any left-wing inclinations.

3. De Paula (De Paul) speaks excellent English, and I believe studied in the United States. He has a degree in engineering and worked three years with the Esso refinery, mainly in maintenance and construction. As of July 1960 he was section head of the Refining Department, Purchasing and Warehousing.

4. The choice of de Paula to go to the United States to obtain necessary supplies is sound because he is the man the company would have chosen to do such a job if required. He has a reputation of being a good hard worker, intelligent, and dependable. He has a pleasant personality and handles himself very well.

5. De Paula was considered one of the better men of the plant and could be classed as a key technician because of his knowledge, background, and ability, and it would definitely hurt the Castro regime if he fled Cuba. However, the opportunities for employment in the oil industry in Latin America are not good because there is considerable prejudice against Cubans on the part of other countries in which there are refining operations.
