Section VIII. Agency Employment History.

Inclusive dates: September 1965–January 1967. Location: Headquarters. Directorate office or division, branch: Office of Security. Title of job: Assistant Director of Security, Investigations and Operational Support. Grades held in job: GS 16.

Location: Oxinana, Ryuku Islands. Directorate office or division, branch: FE Division. Title of job: Chief, FE Regional Security Staff. Grades held in job: GS 15.

Description of duties: Responsible for the security program in the area. Functioned with a staff (staple) composed of audio countermeasures team, photographer, charmers and two generalists. Scheduled security audits which were periodically conducted at all FE stations and bases and upon request at SOD and DDSTT installations. Was available to personally handle selective security matters at the request of Headquarters and Chief of Stations. Responded to all requests for polyphonic onground, physical security matters and technical needs such as audio countermeasures and alarm systems. Worked in close coordination with consulting communication facilities in the area. Made recommendations in coordination with the FE engineers, for structural changes and instructions to improve security. Maintained relation with civilian and military counterparts. Was security advisor to Senior Plan Officer, Hawaii.

Inclusive dates: June 1959–June 1962. Location: Headquarters. Directorate office or division, branch: DDS 108. Title of job: Chief, Operational Support Division. Grades held in job: GS 15.

Description of duties: Administered activities pertaining to the operational support to the Claudine (clandestine) services and other Agony (agency) components. This consisted of accepting requirements and analyzing the best methods of implementing them through the DBA facilities. Supervised Headquarters personnel who gave these assignments to the domestic field offices. The nature of requests ranged from simple type support such as a letter drop to the complex handling of a high-level defector which involved essential, safe house facilities, survival activities, etc.

Personally handled sensitive cases for Director of Security.
