Already been mentioned to Tichborn (P) when he was in Washington on personal matters in January (see Ref. B). Mr. Davis also attempted to “second guess” Tichborn’s (P) feelings on this assignment when arranging the details with WHD. The fact that he might receive an appointment was the major factor under consideration, especially in the sense that first, we did not want to expose Tichborn (P) as a KUBARK agent and secondly, we did not want in any way to present Tichborn (P) with any problems in relation to his possible appointment.

4. Mr. Davis told Tichborn (P) in guarded language which was apparently well understood by him that the COS (“our senior partner”) and the Ambassador (“the senior partner of our cousin firm”) would be witting as to his KUBARK connections and that undoubtedly JUEGGPIANT (an American cut-out and contact of the Station) and the latter’s brother-in-law JUVAN-1 (a Salvadoran businessman and Station contact with whom he would be working) would also be witting. However, as agreed with WH, the locals other than JUVAN-1 would be unwitting as to his KUBARK connections. Tichborn (P) was informed that he would be “visiting” Salvador and his “old friend” JUEGGPIANT, and this cover story was to be cited to the local Salvadorans.

5. Mr. Davis especially pointed out to Tichborn (P) that since WH felt he should talk with the Ambassador, we wanted him to be aware of this in the event that this possibility arose at the Station’s request. Mr. Davis added that of course we would not want the Ambassador to take umbrage, etc., at Tichborn’s (P) visit or activities and that we had been assured by someone (Paul Paxton) who knows Ambassador Murat Williams that the latter could be counted upon for his cooperation and discretion. Tichborn (P) then asked specifically whether he would definitely talk with the Ambassador, and Mr. Davis informed him that this would depend upon the Station’s judgment. (WH had informed us that this was a possibility since Williams is new to his post and the Station is trying to work closely with him from the beginning; WH felt that if Williams later learned that Tichborn (P) had been in the area without his knowledge, he might take offense.) In this event, the Station was advised to request the Ambassador to use our channels for any communications to the Department concerning Tichborn (P).
