Nosenko said Frippel was his agent and said, repeatedly: “I recruited him myself.” In 1962 no other KGB officer was mentioned by Nosenko, who quoted from a number of his conversations with Frippel. In 1964 Nosenko said he and Chelnokov “had carried out the recruitment together,” but Nosenko was the case officer. According to Frippel’s account, Chelnokov was the senior officer in the recruitment and in the later meetings.

Nosenko never met Frippel alone while Frippel was stationed in Moscow. The only times he ever did so were later, he said, when Frippel returned to the USSR, and these consisted of a brief visit to Frippel’s hotel room during Frippel’s visit to Moscow in the summer of 1962 and a short meeting in Odessa where Frippel was on a cruise in February 1963. Both of these meetings took place after Nosenko, in his 1962 contacts with CIA, had exposed Frippel as a KGB agent. According to Frippel, in the February 1963 meeting, Nosenko phoned someone to ask whether he could accept Frippel’s invitation to board the ship; the answer was evidently no. Nosenko denied this, insisting that there was no one in Odessa superior to him, and as a Deputy Department Chief, he would not have to ask anyone anyway.

Nosenko, Chelnokov, and their wives dined at Frippel’s house in Moscow some time after Frippel’s recruitment. Nosenko acknowledged this to have been a most unusual procedure and could name no parallel in KGB agent handling. Asked why it happened, he said: “Because he invited me,” and when asked why Chelnokov and his wife went along, Nosenko said: “Because he was also involved in the recruitment.”

Nosenko said he retained operational control of Frippel, then still Moscow representative of a tourist firm, when Nosenko shifted in June 1960 from the Tourist Department to the American Department. Later Nosenko also maintained responsibility for contact during Frippel’s visits to the USSR after Frippel’s PCS departure from Moscow in January 1961 and after his own return to the Tourist Department. According to Frippel, who saw no sign of change in Nosenko’s responsibilities during his relationship with him, he recalled meeting Chelnokov, who had stayed in the Tourist Department, alone, without Nosenko, probably in 1960.

Frippel said he was queried by Nosenko and Chelnokov only once concerning U.S. Embassy personalities, specifically on Bowden and Winters. Nosenko, who claimed case officer responsibility for Embassy Security Officer Abidian in 1960–1961 as well as for Frippel, said the two did not know each other; in fact, they met socially several times. Nosenko could recall nothing which Frippel ever reported to or did for the KGB, dismissing the subject on several occasions with: “He never gave anything of value.” The only question Nosenko posed when he came to Frippel in August 1962, Frippel said, was whether the agent knew what the newspaper editors he was escorting were going to ask Khrushchev in an interview. According to Frippel, in the February 1963 meeting Nosenko posed no questions and merely made polite conversation until Frippel excused himself.
