Agreement

Agreement made this 24th day of May, 1951, effective the 25th day of May, 1951, by and between the United States of America (hereinafter referred to as the Government), as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, and Tennent H. Bagley (Tenneut H. Bagley) (hereinafter referred to as the Employee).

Recitals

A. The Government desires the services of the Employee for CIA under circumstances requiring the Employee to receive a Foreign Service Staff Corps designation from the Department of State and proposes to send the Employee overseas to Vienna, Austria, for operations in the general area of

B. The Employee desires as an employee of the Government to serve CIA abroad under the supervision and control of the Assistant Director for Special Operations, CIA (ADSO), and is willing to accept a designation in the Foreign Service Staff Corps with the obligations thereof.

In consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants and promises herein contained, and for other good and valuable considerations, the parties hereto agree as follows:

Article I. Relationship of Employee to the Department of State. The Employee, insofar as possible, shall abide by all the rules, regulations, and customs of the Foreign Service of the United States which affect personnel of the Foreign Service Staff Corps in order to appear as a normal member of the Foreign Service establishment.

1. The Employee shall rigidly comply with the provisions of Title X, Part A of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, prohibiting officers and employees of the Foreign Service from:

(a) Wearing uniforms;

(b) Accepting presents from foreign governments;

(c) Engaging in business abroad;

(d) Correspondence on affairs of foreign governments;

(e) Political, racial, religious, or color discrimination.

2. The Chief of the Foreign Service establishment and certain other key members of his staff will know about the Employee's status and relationship under the terms of the TOP SECRET agreement between the Department of State and CIA. Other personnel may discover that there are certain irregularities in travel orders, position numbers, pay accounts, and other internal administrative procedures of the Foreign Service. Nevertheless, the Employee shall not divulge his relationship to CIA except with the expressed approval of the ADSO. While serving abroad, he shall for normal administration be under the control of the Chief of the Foreign Service establishment to whom he is attached, but for operations, including travel as specified below, he shall be under the control of CIA.
