Cover. Nosenko was unable to recall how the car was acquired, whether it was a KGB or Inturist vehicle, who the driver was, whether he was in the employ of the local KGB, or other details.

In accordance with the operational plan, the local KGB officer told Burgi en route to the city that all the hotels in Kiev were full at the moment because of various conferences, but that Inturist had arranged for him to stay for about a day in a private apartment in the center of town; he would be moved to a hotel as soon as possible. When the car arrived at the apartment building on Kreshchatik Ulitsa in Kiev, Nosenko, Kozlov, V.S. Petrenko, a local KGB officer, and (fnu) Rastykaite, a woman housekeeper, were waiting for them. Nosenko could not remember how or whether he introduced himself to Burgi. The recruitment conversation, he said, was handled by “Kozlov-Nosenko,” but Nosenko had forgotten by 1965 who said what: “I don't remember what I talked about and I don't remember what Kozlov talked about. Many things were discussed. It started with how he liked his stay in the Soviet Union... Then we slowly proceeded to say how unfortunate it was that information had been received about his conduct in Moscow. We told him that his homosexual activities were known, that this was punishable under Soviet law according to article so-and-so of the criminal code, etc., that he was not a diplomat, had no diplomatic immunity, that he could be taken to court according to the Soviet law... Well, he was scared, confused, upset, and felt uncomfortable. Then we slowly proceeded to say that all that could be smoothed out, but, you understand, the basis was prepared for the man to say: ‘All right, I agree to help.’... We showed him the pictures. He was embarrassed of course—he was naked. Then we prepared the basis: ‘You have a noble task. You teach; you have students; the students might become future specialists on Russia or might work as diplomats, etc., but many of these students could be used by intelligence. They might be sent somewhere with special tasks. Maybe you will tell us who among the students is preparing for government service, how they are distributed, etc.’... During the first conversation everything was made completely clear... He was not at all willing to help or work for Soviet Intelligence. He was told that he must understand that in this case ‘helping Soviet Intelligence’ was a very broad term. I remember that I told him: ‘Understand, nobody is going to ask you that you help our friends over there, or me, if I should be there, or that you do anything bad or conduct any kind of subversive activities, that you organize explosions or murder.’ After the Soviet Union, he was supposed to go to Italy, to visit the Russicum of the Vatican, and here Kozlov grabbed the subject and began to ask questions about this school. He told us a bit about the Russicum and we asked him to write about it and he wrote down some names of the professors who teach Russian subjects...” According to Nosenko, the discussion lasted about five hours; at its end, Burgi signed a short statement that he agreed “to assist the organs of Soviet Intelligence.” Nosenko first said that it was he who took this statement from Burgi but later said he could not remember whether he or Kozlov did this. Burgi was then taken to a hotel.
