Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in the current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Vitale's principal qualification is his background knowledge of the operational history of Cuban paramilitary operations. This has afforded the branch considerable continuity. He is a very willing worker who gets along well with fellow employees. His knowledge of and experience in handling records and locating material makes him valuable in headquarters support of WH/Cuba paramilitary case officers—a task he performs in a loyal and dependable manner.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By employee: I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 11 July 1966. Signature of employee: Gary Vitale.

By supervisor: If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 10 months. Typed or printed name and signature.

Official title of supervisor: C/WH/C/MO/PM. Bryan Mills.

By reviewing official.

Comments of reviewing official: I have had opportunity to observe subject's performance closely for nine months and while I generally concur in his supervisor's ratings of the duties as listed, it should be noted that these same duties could be performed equally well by a more junior Intel Clerk or Intel Assistant and, therefore, the overall rating as a GS-8 Intel Assistant does not accurately reflect his capability. In my opinion it would be very difficult, if not impossible, for subject to perform competitively with other Intel Assistants at a GS-8 level, and I recommend his position title be changed to Ops Support Assistant, a role in which he performs capably.

Date: 25 July 1966. Official title of reviewing official: C/WH/C/MO. Typed or printed name and signature: Robert A. Ortman.
