Fitness Report. Employee Serial Number: 00C102.

General. Name: CASASIN Thomas B. Date of birth: 20 January 1924. Sex: M. Grade: G8-15 D'.

Official Position Title: One Officer. DIP/EUR/France, Paris.

Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Career-Provisional; Special (Specify).

Date report due in O.P. 1 April 1967 to 31 March 1968.

Performance Evaluation.

W. Work Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A. Advanced. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P. Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S. Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O. Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Establishes and maintains a legitimate S&T publishing representation for the purpose of developing natural access to station targets. Rating letter: 8.

Develops cover pretexts to meet WOLADY and third national of operational interest in the S&T community. Rating letter: 8.

Specific Duty No. 2: Responds to station ad-hoc requirements on the local internal target. Rating letter: 3.

Develops potential agent prospects in the S&T community to the point where they can be recommended as station agent candidates. Rating letter.
