Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

This officer is the person chiefly responsible for the Mexico Desk's deserved reputation for excellence and efficiency. The complicated and never-ending tasks of project processing, clearances, tracing, and coordination are handled by her with blinding speed and unerring perfection. Procedural problems are there to be solved, and the solutions come with amazing rapidity. Operational problems are worked out thoroughly and conscientiously. No corners are cut and no principles are compromised.

Never at a loss for an answer, this officer never shrinks from any assignment and instinctively wants to take over any vexing problem which is holding up progress. She is complete mistress of file and record resources and answers all queries within minutes. The most complex budgetary and planning projects are handled by her with deceptive ease.

These qualities of rare efficiency and speed are coupled with an even rarer degree of amiability and cooperativeness. The work which proceeds under her at such a break-neck pace nonetheless goes on in an air of placidity and good humor. The large office staff is run without a trace of tension, jealousy, or friction. All of this is traceable to this officer's fine example and catalytic effect on her colleagues.

Finely educated, handling the Spanish language with fluency, and keeping up with current events in her area, this officer is a unique asset to our organization.

Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

By employee. Date: 26 February 1963. Signature of employee: Charles J. Whitten.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 26 February 1963. Official title of supervisor: e/WW/3/MEXICO. Typed or printed name and signature: John M. Whitten.

By reviewing official. Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 26 February 1963. Official title of reviewing official: AC/WW/3. Typed or printed name and signature: Bernard J. Whitten; Forrest Shivers.
