Section C: Narrative Comments.

Mr. Maksymiec is a valuable member of the EDLB and serves as its senior lab technician. He works closely with other members of the staff and contributes to the success of the laboratory.

His duties require him to maintain and develop many skills in the field of photography. He carries out these duties and other responsibilities in a professional manner and with a minimum of supervision.

As senior laboratory technician, he provides guidance for his junior technician. His ability to train this man in the field of photographic technology is considered superior.

Mr. Maksymiec recently completed a review course in “Basic Grammar.” This course pointed out his main difficulties in written expression, and his teacher suggested methods for overcoming these difficulties. As a result of this course and after a consultation with Mr. R. B. Cheatham of the Educational and Psychological Service Bureau, Georgetown University, Mr. Maksymiec plans on taking a special English course at Montgomery Junior College this fall. This course concentrates on the fundamental of reading and writing. When he successfully completes this English course, he expects to continue his education with the ultimate goal of receiving his Bachelor's degree. Mr. Maksymiec is ambitious and hopes to train himself for a more responsible position. He is to be commended for this effort, and he will be given all possible aid within the laboratory to help him fulfill his educational program.

Date: OCT 12 ’66, 1:56 PM ’66. Mrs. Mosh.

Section D: Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 30 October 1966. Signature of employee: Llynpoulan A. Maksymiee.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 37. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation in 30-134. Supervises my work and cost consideration. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Exploratory Development Laboratory Branch. Richard E. Swing.

Date: 3 October 1966. Official title of supervisor. Printed name and signature: John A. Paschetteher.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I concur in the above evaluation. Mr. Maksymiec is doing a fine job in the Laboratory and at the same time is working hard to get ahead as his concentration on furthering his education illustrates.

Date: 4 October 1966. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Assistant for Plans and Development. Typed or printed name and signature: John A. Paschetteher.
