Building is often out of order because there are too many children in the building. Subject is married and has two children, but he is presently separated from his wife. As the children finished high school, his wife wanted them to continue their schooling in the U.S. Subject avoided specifying what school his children attended here and called the school “the American High School.” Subject has been in Mexico four years and his wife only two years. As much as he loves Mexico, his wife did not get used to Mexico and did not want to remain any longer. The fact that he did not want to leave Mexico resulted in their physical separation. According to Subject, it is only a matter of days since his family left for San Jose, California, which Subject called his hometown.

Subject claims that his family, on his paternal side, comes from Milan, Italy. His great-grandfather came to New York, NY, and followed the gold rush to California, where he apparently did well. For reasons unknown to Subject, his grandfather moved from California to Arizona and then to Mexico, Sinaloa, where Subject’s father was born. In the same breath, Subject stated that he, too, was born in Mexico, and when F commented that it would be logical that he have dual citizenship, Subject did quite a bit of talking to confuse the previous statement. During the revolution, all the records were burned, and he has only the certificate of baptism issued by a Mexican church. In fact, it was possible that he was born on the U.S. side of the border. Subject claims he could not care less about the possibility of claiming Mexican citizenship; he is an American, and it suits him well to live in this country as a tourist.

In the Fraccionadora de Pajio, he works with a partner who entered the company as owner of two large chunks of land. Subject had no money, but he is the person who, through his connections, obtained from a Mexican bank a decision that the bank would mortgage up to 90 percent of every structure he and his partner complete. Now he is in the stage of obtaining American investment capital to carry out the construction of low-income housing. F does not recall the location Subject mentioned. Of course, Subject went through financial difficulties and is still facing some of them, but nothing serious. He has a car of his own. He is moving out of this apartment and will sublet it and make a few hundred per month on the difference between the present price and what he is paying. This type of transaction cannot get him in trouble because Mexicans do not care about such things. He has a friend in the Chornacion.
