Case 46,632

17 January 1966

That in 1960, while on a trip to Montreal for a medical meeting, Dr. Bustamante took a large sum of money and his wife's jewels with him and deposited them in safekeeping somewhere in Mexico. The source of this particular information is Dr. Hector Weltz, a former close friend and confidant of Bustamante. Dr. Weltz still lives in Cuba and is described as being anti-Castro.

16. Dr. Fernandez-Conde states that Bustamante is intelligent, industrious, well-grounded in his profession, gregarious, able to make and carry out decisions, but is not a particularly forceful person. He is insincere, devious, a physical coward, and inordinately afraid when his life is in danger. He has many personality complexes. He seldom drinks and boasts about his abstemiousness where liquor is concerned. He may occasionally drink a glass of port or vermouth if the situation demands it. Maria Luisa drinks but not to excess. Neither is addicted to dope. Maria Luisa's Achilles heel is her overprotective attitude towards her son, Jose, Jr. Both Dr. and Mrs. Bustamante are opportunists, love money and power, and will go along with the regime so long as it serves their best interests to do so. They have already taken the precaution of depositing cash and valuables abroad to use in the event of the overthrow of the Castro government and the need for them to flee Cuba. Very little exact information is available about the state of Maria Luisa's health. Jose, Sr. is described as being in good health. He suffers continually from flat feet and is known to have undergone a hemorrhoidectomy in the distant past.

17. Dr. Bustamante has only three close friends in Cuba. They are all Communists. They are the following individuals:

a. Dr. Leopoldo Araujo-Bernal, President of the Colegio Medico Nacional de Cuba, Havana.

b. Dr. Carlos Acosta-Nodal, practicing psychiatrist in Havana.

c. Dr. Oscar Garcia Fernando, practicing physician in Havana.

Almost all of the doctors left in Cuba are anti-Communist and are violently opposed to Bustamante. The following two such individuals would be able to provide detailed background information on Bustamante:

a. Dr. Raúl de Velasco Guzman, former President of the Colegio Medico Nacional de Cuba (1956-1959), 3rd Avenue between 10th and 12th Streets, Miramar, Havana. Dr. de Velasco has a sister and a son (Raúl (Raül)) now in Miami. Raúl, Jr. is in his third year in the Medical School of the University of Miami.

b. Dr. Jorge Beato, Paseo Street and 17th Street, Vedado, Havana.

18. Dr. Fernandez-Conde suggests that the following individuals should be able to provide vital information on Dr. Bustamante or Mrs. Bustamante. With one exception, they are now living in the US.

a. Dr. Fidel Aguirre, 730 Livingstone Road, Elizabeth, New Jersey, telephone—289-9000. Dr. Aguirre was formerly President of the Havana Medical Association. He will be able to provide background and professional information on Dr. Bustamante.
