CS-311/00466-65

d) Meetings held with them, dates, and personnel participating in the meetings; locations. Points discussed, agreements arrived at against Cuba, and the Movement of National Liberation. Plans and objectives of the national security forces with regard to the Movement of National Liberation, means and resources mobilized, agents infiltrated into the political movements, repressive methods prescribed.

e) Contacts with Interpol. Cooperation with it. Restrictive measures regarding trips to Cuba. Agents.

f) Foreign advisers of the repressive forces and intelligence bodies; names, ranks, and positions; their functions; cases in which they have participated.

g) Leading functionaries of the CIA in the country; its office. Plans and objectives it pursues in Santo Domingo.

h) Nationals who are working for the CIA; names, ranks, and positions. Their methods and plans. Purpose of their work.

8. Status of the Parties or Political Groups

a) Their present status in regard to composition, strength, penetration, factions, leaders, programs, etc.

b) Participation in the government.

c) Relations of the political parties with the Embassy, the monopolies, the Church, and the Armed Forces.

d) Organizations of a fascist type; relations with the government, the Yankee Embassy, the Church; leaders, members, structure, anti-Communist campaign, arguments, attacks upon Cuba.

e) Provenience of the funds of the political parties.

f) Attitude of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.

g) Toward the Second Havana Declaration.

h) In regard to Cuban-Soviet relations, in questions which affect Cuba and world peace.

i) Concerning rightist and extreme rightist groups.

j) Reactions to the economic and political changes taking place in Cuba.

9. Movement for Solidarity with Cuba

a) Possibility of active demonstrations in favor of Cuba: groups, leaders, strength, organization, participants, relations with the forces of the left and other progressive forces.

b) Repression directed at the movement for solidarity with Cuba.
