Intelligence Information Report. Directorate of Plans.

Report No. CS-311/02895-70. Date distributed: 3 April 1970. Country: West Germany. Date of information: Mid-February 1970. Subject: Analysis of the West German National Democratic Party's Election Chances and Cohesiveness. Area and date acquired: Germany, 27 February 1970. Field No. OGA-853.

Source: A medium-level West German government official who follows the activities of the National Democratic Party (NPD), from an NPD official who attended the party congress. The report is the NPD official's analysis of the party's situation in the wake of the congress. The information is also passed to an official West German service, from which similar information should not be construed as confirmation.

1. Adolf von Thadden, NPD chairman, remains firmly in control of the party following the 14–15 February 1970 NPD congress in Wertheim.

2. Skepticism about the future of the NPD is increasing among party leaders. The NPD is definitely planning to wage vigorous campaigns in all 1970 Land elections, but there appears to be little chance that the party will do even as well in these elections as it did in the 1969 Bundestag elections, when it failed to obtain five percent of the total vote.

3. At the congress, several prominent NPD leaders emphasized the need for party unity; these appeals were well received by the delegates. There are many unresolved questions and problems, however, which will continue to plague the party. For instance, the “national-conservative” concept, which was adopted in the manifesto issued by the congress, came under strong attack. One group, which includes both older and younger members, rejects the concept of the NPD as a conservative party, because they consider that this term conveys the idea that the party is an out-of-date and reactionary political group. On the other hand, the proponents of the national-conservative concept consider themselves as upholding “positive values” in the face of manifestations of disintegration. Von Thadden is the party's unifying force, and one delegate accurately summarized the situation by saying: “Von Thadden, by virtue of the charisma of his speeches, succeeded in bridging the many cracks in the party.”

4. Field Dissem: Embassy Bonn, USBR.
