Committee called NOSENKO's father on the phone and told him the whole story. NOSENKO's father never told either NOSENKO'S wife or mother of the incident, but did chide NOSENKO about it. The incident was brought before the Komsomol and discussed. A written reprimand for immoral conduct—unauthorized use of official documents—was placed in his record. This was also a final warning, meaning that any other infraction would result in expulsion. He made the statement that he had been punished for this incident many times. He could not immediately apply for party membership; the incident was brought up repeatedly in Komsomol meetings and even in party meetings (after he was accepted) as a horrible example; and it kept him from being promoted from Senior Lieutenant to Captain. (The Deputy-Director who gave him five days was a member of the promotion commission.)

Although there have been slight changes and contradictions in NOSENKO's numerous accounts of this story (the house arrest was variously reported as 5, 10, and 15 days), it remained basically consistent until the October 1966 interrogations, when he said for the first time that he contracted gonorrhea from the girl in Leningrad in 1945 rather than 1954. In 1954, he said, he again was infected, this time by a prostitute whom he picked up in the vicinity of the Leningrad Railroad Station in Moscow. When the KGB required that he reveal the source, NOSENKO said, he ascribed the latter case to the original girl from Leningrad. During the October 1966 interrogations, NOSENKO also told CIA for the first time that he had had venereal disease on two other occasions while studying at the Institute of International Affairs.

He later began to “feel more a part of the KGB,” and as a junior KGB case officer, he personally recruited Richard BURGI in the first successful recruitment operation carried out by the newly-created Tourist Department of the Second Chief Directorate.* “And in 1956,” NOSENKO said in 1964, “before my father's death, I was made a candidate for membership in the Communist Party and, exactly 15 days later, was assigned the rank of Senior Case Officer. I developed a pride in myself, (a feeling) that I can do things. You know how it is. When a person feels that he can, that he has some support, then he works much better. He has more initiative and so forth.”

3. Affiliation with Communist Party Organs

NOSENKO said that his formal participation in Communist Party activities began in late 1943 or early 1944 when he joined the Komsomol at the Naval Preparatory School in Baku. This step was a casual one, and he has said that he took it without much thought, mainly because all his friends were

* See Part V.D.4.b. for a description of the BURGI recruitment operation. Until 1966 NOSENKO claimed to CIA that he had received an award for his participation in this operation. In the October 1966 interrogations he retracted this and said that he never received any KGB award for the BURGI or any other operation.
