Fitness Report.

Section A: General.

Name: Zehnung Charlotte. Service designation: DI. Official position title: Ops Officer. Date of birth: 12 January 1929. Sex: Female. Grade: GS-12. Office/Division/Service of assignment: DDPAH/3/Nexi/DC.

Career staff status: MUT eligible X, pending; member declined; deferred; denied. Type of report: Initial X, annual; reassignment/supervisor reassignment/employer.

Date report due in O.P.: 31 January 1961. Reporting period: From 30 September 1959 to 31 December 1960. To: Special (specify).

Section B: Evaluation of Performance of Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Rating scale: 1, unsatisfactory; 2, barely adequate; 3, acceptable; 4, competent; 5, excellent; 6, superior; 7, outstanding.

Specific duty No. 1: Responsible for project renewals and other correspondence and action on 12 support-type projects for Mexico City and Monterrey.

Specific duty No. 4: Assist the Chief of the Desk in administration of office to assure smooth functioning of the desk. Includes distribution of work, routing, etc.

Specific duty No. 2: Handle miscellaneous administrative and support matters (requests for technical equipment, studies, training guides, etc.) for Mexico and Monterrey.

Specific duty No. 3: Assist in arrangement of pouches and cables, supervision of clerical staff of 4.

Specific duty No. 3: Supervise maintenance of records at the desk and represent Desk as Records Officer in discussions with RIO on Hng and field records problems.

Rating No. 6, specific duty No. 4. Rating No. 6.

Section C: Evaluation of Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position—performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important tasks falls far
