Official Dispatch.

Via: Air. Dispatch No. TZA-4/11. Desensitized.

To: Chief of Station, Panama City and San Jose.  
From: Acting Chief, Foreign Branch.  
Subject: General Operations, Specific Project Hydropathic.  
Date: 21 December 1968.  
Reference: TZP-A-365, Parts I and II.

1. The proposal that the Panama Station activate an agent project in conjunction with San Jose has been studied by this headquarters and elicits the following comment. It is felt that nothing can be gained from a cumbersome joint operation of this project that cannot be obtained from a simple agent project controlled exclusively by the San Jose Station. If San Jose wishes to avail itself of these two men as an independent project, that station is authorised to proceed with its preliminary planning for submission to this headquarters for final approval.

2. In the event San Jose decides to use Hydropathic, that station is directed to become more familiar with his capabilities before entering into a formal agreement re tasks and salary. His practical experience and educational background are not outstanding and the mere fact that he has had duty with the U. S. Army in an intelligence capacity in no sense automatically qualifies him for our work. It is suggested that the San Jose Station initiate its relations with Hydropathic by using him as a cutout in an endeavor to test his abilities. If his value is proved and his Costa Rican associations appear to be in a position to give him high-level intelligence information, then come to a formal agreement with regard to his future work in an intelligence gathering capacity. The San Jose Station is directed to give him no encouragement at this time with respect to a later full-time position with this organization.

3. In summary Hydrocyst is to sever his formal connection with Hydrocyst I and is to have no knowledge of Hydropathic with regard to the latter's work for Mercer. Details on the procedure to be followed in Hydropathic's relation with Hydrocyst I are the responsibility of the San Jose Station and are to be submitted to this headquarters for final approval before any formal commitments are made. The Panama Station is directed to forward to San Jose all the documents in its files that are considered pertinent to the development of this project.

AN NAE. AB X-. RJD/FJP.

Releasing Officer. Coordinating Officer. Authenticating Officer.

21-Dec-48. 201-168871.
