United States Government Memorandum

To: Director, Domestic Contact Service

Attention: Mr. Murphy

From: Chief, New York Field Office

Subject: Meeting with Edmund Cummings, Department of Immigration, U.S. Catholic Conference.

Reference: Department of State memorandum of 12 May 1969 from Wm. C. Truehart, forwarded to NYFO on 16 May 1969.

1. On 6 June 1969, Deputy Chief, NYFO, accompanied by C/S Elliff, met with Edmund Cummings to discuss any aspects of the relationship between his office and the Agency that might be unsatisfactory to him. This appointment was requested by NYFO as a result of the comments made by Cummings in the reference memorandum.

2. When we opened the discussion with the statement that we had heard indirectly that the question of cooperation with the CIA had arisen at the ACVA meeting, Cummings immediately stated that this was indeed the case, and for his part, he wished to have no contact at all with our Agency. Invited to elaborate on his reasons, Cummings said it could be very “embarrassing” were it to become known that he had furnished information on Czechoslovak refugees to the CIA. He later stated that it could be extremely dangerous for refugees to have contact with the Agency, since if this fact were known, it could bring harm to themselves or to their families still in Eastern Europe. If he had furnished the information about the location of a refugee to whom harm later came, it would cause him great anguish. He knew, he said, of an instance in Connecticut in which a refugee who had cooperated with the Agency was beaten up by Communist agents. Cummings did not respond to our invitation to elaborate on this incident, which we said was unknown to us. Cummings said that not only was he concerned about CIA activities involving refugees, but that if cognizant, the U.S. bishops would be unhappy about CIA involvement with organizations such as the U.S. Catholic Conference. Again, Cummings declined to elaborate. Cummings suggested that we get our information from the I&IS to whom the U.S. Catholic Conference furnishes data and he was unsympathetic to our desire to have this information on a more timely basis than was possible with reliance on I&IS records. He also suggested that arrangements to see refugees in the U.S. be made with the refugee in Europe and that the refugee be given a telephone number to call after his arrival. Responding to our direct question, Cummings said he viewed cooperation with the FBI in a different light and would not deny its agents information they requested.
