Place in the summer of 1962, a fact he recalled distinctly because he wore no overcoat. It was only when confronted with official U.S. records that Nosenko agreed in early 1965 that the approach was in January and recalled that it was made immediately after Nosenko returned to the Tourist Department.

Nosenko said that when Johnson first arrived in Moscow there was consideration of recruiting him, but that there was a decision against this as he was of little intelligence value. Then Johnson mailed insulting letters, which were picked up through postal intercept. About the same time there were indications of homosexuality. Then the operation was mounted against him. This implies a very tight time schedule. Johnson arrived in Moscow on 31 December 1961; Nosenko said he reported for duty as Section Chief on 3 January 1962; Johnson reported his first contact with Nosenko's homosexual agent Volkov the evening of 4 January; and the approach by Nosenko was on 5 January.

Although Nosenko implied in 1962 that his homosexual agents Volkov and Yefremov were the ones who originally determined Johnson's homosexuality, he said in 1964 only that there were “signs.” Nosenko did not know what these indications were or where they came from. Johnson reported that he first met the agent Volkov on the evening of 4 January when the latter sat down at his restaurant table; on this same occasion Volkov invited Johnson to his hotel room the next day. The fact that Volkov joined Johnson uninvited and set him up for the approach without leaving the table suggests that there had, in fact, been signs of his homosexuality beforehand and that operational plans had been laid by this time.

Nosenko has described the caution taken in other homosexual entrapment cases and has named several which were called off because of a risk of scandal. It is, therefore, unusual that the KGB would take this risk merely to force Johnson, an American and a Baptist minister, to stop writing insulting letters and articles.

Nosenko did not know why he became involved in this operation the day after he reported for duty in the senior position of Section Chief. He said only that Bobkov, a Deputy Chief of the Second Chief Directorate, told him to do it. During his talks with Johnson, Nosenko introduced himself to Johnson as “Georgiy Ivanovich Nikolayev,” rendered by Johnson as Nikolov, the “Chief of Police.”

(ii) The Barghoorn (BARGHOORN) Provocation-Arrest

The arrest of Professor Barghoorn (BARGHOORN) (pages 304–309) took place at the end of October 1963, at the time Nosenko said he was First Deputy Chief of the Tourist Department. Nosenko has

How Nosenko's self-stated and confirmed participation in a Tourist Department operation on 5 January 1962 carries implications for his account of Abidian's (ABIDIAN's) visit to the Penkovskiy (PENKOVSKIY) dead drop is discussed above.
