Fitness Report.

Section A — General.

Name: Bustos-Videla, Charlotte. Date of birth: 12 January 1929. Sex: F. Grade: GS-12. SD: D. Official position title: Operations Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP WH 3. Current station: Headquarters.

Type of appointment: Career; initial; annual. Reassignment supervisor. Reassignment employee. Special (specify).

Date report due in O.P.: 31 January 1964. Reporting period: 1 January 1963–31 December 1963.

Section B — Performance Evaluation.

W — Work: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Handle Project action, operational correspondence, support for 19 FT and OPs Support type projects, effecting proper coordination with senior staffs, other divisions, and offices. Rating letter: B.

Specific duty No. 2: Handle clearance actions, contracts, and administrative matters for agents falling under these projects, and for the entire desk in the absence of the Intell Analyst. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 3: Prepare miscellaneous memoranda, budgets, and reports requested by Senior Staffs and Division officers from the Mexican desk on Mexican matters in general. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Supervise the clerical and administrative personnel on the desk (averaging
