Language Data Record. Part I—General.

1. Name (last-first-middle): Piccole, Joseph S. Record number: 52516.58.  
2. Date of birth: December 4, 1935.  
3. Language: Spanish 720. Date: August 5–7.  
4. Today’s date: October 24, 1959.  
5. I have no proficiency in any foreign language.

Part II—Language Elements.

Section A. Reading (40).

I can read texts of any difficulty, of a general nature or in fields I am familiar with, using the dictionary only rarely.

I can read texts of most grades of difficulty, of a general nature or in fields I am familiar with, using the dictionary occasionally.

I can read texts of average difficulty (newspapers, reference materials, etc.), using the dictionary frequently.

I can read simple texts, such as street signs, newspaper headlines, etc., using the dictionary frequently.

I have no reading ability in the language.

Section B. Writing (41).

I can write personal letters and similar material with complete success without using the dictionary. I can write factual narrative and expository material with reasonable clarity, with very few grammatical errors, in native style, using the dictionary only rarely.

I can write personal letters and similar simple material with complete success, using the dictionary only rarely. I can write factual narrative and expository material with reasonable clarity, with few grammatical errors, but in a style which may not be native, using the dictionary occasionally.

I can write personal letters and similar simple material, with reasonable success in conveying my meaning, but with occasional minor grammatical errors and in obviously foreign, awkward style, using the dictionary occasionally.

I can write personal letters and similar simple material, with reasonable success in conveying my meaning, but with many grammatical errors and in a very foreign, awkward style, using the dictionary frequently.

I cannot write in the language.

Section C. Pronunciation (42).

1. My pronunciation is native.

2. While natives can detect an accent in my pronunciation, they have no difficulty understanding me.

3. My pronunciation is obviously foreign, but only rarely causes difficulty for natives to understand.
