Michel Chertain (Chertain xin), you know. He is secretary general of the Parti Socialiste de Québec and is of course very much connected with the Cubans, and has had a great deal of contact with American Negro groups of the Left.

GLN, Congo, in Brazzaville. It's so open, and so obvious, you know. They used to send things CHELLAR—Apartado General 13777, Zone 1, Bogotá—or Ap. Besss 15332, Bogotá.

In Colombia, Alfonso Queila—this address is where they receive special materials, things that they think will get by the censorship. These things came from Peking. They came to Revolution.

The one great advantage of Revolution was, if one watched it closely, you could find it at one time, not any more, but certainly in the early period. They weren't told by the Chinese to come there, but they had seen Revolution on sale. Orlando LINERO, Calle 5G, No. 63-30, Barranquilla, Colombia.

Colonia Anáhuac, Mexico, D.F.

Federico Amery was a Mexican settler who had been in Peking and was supposed to represent their Mexican Marxist-Leninist group, the pro-Chinese group. Tizoc 19, Col. Anáhuac, Mexico 17, D.F.

Jurema Finamour, this poor Brazilian, who was involved in a most vague way. Vergès put this person's name on the magazine. I don't know whether it is a man or woman—I think it's a woman—but actually never received anything from her. I heard later that she was pro-Moscow, certainly not pro-Chinese. She's probably in jail now, after the coup down there.

Mémoires du Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle.

M. & Mme Jean FALLOT. This is the fellow who was Communist leader in the Haute-Loire, who is the only one who is still supposed to remain in contact. Le Chambon-sur-Lignon, Haute-Loire. Everybody knows Mrs. Gunawardene. The Russians claim she is parachuted everywhere. P.O. Box 300, Dept. 245, Peking.

Gregoria Goldenberg, in Peking, is Chilean. He works, I think he works, inside of the Foreign Languages press. He is correspondent for El Mundo of Havana. At one time he was correspondent for the Cuban radio. He was a very curious fellow. He wanted to set up a Spanish edition of Revolution with Chinese money and offered to do this when he came through Paris, about a year ago. Vergès managed to avoid ever giving him any answer on this. He actually offered to bring the money for this.

Han Su-yin. Very interested in the magazine. She sent material from Cambodia, and Vergès does have some contacts in Cambodia, someone in the office of Norodom Sihanouk (Sinhanouk Norda). A Frenchman, I think his name is Mayer. He was close to the chief of state, undoubtedly Charles Meyer, well-known lawyer in Phnom Penh.

Elpheus Hunter. W. A. Hunter. Anyone would know him in Accra.
