Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 006102.

Section A—General. Name: CASASIN Thomas B. Date of birth: 20 Jan 24. Sex: M. Grade: GS-15. SO: D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Current station: Paris. Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Annual. Date report due in O.P.: 31 March 1972. Reporting period: 1 April 71–31 March 1972.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory. Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal. Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient. Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so excepted and is related to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Maintenance of effective NOC status and functioning as a WOMACE officer in this situation. Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 2: Maintains direct contact with MHHARSH personnel. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Provides spotting reports on wide range of contacts and follows up with additional meetings when individual is of special interest to Station. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Responds to Station requirement for information on individuals or organizations. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 5: Operational reporting. Rating letter: P.
