23 December 1968

Subject: LIRING/3 Report of Contact by “Pavel” of FAR.

1. LIRING/3 reported to Rowton at 1000 on 23/12/68 at the restaurant in the Camino Real Hotel that at long last the FAR contact promised by the León Barrios brothers had appeared. LIRING/3 told Rowton that at about 1900 on 19 December a Guatemalan came to his apartment and introduced himself as “a friend of Violeta.” LIRING/3 invited him in but asked him not to discuss anything sensitive in the presence of his wife. After about ten minutes of chit chat in the apartment, LIRING/3 and the Guatemalan, who gave his name simply as “Rómulo,” went to a nearby restaurant to talk privately.

2. According to LIRING/3, the Guatemalan stated that he had been ordered by FAR to maintain contact with LIRING/3. When queried by LIRING/3 regarding the Humberto González Vega whom he had met previously, “Rómulo” explained, “Oh, you mean ‘El Gato’—he’s a good element, but he will not be your FAR contact. I have been entrusted with that mission.” “Rómulo” also stated that he knew Francisco Lara well and had worked with him in Guatemala City some time ago until Lara was arrested. “Rómulo” added that unfortunately Lara’s mother had betrayed him to the police and he barely escaped arrest at that time. “Rómulo” confirmed that Lara had been under a cloud as far as his superiors were concerned and had made the ill-fated trip in order to attempt to clear himself of charges against him.

3. When LIRING/3 told “Rómulo” that he had been in touch with the LIRING office since his return, the latter exclaimed, “But what have the LIRING people to do with us?” This gave LIRING/3 the definite impression that “Rómulo” himself was not in touch with a PERFUMEN representative in Mexico City, and, in any case, did not like the LIRING establishment.

4. He then asked LIRING/3 to give him a summary report of the arrest and detention. LIRING/3 told Rowton that he balked at this at first, protesting to “Rómulo” that he had already given the details to the León Barrios brothers and “Cebollito,” who he was sure had passed on the report to the FAR in Guatemala. When “Rómulo” explained that he would appreciate an oral report on the spot since he was not fully informed because of communications problems, LIRING/3 told Rowton that he went over the whole episode for “Rómulo’s” benefit. “Rómulo” then asked to see LIRING/3 again at 1100 on 21 December to continue their discussion. He promised to meet LIRING/3 on the street in front of his apartment house at the appointed time.

5. LIRING/3 continued to Rowton that much to his surprise and indignation he received a letter on the following day (20/12/68) from Martha, the mother.
