Photo of Kronstadt (we haven't; can be got).

Caption: To the effect: this is the island fortress off Petrograd, from which the Bolsheviks' own grands-de-la-crème (grams-de-la-creme) marched against Kerensky in July 1917; stormed the Winter Palace in November to put Lenin in power.

Bolshevik.

Here, on March 1, 1921, 15,000 sailors and soldiers revolted against Lenin's regime and dispatched a radio message to the world:

“The first shot has thundered. But the entire world knows of it. The bloody Field Marshal Trotsky (Trotzsky), who stands up to the waitlist in the fraternal blood of the workers, was the first to open fire against revolutionary Kronstadt, which rebelled against the government of the Communists in order to re-establish the real power of the Soviets. He will rise or fall under the ruins of Kronstadt, fighting for the bloodstained cause of the laboring people. Long live the power of the Soviets! Long live the world Socialist Revolution!”

Marshal Tukhachevsky (Fukhachevsky) described the outcome:

“I was in the war for five years, but I cannot remember such a slaughter. It was not a battle; it was an inferno... The sailors fought like wild beasts. I cannot understand when they found the might for each race. An entire company fought for an hour to capture one house and when the house was captured it was found that it contained two or three soldiers at a machine-gun. They seemed half-dead, but they snatched their revolvers and gasped, ‘Too little did we shoot at you, scoundrels.’”

Comment: “Shows it had been done—a revolt of 15,000, nearly four years after Lenin came to power. The average reader knows nothing of the fact this revolt occurred, and should be reminded.”

Tukhachevsky (Fukhachevsky), incidentally, adds an item of “continuity” to the story, since further on there is a photo of him, as one of those executed.

Note: The above would admittedly make a lengthy caption; but a visual offer is necessary, because there is no photo (presumably) in existence of the actual revolt; and the fact it occurred should be driven home.
