US Embassy in Bonn informed them on Sunday, January 16, in the morning about all important topics discussed and resolutions adopted in Medellin. While impressed by the fast work and correct reporting of Norden, he expressed his curiosity as to how it was possible that the embassy in Bonn was so quickly informed. (Note: I am surprised even more that a blubber-mouth like Norden was informed about such a report!) The general consensus of those present was that CIA must have a few men infiltrated among the delegates.

3. According to the new bylaws, Pico's Transport Federation (in formation) will have three votes during the next Congress, equal to other Latin American federations and national delegations. Therefore, it is important for us that we continue to work with Pico.

4. Pico should also go to the CLASC meeting in Guatemala in March, when the Central American Confederation will be created. CLASC also wants to create a Central American Transport Federation, and Pico's presence there is requested.

5. I asked Pico if his CLASC friends did not resent the fact that he works for FORDC. He said that this problem was solved once and for all. CLASC executives know that only two principal currents exist among Cuban exiled labor: the Batistians and the revolutionaries. The Batistians are the Mujalistas of CTC, aided by ORIT, and CLASC is against the Mujalistas. They are in favor of the revolutionaries, and they are in FORDC, which is the only really active exile labor organization. CLASC leaders know that FORDC is being supported by the US government, but they accept it as a necessity and understand that it is inevitable, as neither the Batistians nor the communists will support it and CLASC has no funds to do so.

Summing Up

By no means do I consider Pico to be an ideal agent. He might be influenced or awed by Maspero. He also is sometimes impulsive and puts his foot in his mouth. On the other hand, he is young, aggressive, and better educated than the average Cuban labor leader. He is accepted in CLASC; his organization, ORT, is a weak member, and he will be the head of the Latin American Transport Federation, which will give him the following advantages: (a) a voice and three votes at CLASC meetings; (b) he can influence CLASC decisions; (c) he will bring a strong anti-Castro and anti-communist influence; (d) he will soften anti-Castro outbursts; (e) he will report to us, even if we have to take his reliability with a grain of salt.

Note: I forgot to call your attention to the curious little item in Pico's report:

He advises that the Copeyanos gained control of the Sindicato Portuario in Puerto Cabello (Puerto Abello), wresting it away from Correa after it was found that 200,000 bolivares were missing from the treasury. Pico also reports that there are widespread rumors that Correa is living it up at the expense of the boycott and that he is blackmailing the Spanish, Japanese, and British embassies, getting hard cash for not boycotting the ships.
