Very upset when he heard that Verges was in Paris. He didn't like being connected with somebody who had stolen money. I called Verges and said he better get in touch with Andersson himself, better see him soon, because he would keep putting him off. The fact was that Andersson and I went to Paris. That's when we saw Verges. Verges placated him, said there was no truth in the charges. In fact, the charges were reduced. Harbi himself came to London. The amount went down, from 300 million to 100 million, from 60 million to 50 million, and the whole thing was dropped. Buzerin, the business manager, was extremely indignant about the talk about misappropriation of funds and demanded an audit of the books. They found 6 million francs surplus. That was even more disturbing to them down there. Harbi (HAbBI) is supposed to have said, “This isn't swindling; this is an affair of state.” Buzerin was then given his clean bill of health and he went off to be secretary of the Embassy in the Congo, in Leopoldville. On his way back last spring from Leopoldville—he was no longer going to stay there; I think he is in Algeria now—he and his wife stopped in Paris and saw Verges. He had been in contact with Verges and he was very much tried family-wise, wife, this whole Bitat-Zobro Diffandou.

Our transfer was simply that here we had been working for Verges personally. The money there in Switzerland had been his money and the Algerians never made any attempt to get in touch with us. None whatsoever. There was a letter to Anderson (Andersson) from Chalion, who remained with the Algerians. There was an attempted phone call from them down there—probably Chalion or someone with the magazine—which Andersson refused to accept. So we really were never before the choice. In other words, he proposed the work; we were doing what he proposed. He was going to continue and the Algerians had no coherent story about the money and what was going on. At that time they weren't interested in the English edition. Later, when it continued, they did produce in Algiers one issue of an English edition, an imitation of ours, which was very badly done. That was the last. They never did any more. That was edited by Patricia Magowan Pinheiro, who was involved with a half-English, half-Portuguese leader from Mozambique who allegedly—his group is extremely small—was kept going by the FRELIMO people from Mozambique because of the fact that they needed a European to represent the progressive European element (laughing) for when the day comes for takeover by Africans—well, Carlos was waiting for the day when Carlos will be produced as a genuine Mozambiquan of European origin. She was also involved with the Portuguese. She wrote a book about Portugal.
