Section VI. Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C, and D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately; he is incompetent.

2. Barely adequate in performance; although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.

3. Performs most of his duties acceptably; occasionally reveals some area of weakness.

4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner. [X]

5. A fine performance; carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.

6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equalled by few other persons known to the rater.

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and any other indications, give your opinion of this person's attitude toward the agency.

1. Has an antagonistic attitude toward the agency. Will definitely leave the agency at the first opportunity.

2. Has strong negative attitude toward agency...irked by restrictions...regards agency as a temporary stop until he can get something better.

3. Tends to have an unfavorable attitude toward the agency. Bothered by minor frustrations. Will quit if these continue.

4. His attitude toward the agency is indifferent...has “wait and see” attitude...would leave if someone offered him something better.

5. Tends to have favorable attitude toward agency. Makes allowances for restrictions imposed by working for agency...thinks in terms of a career in the agency. [X]

6. Definitely has favorable attitude toward the agency...barring an unexpected outside opportunity. Will probably endeavor to make a career in the agency.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? No. Yes. [X] If yes, what?

7. Has an enthusiastic attitude toward the agency...will probably never consider working any place but in the agency.

D. Directions: Considering others of this person's grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibility normally indicated by promotion.

1. Was reached the highest grade level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.

2. Is making progress, but needs more time in present grade before promotion to a higher grade can be recommended. [X]

D. Directions: Consider everything you know about this person in making your rating: skill in job duties, conduct on the job, personal characteristics or habits, and special defects or talents.

1. Definitely unsuitable. He should be separated.

2. Of doubtful suitability...
