CIA Request for Evaluation by ORR. Evaluating Agency. Issued: 05-3/29,06. Date of distribution: 1 June 1960. Field number: IED-1983. Infected (3). Chief country: Mexico/Soviet Union. Due July 1960—19 June 60. Subject: New policy of Soviet Commercial Office in Mexico.

Evaluation: Please complete this evaluation within 60 days of receipt of request. Next for completion within this time is priority standard. Indicate choices by “X.” If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under Evaluators Comments. Normally, put one X in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further notes on use of this form, see reverse.

Subject of this report is of major importance in relation to our needs. No importance.

Information in this report contributes to our knowledge of the subject significantly, moderately, and negligibly.

Accuracy: substantially true, credible, doubtful, false, or cannot be judged.

Relation to other information: useful for confirmation, useful for new information, sufficiently known, at present we lack other information to judge accuracy or usefulness, conflicts with previous information, or appears to be fabrication.

Usefulness could have been greater with more detail, less detail and more summary, a less fragmentary approach, better organization, better observation or better exploitation of source, or both. Estimated in comments. No dependence on usefulness.

Requirements. Only if your requirement is citable. Report satisfies it fully, partially, contingently, or resistively.

Service to which the user is requesting provides asset information on subject: fully, substantially, or little.

None. Yes or no: Is this “little” in “none,” and is this “none” in “no requirement?”

Of the above is present and requirement within 3 days.

Yes or no: Does not warrant a requirement for repeating.

Name: Robert Napier.

Request received.

Date evaluation forecast: 9/11/17.

Suggested form for evaluation of policy or measures.

This evaluation form should be used when evaluating the effectiveness of a policy or measure designed to prevent or reduce the spread of infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS, hepatitis, or other infectious diseases that can be transmitted through sexual contact.

This evaluation form is not designed to assess the effectiveness of specific policies or measures, but rather to provide a general assessment of the overall effectiveness of the policy or measure as applied in practice.

Assessment questions:

Is the purpose of the policy or measure clear and well-defined?

Is the scope of the policy or measure clear and well-defined?

Does the policy or measure address the problem or objective clearly and accurately?

Are there any assumptions made about the policy or measure?

Are the data sources reliable and accurate?

Are there any conflicts between different data sources?

Is there sufficient information to make an informed decision about the policy or measure?

Additional evaluation questions:

Is the policy or measure comprehensive and well-designed? How could it be improved?

Is the policy or measure effective? What are its strengths and weaknesses?

How would you recommend the policy or measure to others? What changes would you make?

In light of this evaluation.
