Office of Personnel.

November 27, 1985, 1:53 PM.

The following is a cumulative of the previous ratings for each individual. No new ratings are to be made until the next period of review is completed.

Descriptions of Specific Duties to Be Performed.

a. State in the space below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. Examples: oral briefing, has and uses area knowledge, conducts interpretations.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this duty. Do not rate as a specific duty. Examples: giving lessons, develops new programs, prepares summaries.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty, not as a general duty. Examples: conducting seminars, analyzes individual reports, translates German.

d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility. Examples: briefing sources, drafts work, maintains air conditioning.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties. Examples: typing, coordinates with other offices, drives truck.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are: taking dictation, writes regulations, maintains air conditioning; supervising, prepares correspondence, evaluates significance of data.

For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if the supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive Rating Number.

1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty.
2. Barely accurate in the performance of this duty.
3. Performs this duty acceptably.
4. Performs this duty in a competent manner.
5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.
6. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.
7. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Narrative description of manner of job performance.

Specific Duty No. 1. Specific Duty No. 2.

Directions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Subject is outstanding in the development and maintenance of high-level assets. He has a wide acquaintance among local people and Americans. He has demonstrated administrative and executive ability. He prefers outside contact work to routine desk work.

Section D. Suitability for Current Job in Organization.

Directions: Take into account here everything you know about the individual: productivity, conduct in the job, pertinent personal characteristics or habits, special defects or talents, and how he fits in with your team. Compare him with others doing similar work of about the same level.

1. Of definitely unsuitable—he should…
