7. Ratings in Performance of Specific Duties. Office of Personnel — Nov. 20, 1967.

Directions:

a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during the period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty (no supervisors those who supervise a secretary only).

d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are:

Oral briefing; has and uses less knowledge. Giving lectures; develops new programs. Conducting seminars; analyzes new STEVAL reports. Writing technical reports; manages files. Conducting external liaison; operates RATS. Typing; coordinates with other officers. Taking dictation; writes revelations. Supervising; prepares correspondence; drives trucks. Conducts interrogations; keeps books. Translates German; drifling sources. Evaluates significance of data.

Descriptive rating number:

1 — Incompetent in the performance of this duty.
2 — Barely adequate in the performance of this duty.
3 — Performs this duty acceptably.
4 — Performs this duty in a competent manner.
5 — Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job.
7 — Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.
8 — Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs.

Mail room.

Specific duty No. 1: Conducting name checks to render case disposition. Rating number 4.

Specific duty No. 2: Alphabetizing and filing index cards. Rating number 4.

Specific duty No. 3. Rating number 5.

Specific duty No. 4. Rating number 8.

Specific duty No. 5. Rating number 7.
