Use Cubans to Kill Allende Kin

When Otero started to testify about his activities in Chile, government prosecutors objected that the information was immaterial to the bombing charges.

Otero was found innocent of federal charges that he placed bombs at Miami International Airport in October, and at the Miami FBI office, Social Security Office, State Unemployment Office, two post offices, a bank, the Dade State Attorney’s Office and the Miami Police Department Headquarters on Dec. 24 (Dec. 34).

A trial on related state charges was to begin here Monday but was ordered postponed until after the beginning of the year and transferred to Pensacola.

Otero remained in Florida until late December, 1976, when he was told by an FBI informant that the FBI was preparing to have him indicted on the bombing charges.

Otero then went to the Dominican Republic where he was arrested, then paroled to the custody of Admiral César de-Windt, father-in-law of Frank Castro, an Otero friend.

When a Miami federal grand jury returned indictments against Otero in the bombings, Otero flew to Caracas. Otero had $50 in his pocket when he landed in Venezuela, according to information in FBI reports. He stayed with Morales, a former Cuban political police agent and anti-Castro exile, then working with the Venezuelan secret police. Information contained in the reports alleges that Otero was told that if Venezuelan authorities moved to arrest him, he could receive asylum with the new Chilean ambassador.

While in Caracas, Otero allegedly told Morales that he had committed the bombings in Miami, except for the Miami police department explosion. He said: “He knew who placed that bomb,” Morales sent the information to the FBI.

In early February, Otero flew to Santiago, according to the intelligence reports in the hands of investigators. Otero told Morales, whom he believed would help in an exiles’ plot against Castro later this year, that after arriving in Santiago, he went to DINA headquarters and identified himself and said he was a fugitive from the United States.

At DINA headquarters, Otero said, he was told the secret police supported the Cuban exiles’ cause and would provide funds for them in return for a “favor.”

“The DINA (DNA) spokesmen,” Otero told the Intelligence agent, wanted him to kill Andres Pascal Allende and Anne Marie Brussier, in Costa Rica before Feb. 22, 1976.

Allende is the nephew of Salvador Allende, who died when right-wing elements overthrew his Marxist government in September, 1973. The younger Allende is a member of MIR, a Chilean revolutionary group that opposed the junta.

Otero quoted DINA (DNA) spokesmen as saying Bosch would be a back-up failed in the mission.

On Feb. 15, Otero relayed DINA’s request to the intelligence agent and turned to Santiago where he remained until March 8, when he disappeared.

Chilean authorities later said they had taken him into custody on April 27 and charged Otero with being an undesirable alien. They ordered him deported following a hearing May 21.
