The Berlin party convention be postponed until October 1969, the normal expiration date of the term of the present city Executive Committee and well after the national elections. The letter, which was read at several district meetings, also stipulated that the city and district organizations were to restrict themselves to routine monthly meetings with no speeches and no invited guests until next October.

8. In a tactical move to promote party unity, Party Chief Kendzia resigned on 28 March. In response to von Thadden's letter, the Berlin district party unit leadership, which otherwise remained intact, called a session of the Berlin Party Council (Landesausschuss) on 10 April to approve the postponement of the party convention. (Field Comment: The Party Council consists of the Executive Committee plus the 12 district leaders.) Walter Seezen, a member of the national leadership, was present. The situation was ticklish because the Berlin NPD statutes provide that if full membership meetings in four of the 12 districts had voted for holding of the party convention in April, the postponement motion would fail; there was a distinct danger that this could occur. At the 10 April meeting, the district leaders grumbled but approved the postponement until 11 October.

9. On Kendzia's resignation, Guenther Mensel, a member of the Executive Committee, was selected as Acting Party Chief and Speaker of the Party Council until a new Executive Committee is elected in October. Mensel, an attorney, was hesitant about accepting the job because of its possible effect on his practice, and did not commit himself until the 10 April executive meeting. Mensel's age (62) and stability were the main reasons for his selection. The only other replacement considered was Guenter Kleinert, also on the Executive Committee, whom Kendzia did not trust. Mensel's duties are to consist of calling and chairing pro-forma monthly Executive Committee meetings and of presiding at the party congress next October.

10. Kendzia considers his resignation a temporary tactical retreat caused by disagreements with the NPD national and Berlin district leaders, by von Thadden's public rejection of his "Berlin Program," loss of business because of unfavorable publicity, and a hit-and-run car accident involving a bicyclist on 27 March. Kendzia promised Mensel to remain active behind the scenes and set up a vacant office in his place of business as party headquarters, with desks for himself and Executive Committee members Frank Schwerdt, Joachim Rebuschat and Hans Werner Andreas, the de facto heads of the Berlin NPD.

11. Kendzia and a majority of the NPD leaders hope that the fall elections will bring some 25 to 35 NPD members into the Bundestag. This, they feel, will make the party more acceptable to potential right-wing voters in Berlin and thus enable the NPD to make a showing in the 1971 Berlin communal elections. (Source Comment: The Berlin NPD's major problem in Berlin is to keep its membership intact and its machinery functioning until 1971. Whether Kendzia will hold to his promise to direct the Berlin NPD from behind the scenes indefinitely, and whether he will emerge as leader in 1971, are open questions, because Kendzia has shown an interest in the current program and policies of the Free Democratic Party (FDP) and particularly in its "General-Contract" concept, which fits in with his "Berlin Program." A close friend of Kendzia's, (fnu) Nerchert, resigned from the NPD to protest its participation in the presidential election in Berlin on 5 March and has already made overtures to the FDP.)

12. Since Kendzia's resignation and the 10 April executive meeting, the Berlin City Executive Committee (under Kendzia's behind-the-scenes tutelage) has kept the Berlin NPD functioning and loyal to the Hanover leadership. Executive Committee members (especially Schwerdt, Rebuschat and Andreas) have attended annual election meetings in all 12 party districts. Through their influence, pro-von Thadden or neutral District Executive Committees have been elected in each case.

The district officers who led the opposition to the self-dissolution.
