May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? Yes.

10. Experience (mark with your prime position and work back).

Dates of employment: From May 1961 to present time. Exact title of position: Political Officer. Number and kind of employees supervised: 8–10. Classification grade: GS-14. Place of employment: Washington, D.C. Kind of business or organization: U.S. Government. Name and address of employer: Department of State. Immediate supervisor: Thomas Linthicum. Reason for wanting to leave: Desire to re-enter Foreign Service. Description of work: Analysis of political and economic reporting from Embassies and Consulates in Latin American countries; preparation of special studies based on these reports; conduct of official business with representatives of Latin American Governments in Washington.

Dates of employment: From June 1958 to May 1961. Exact title of position: Vice Consul & Consul. Number and kind of employees supervised: 1 (Secretary). Classification grade: FSR-4. Place of employment: Nogales, Mexico & Department of State. Kind of business or organization: U.S. Government. Name and address of employer: Department of State, Washington, D.C. Immediate supervisors: Consul General Robert Martindale; Consul General Terrence Leonhardy. Reason for leaving: Accept employment in the Department. Description of work: General duties of a Foreign Service Reserve Officer at the American Consulate in Nogales. Handled a considerable number of protection cases, maintained extensive contacts in the state and national governments, handled political reporting for the consulate. Transferred to Department in July 1959.

Dates of employment: From July 1954 to May 1958. Exact title of position: Foreign Affairs Officer. Number and kind of employees supervised: 2 (Secretary & Clerk). Classification grade: GS-12. Place of employment: Washington, D.C. Kind of business or organization: U.S. Government. Name and address of employer.
