Office of Personnel.

Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in mind their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial duties or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Moore is an exceptionally outstanding and well-qualified employee. His many years and varied experiences in intelligence activities contribute to his capabilities. As a Resident Agent, he not only carries out the duties of a Contact Specialist, but is responsible for managing the affairs of the Dallas Resident Agency. In carrying out these duties, he is conscious of the necessity for economy of operation, and determines that the actions taken are handled in the most efficient and economical manner. Since the last Fitness Report, Mr. Moore has trained and directed the activity of a new employee with such effectiveness that from the beginning his performance has been outstanding.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 30 April 1964. Signature of employee: J. Walton Moore.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 13 years. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: -- -- --. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Houston Office. Typed or printed name and signature: Ernest A. Rische.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I agree that J. Walton Moore is an exceptionally fine officer, but think that in comparison with others of his grade throughout the Division, his rating should be “S” rather than “O”. Date: 11 May 1964. Official title of reviewing official: Acting Chief, Contact Division. Typed or printed name and signature: John W. McConnell.
