The Subject claims that after he casually learned of his friend's arrest, he fled to the Spanish border. He had not foreseen or prepared himself for such a consequence, and he implies a conflict as regards leaving France. In any event, he was captured and imprisoned. The question arises in this examiner's mind as to why the Subject either panicked or was awkward in his flight, if he did have a chance to flee. It may have been that he unconsciously wished to be caught and punished in order to relieve his guilt. He was ambivalent about attacking the bank. If this is true, then important consideration should be given to the Subject's personality as regards plans for the eventuality of his being captured in the course of the project.

The Subject feels that he failed badly when he was arrested both by the Germans and by the French. He feels that these two incidents were a consequence of poor selection of friends and poor planning. If he were to find himself in the same type of situation again, he would take all the necessary precautions in order to avoid the same pitfalls. When he was jailed by the French Police, he was somewhat depressed by the fact that he had failed in his planning and also that he had greatly disappointed his relatives, who looked down upon him as a noisy and rash fellow rather than as a man who was capable of carrying out a crime. This was quite a blow to his ego. However, his ego did not collapse. There have been times in his life when he felt the entire world seemed to conspire against him and when everything seemed destroyed. He has always felt that there are ways to get out of a mess, principally by exerting his ego. He continues to believe that, unless a man is so weak, both physically and morally, it is always possible for him to get back on his feet or at least to hope that this is possible. Consequently, the Subject continues to believe that there is always a possibility to fight and to conquer. This optimism may be motivational in his present desire to affiliate with us.

In the two projects which involved liberating French prisoners and attacking the bank, the Subject claims that he was betrayed by another. However, he felt his betrayal was unimportant and consequently was not angry at these persons. Because he feels that there are certain moral values which he holds dearly, namely friendship, these persons lost his esteem, but he was more in contempt of himself for having miscalculated. Although his mistakes have seriously reduced his circumstances of life, regardless of their size and consequences, he does not feel that they have discouraged him about future possibilities. “If there is a future, there is hope!” The Subject feels that he has never completely lost self-control.
