And that his “maybe” was just a way of joking Loginov. Subj then answered the C/O that he felt strong in his capacity to deal with the Soviets, and that his joking remarks in no way vitiated that strength.

The C/O brought up the matter of Subj’s having told Loginov he would supply his personal documents to Loginov, and (solely with the design of reaching for Subj’s motive) stated that we thought it would be better if Subj did nothing to pass those documents to the Soviets and held them off indefinitely. Subj appeared a bit chagrined at the C/O’s request, and told the C/O why: he wanted to give those “bastards” his documents to show them he had nothing to hide, and that he was not afraid of them; if he didn’t give over his documents they might think they had something on him. Further he felt that he was buying insurance by handing them over openly, and gave as an example that he might be flying in Europe and might find himself diverted or force-landed in a place like Prague or Warsaw—and it would be a comfort to him to know that he had nothing to be afraid of concerning any irregularities in his past.

Therefore, Subj asked the C/O to check with his “bosses” to see if he could get the go-ahead on handing over his documents. Subj said if the answer is “no” he will comply, but his pleading to the C/O appeared as if Subj thought his was the wiser course. Comment: Despite the C/O’s method of challenging Subj on specifics, like the “maybe” and the passing of the documents, the C/O’s own opinion is that Subj has achieved a very satisfactory status in his dealings with the Soviets, satisfactory in the sense that it is in accord with the Station’s objectives in the case and equally important that it can be maintained because it is consistent with Subj’s personality and outlook.

7. Subj expressed a desire for another get-together with the C/O and his wife. The C/O explained that his wife would be leaving Mexico by mid-January—and Subj, who doesn’t need any pictures to be drawn for him, immediately hazarded the opinion that that meant that the C/O would be leaving not too long after. The C/O acknowledged this possibility, but said he had no idea of when it would take place. Subj wanted to know if there would be someone to take the C/O’s place when the time came, and the C/O answered that of course there would. The time for the get-together is left for some indefinite date before the C/O’s wife departs.
