Training Evaluation

Basic Orientation

Trait Record. The following indicates the various traits as observed by the instructors during the training period. The observations include student's participation and conduct in training and his reactions to various producments and situations.

A. Planning Work (Not Observed). Consistently displayed unsystematic approach to problems, inability to organize data, and careless handling of details. Planning frequently unsystematic and disorganized. Average planning ability was capable of planning situations or relatively uncomplicated problems. Carefully analyzed most problems and planned accordingly. Planner logically, analytically and thoroughly, anticipating and preparing for all difficulties. (2)

B. Attention to Details (Not Observed). Work suffered from constant attention to details. Work frequently missed by careless or impressive treatment of significant detail. Work showed acceptably attention to significant detail, but contained a number of elaborate errors. Careful handling of significant details, with occasional lapses of a minor nature. Only as outstanding for precise, accurate handling of detail at all times. (3)

C. Social Effectiveness (Not Observed). Unable to inspire confidence and respect in others. Demonstrated little ability to affect his associates' ideas or interests. Showed satisfactory ability to affect the thoughts and actions of others with no effect on his own interests. Displayed a well-determined capacity for influencing the thoughts and interests of others. Outstanding in his ability to influence the attitudes and actions of his associates. (4)

D. Facility of Oral Expression (Not Observed). Unable to address himself clearly, presented ideas in clear and incoherent fashion. Stated theory or estimation, but meaning usually clear. Displayed acceptable facility in oral expression. Displayed confidently one way of thinking, clear, concise. Outstanding in his fluency and clarity of oral expression. (5)

E. Adaptation to Training (Not Observed). Employed an interest or enthusiasm for training and failed to show himself to the demands made upon him. Accepted training separately, and showed generally selecting himself to the training requirements. Displayd storage interest in and acceptance of
