Fitness Report.

Section A. General.

Name: Williamson, Earl J.

Official position title: Operations Officer.

Type of appointment: Career.

Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1963.

Reporting period: 1 April 1962 – 31 March 1963.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

W – Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A – Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P – Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S – Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O – Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: In charge of Station's Cuban operations. Responsible for planning, directing and supervising all activities relating to spotting, assessing and recruiting of agents; collection of intelligence through introduction of agents to target area, debriefing of refugees, operations conducted with liaison. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Supports other ME Stations in conduct of their Cuban operations, including assessment, recruitment, debriefing and briefing of persons of operational and intelligence interest, as well as warm and cold pitches to potential candidates for detection. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Conducts personal liaison with leading officials of the Spanish Military Intelligence Service and National Police (DCS) on matters of mutual interest. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 4: Drafts operational dispatches and cables. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 5: Assumes charge of Station during absence of the Chief of Station. Rating letter: P.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the
