2.

...show any inclination in the Soviet Union or on any other, etc. Subject continued, however, to state that he felt a confidence with the Communists because of their past association during the southern part of his life when they formed a common entire (referring to his Ukrainian fighting days as a first time Germans). He said also that it irked him if the Communists were going to run for the future, and he wanted to be on the side of the victor.

Sasha then went on to ask Subject to do certain things for him. He would like the enemies to let the question come at the next meeting. To get this, Subject was to check with his friend, Jacob Gudlevich, the newspaperman, why it was that the U.S. was supporting Mexico's enemy on anti-muneralization, and why the U.S. was for control of nuclear power at Moscow. Also, he was told by General Zhdanov that he was influenced by a candidate for the next President of Mexico. If the latter, Subject told Gudlevich and Valentin the story he had already turned in to the Station: that Behrendtinn (Behrendtinn), of Cohenmoton (Cohenmoton), was trying to line up five Jews in the Jewish Community of Mexico to support his candidate for the presidency.

Sasha set the next meeting for 15 February at 9:00 a.m. at Schornes Restaurant on Thursday, and said that Valentin would not be there because he was going to be in Moscow on that date.

Subject told the C.O. that some time ago, when Sasha agreed to get Cuban cigars for Subject, he told Subject that Soviet couriers no longer transited Mexico to Havana, but that they went direct from Boston.

Subject also mentioned that Falel Yatskov had booked passage at Subject's office last week for a trip to Manhattan and Mannheimlo.

5. The C.O. at first approved the meeting with Sasha set for 15 February and instructed Subject not to bring the answers. Further, he was to throw the Ablandovsky bit right back at Sasha as being too ridiculous to put to a knowing newspaperman what was common knowledge about U.S. policy on nuclearization. Then, in Valentin's absence, Subject was to express concern to Sasha about being given a contact who probably did not know what the score was on everything that had gone before in Subject's work, etc. Lastly, Subject could mention to Sasha that he was reading the Pchenovskiy Papers, and he could not see how a Soviet could be in Intelligence could turn sour.

After checking with Francis Coyne, it was decided to continue on the track of annoying Sasha and therefore have Subject miss his next meeting. Subject was later apprised of the change in plans, and would not show up on 15 or 16 February.

6. Subject advised the C.O. on 15 February that Sasha had called to find out why Subject had missed his meeting and put the screens on for 16 February. The C.O. told Subject to be a no-show on 16 February. Sincerely yours.
