53. During those three months of “surgical operation,” David got in contact with Irakli LARDIPANIDZE, a boyfriend of his sister Helen who worked with the East-Ministry (Ost-Ministerium [Ost-Ministriium]). Irakly (Irakli), who worked with the “SD” (Sicherheitsdienst, Security Service), and who later married Helen, had just received an order to go to Paris.

54. David asked Irakli to give his travel document or order to him for a short time, so he could show them to his superior and ask for similar ones. Irakli obliged. David photographed the documents—he had no intention of showing them to his boss; he was going to make his own documents.

55. His sister brought him some forms which were used in the Ost-Ministerium, and he collected others from different offices.

56. Thus, David prepared for himself a falsified (falcified) travel document to Paris, signing it with the name of Police President RADEMANN. This name he used on many documents in later times.

57:1. Before using this document, he checked it, or made a rehearsal (rehersal) with his girlfriend. He gave the falsified document to the girl for inspection, and then, soon after this, he pushed his genuine police passport above the false paper, asking the girl about her reaction and findings. She said that she had understood that the first paper was a travel order, but she had not had enough time to read it through in full. This, David explained, was the trick: one has to give the falsified paper first, and then, without giving the checker enough time for its study, insert another genuine document which would attract (attire) the attention of the checker and detract it from the falsified one.

58. David used this trick with the controls and had a smooth journey to Paris.

59. In Paris David contacted the engraver ALLOU, at the corner of Rue Filles du Calvaire and Beaubarechts. He asked Allou to prepare for him a seal of the German SS headquarters. The man consented after a short hesitation, after David had spoken of Frenchmen’s moral duty to help other Frenchmen against the Germans. The same man later made for David many more seals and stamps of different German offices, like the Security Service, the East-Ministry, the Labor Office, the Police Headquarters, and the travel permission stamp for the passports.

60. Through this ALLOU, David also had different forged letter and order forms of the above-mentioned offices printed, in thousands of copies, so far as those did not have filigree nets printed in. However, he personally was able
