Full name: Westboro, Jr.; business or occupation: 60 William St., New York City. Robert C. North; business or occupation: 5217 Brodonia Drive, Hollywood, Cal. Jal. J. K. Singlaub; business or occupation: “L” Disc., Washington, D.C.; Investments; Tentillos; N. S. Army.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing “I” in the proper column.

28. May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character and qualifications? If:

35. Are you an official or member of any state, territory, county, or municipality? X. If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 39.

36. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours, by blood or marriage, with whom you live or have lived within the past 12 months? If your answer is “Yes,” show in Item 39 for each such relative: (1) full name; (2) present address; (3) relationship; (4) department or agency by which employed; and (5) kind of appointment.

39. Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of a Fascist organization?

39. Are you now, or have you ever been, involved in an organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government, or an organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which has advocated a policy of advocating or accepting the commission of acts of force or violence to deny others their rights under the Constitution of the United States of America, or the form of government of the United States by constitutional means?

If your answer to question 27, 28, or 39 above is “Yes,” state in Item 39 the names of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups, or combinations of persons and dates of membership. Give complete details of your activities therein and make any explanation you desire regarding your membership or activities therein.

30. Since your 19th birthday, have you ever been arrested, indicted, or summoned into court as a defendant in a criminal, punitive, or contract-related case, or convicted, fined, or imprisoned, or publicly impeached, or ordered to pay or delay fees for any law, police regulation, or ordinance, excluding minor traffic violations for which a fine or penalty of less than two years was imposed? If your answer is “Yes,” list all such cases under Item 39 below. Give in each case (1) the date; (2) the nature of the offense or violation; (3) the name and location of the court; and (4) the penalty imposed, if any, or other disposition of the case. If appointed, your fingerprints will be taken.

37. (A) Were you during the United States military or naval service during time of war? X. (B) Is the word “Honorable” or the word “Satisfactory” used in your discharge or separation papers to show the type of your discharge or separation? (C) Was service performed on an active full-time basis, with full military pay and allowance?

Date of entry or enlistment into service. Serial No. (if none, give grade or rating at time of separation).

31. Have you ever been
