High evaluation has been placed on Mr. Piccolo's performance. His current COS has especially commended him on his handling of a complex current case involving liaison, in which Mr. Piccolo has demonstrated an unusual grasp of detail, excellent judgment, poise under pressure, and extraordinary stamina. The COS has stated that Mr. Piccolo is already performing well above the GS-13 level.

3. Several supervisors have commented on Mr. Piccolo's quiet, unassuming personality, which belies the intensity with which he approaches his work. Underlying the quiet manner, it has been noted that he is tough-minded and aggressive in his agent handling and exploitation and is highly experienced and skilled in the basic craft of the intelligence business. He is linguistically talented and can function in both the Spanish and Portuguese languages. He has had the basic Agency operations courses, including some in technical operations. He is also an intelligent supervisor with a capability for lighting fires under his charges when necessary. He is highly respected and appreciated by all his colleagues, and though he maintains a low profile, he moves easily in his official cover circles.

4. Mr. Piccolo has already proven his ability to perform at the next highest grade. Most supervisors have emphasized his potential for assuming ever-increasing responsibilities. He has realized this potential with each succeeding assignment and particularly in his current one. He fits both the general and specific criteria for promotion. He has shown himself in possession of the requisite qualities of reliability, seriousness of purpose, imagination, and dedication. He has personally applied the specifics of his profession in a successful manner and has demonstrated his ability to supervise and inspire others in their application as well.

5. Mr. Piccolo's request for a one-year extension of his current tour has been approved. At the culmination of that period, an appropriate assignment will be arranged for him commensurate with the Agency's needs, his desires, and the continued furtherance of his career.
