Regardless of who they may be, to have anything to do with the Mexican oil industry.

5. LOG commented that the USSR was very much interested in establishing strong economic interchange, especially trade, with Mexico and were not finding the right atmosphere nor proper response in Mexico. He asked what, in his opinion, should be done to overcome this situation. S answered that he believed that the sovs ought to change their mentality if they wanted to trade with Mexico; namely, in the field of trade they should forget about Socialism and adapt the Capitalistic mentality. To trade with Mexico, sovs would have to establish industrial plants here, and to do it Mexicans must have a 51 per cent share in each case, which means the controlling stock; in reality this does not mean that Mexicans would invest 51 per cent of the value......

6. LOG went to the other item of the written report and asked how he went about contacting Chin-Heien TANG, counselor of the National Chinese (Net Chinesehab). S told him about posing as a reporter for the magazine La Vision and going there on the recommendation of Pierre RUDIAN (see FERNALD's previous contact report). S added that in the September issue of the magazine there would be an article dealing with National China and the Peking (Peiking)-Moscow conflict, and if needed another article on Chiang Kai-shek (Ching-Kai Shek) would be published. LOG told S that he was pleased with the manner in which S handled the task he gave him. LOG did not discuss the contents of this part of S's report and questioned S about TANG; he wanted to know whether S was in a position to keep this acquaintance alive and develop it into a sort of friendly informal relationship. He (LOG) knew TANG from some formal diplomatic gatherings and liked the person. S believed that he was able to keep the established acquaintance alive and was not able to guess how far he would be able to develop it. LOG suggested that S not allow too much time to pass before his next visit to TANG. S said that he could call on TANG on Friday, July 25, to explain to him that he did not succeed in getting the article in the August issue of the magazine and would publish it in the September issue; at the same time S would make it known that he was interested in getting the material for an article on Chiang Kai-shek (Ching-Kai Shek), which should keep the doors open for another visit.... S was in his element when he was describing this, and LOG was not finding enough words to praise S and at the same time to encourage him to do all he could.
