3. The Cubans. In the course of conversation, “Valentín” mentioned that Doctor Mercedes Pereira, whom L/3 had met in Havana, was currently in Mexico. “Valentín” stated that it was a very critical time for FAR and that everyone hoped something would be resolved in Havana with regard to concrete aid from the Cubans. He indicated that in the past both the Cubans and the Soviets had done more talking than producing, in both material and hard cash. In speaking of the most immediate needs, “Valentín” stated that FAR needed a doctor urgently to train the revolutionaries in first aid, and he asked L/3 whether he could recommend a doctor who might be willing to visit FAR headquarters for about ten days for this purpose. L/3 told Rowton that he promised to look into the matter soonest, adding that he had in mind his friend Raúl Moreno Ronchoe, who was a medical student and probably qualified to give first-aid instruction.

5. LIRING/3 continued that he expressed his willingness to help FAR (FAN) in all arms-procurement efforts, but would prefer to be able to talk directly with FAR leaders to get first-hand information as to their needs and arrange secure methods of payment. When L/3 referred to the delinquent account involving medicine and radio tubes, “Valentín” replied that unfortunately only part of the medicine had arrived intact, the other part presumably having been captured by the Guatemalan Army. He promised that L/3 would be paid for the material furnished and apologized for not having the money with him; he added that he received no financial assistance from FAR and had to live as best he could from his own resources. In reply to L/3’s query, “Valentín” stated that he did not personally know “García,” since FAR insisted on compartmentation, and there had been no need for him to meet “García” in the past. He then lectured L/3 on security, stating that FAR’s principal problem to date had been within the organization itself, resulting from laxness on the part of revolutionaries and outright betrayal by some members. He added that LIRING/3 had been assigned the battle name “Rafael” (“Nafael”) and that henceforth he should use that name whenever dealing with FAR members.

6. LIRING/3 told Rowten that, in the course of conversation regarding possible supply channels, he mentioned the possibility of airdrops from small privately chartered planes, using the Raúl Moreno as a pilot. According to L/3, “Valentín” showed immediate interest in this, commenting that he was certain FAR would be most interested. He then stated that he felt L/3 was an important enough asset to meet directly with César Montes himself and promised to look into the possibility of arranging a personal interview. L/3 replied that he would welcome this opportunity since it would clarify
