Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in agency personnel management. It serves to provide: 1. The agency selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career service; and 2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of coded material.

Instructions.

To the administrative or personnel officer: Consult current administrative instructions regarding the initiation and continuation of this report.

To the supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor also assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate with his previous supervisor to make sure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he stands.

SDIOT next replacement due: 16 Nov 55.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I (to be filled in by Administrative Officer).

1. Name: Christ, David L.  
2. Date of birth: M (85).  
3. Sex: F.  
4. Career designation: TSS.  
5. Division: APD.  
6. Branch: G-14.  
8. Date of entrance on duty: TSS.  
9. Nature of assignment: No Task. 5K.  
10. If field, specify station: 31 March 1955.  
12. Date that this report is due: 31 March 1955.  
13. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): No Task. 5K – 31 March 1955.

Section II (to be filled in by Supervisor).

1. Current position: Deputy Chief APD.  
2. Current assumed responsibility for position: 1301.06, 28 March 1955.  
3. Typical assignments or tasks during the past three to six months, listed in order of frequency: Deputy Chief of the Applied Physics Division; Acting Chief of Physics Branch of the Division; direct and perform many of the administrative functions of the Division; supervise activity of Division project engineers and in particular direct project performance of seven or eight project engineers in the Physics Branch; receive and evaluate operational requirements, request and organize new technical project proposals and contracts, monitor projects, test and evaluate equipment developed, and provide training as needed.

By EH. Date: 4/14/55. OCD: Yes/No.
