Personal Record Questionnaire. Part II—Operational Information.

Instructions to Case Officer

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. If it is not to be shown to the subject.

2. Normally, headquarters will be able to issue an approval unless requestees furnish answers to all questions in PRC 8203.1 and 13. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FR 10-215, paragraphs (a, §. 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.

3. Three completed copies of PR, Part I, including a copy in the subject's handwriting if possible, and two completed copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.

4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRY format in two copies.

5. Fill in all items if information is obtainable. If an item is not applicable, write “N.A.” If additional space is required for an item, use the reverse side of the page, keying to the appropriate item number.

Cryptonym (CRIPTORYM): LITANIL-7.

Section I: Contact and Development

1. Indicate how, when, where, why, and by whom the subject was first contacted or developed.

LITANIL-3, a former superior of LITANIL-7 in the French Embassy, handled her for several months before turning her over to Clyde K. Sherock (SHEROCK) on 7 May 1962. Sherock is known to L-7 as “Roberto.” Direct contact with L-7 was made in order to get better and more detailed information regarding the French Embassy personnel and activities.

2. Indicate whether the subject could be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to any responsible case officer for handling. If so, indicate to whom.

Subject could be turned over to any Spanish-speaking case officer through LITANIL-3, who continues to be her closest and most trusted friend.

3. List other case officers who have handled the subject or whom he indicates or has known, giving the names by which they have been known.

Not applicable.
