Quarterly Report

Station/Base: LCPIPIT (London). Agent's crypt: QRPHONE/1. Period covered: 1 July–30 September 1969. Case officer time: 12 working days per month (average).

Project: QRPHONE. Date of POA/OA: 23 May 1966. Costs: $4,334.14 (field costs only).

1. Summary of operational developments during period: Pursuant to plans developed as a result of Marie R. LUEBBERT's TDY, QRPHONE/1 made a continuing effort to deepen his contacts with various African personalities connected with the “London group.” Although some progress has been made with persons who seem of secondary importance, QRPHONE/1 still is unable to gain the confidence of the central characters such as Dennis Phombeah and Oscar Kambona.

QRPHONE/1's one-week stay in the U.K. was a week of intense activity for QRPHONE/1 and saw his local “credentials” put to a most demanding test. QRPHONE/1 performed extremely well throughout the week. See OELA-51297 for details.

QRPHONE/1 has been able to monitor the activity of Belgian Communist Rene Raindorf, who is attempting to become a key figure in the Palestinian liberation movement. See OEPA-2037, 2099 and 2123.

Following an overture from a U.S. newspaper, QRPHONE/1 made a quick trip to New York to consult with Headquarters officers regarding the implications of this overture on his RVROCK status. See LCPIPIT 4222 and DIRECTOR 28728 for details.

Through two unwitting female informants, QRPHONE/1 was able to obtain reporting on the Algiers Cultural Festival. See OELA-51298.

QRPHONE/1 has continued his monitoring of the activity of various African liberation movement figures in London.

2. Specific matters of operational security and cover: QRPHONE/1's vacation in Italy with his family produced a marked improvement in his domestic situation, with its consequent impact upon the cover and security of the entire operation. This remains a matter of concern and one which will be carefully monitored.

QRPURE is now entering into a more meaningful overt correspondence with QRPHONE/1, including discussions of his participation in the new magazine. This will have a positive impact upon QRPHONE/1's cover as a representative of QRPURE.

A new means of funding QRPHONE/1's salary is being sought to replace BIKNEE, which is no longer functioning due to unrelated problems encountered by the principal agent of that operation. For a review of the security implications of this matter, which are thought to be minimal, please see DIRECTOR 46178.

3. Estimate of agent's continued degree of access to targets: QRPHONE/1's access to his various targets remains substantially unchanged.

4. Extent to which agent has been able to service assignments, including intelligence production: QRPHONE/1 has approached all his assignments with enthusiasm and energy. He has fulfilled these assignments to the maximum
