Country: Haiti.

Subject: Plans of Cleland Joseph Charles, president of the Commercial Bank of Haiti, to overthrow the Duvalier Government.

Date of info: Early May 1967.

Place and date acquired: 9 May 1967.

This is unevaluated information. Source gains are confidential. Approval of content is determined.

Source: A foreign businessman with wide connections in Port-au-Prince. Source reports infrequently, but his information is believed to be reliable. He received the information from a person close to Charles.

1. In discussing the possibility of overthrowing the Duvalier Government in the near future, Cleland Joseph Charles, president of the Commercial Bank of Haiti, said he now is ready to act on his long-planned scheme to seize power with his military and civilian friends in Port-au-Prince, with or without the help of the U.S. Government. If he fails in his efforts to obtain U.S. support for his plan, Charles still intends to go ahead with the plot, but he said the execution of his scheme will take more time. However, Charles believes that it is all in the best interest of the U.S. to give him all necessary help in his effort to get rid of President Duvalier, who has brought Haiti to the edge of total economic collapse.

2. Charles said that he has rifles and hand grenades hidden “somewhere in Haiti” through his good friends. Cleland Octave Cayard, commander of the Aviation Coast Guard, and three Haitian boats, which carry cannery, will be under his control. Cayard cannot furnish enough ammunition for the civilians, but Charles hopes to obtain the necessary amount from the U.S. Government. He would like to get the ammunition from the U.S. aircraft carrier BAKER, which has been on duty in the Caribbean area for some time.

3. Besides Cayard, Charles has the support of an unnamed high-ranking Air Force officer. Charles and his military and civilian friends plan to set up a provisional junta and get rid of the “enemies of Haiti,” that is, Duvalier and his supporters. After the consolidation of power in the bar of the junta, Charles plans to run for President and is convinced that he can win since he has many supporters in Port-au-Prince as well as in the rural areas of Haiti. Charles claims that he “controls” the Catholic and Episcopal clergy, teachers and students, several businessmen, and key militants in the rural areas who are waiting for his signal to overthrow the present regime.
