Fitness Report. General.

Section A. Date of birth: 2 November 1908. Sex: M. Grade: GS-12. SD: D.

Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/WU/Bc.1. Current station: Mexico City.

Type of appointment: Career; Initial. Reassignment supervisor. Annual. Special (specify): Reassignment employee.

Date report due in O.P.: 28 February 1970. Reporting period: 1 January through 31 December 1969.

Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak: Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate: Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient: Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Translation of Russian language materials into English transcript.

Specific duty No. 2: Preparation of personality and assessment reports on individual Soviets based on the above.

Specific duty No. 3: Transcription of English language conversations.

Specific duty Nos. 4, 5, and 6.
