Chief of Station, Mexico City. DPO. Price. Chief, KURIOT. Address: AQUILA/Operational UV Lamp for Raymond H. GERENDE. Action Required — References. Ref: IDMA-16102, 9 December 1960.

1. As requested by reference, KURIOT is herewith forwarding the following:

(Confirming documentation charging you for this item will be issued in the near future.)

1 each Mineralight Model SL-3660 Long Wave Ultraviolet Lamp.

2. For ordinary F&S work, the difference between long and short wave lamps is very minor and the long wave UV lamp should prove adequate for the needs of Raymond H. GERENDE. Should a special need arise demanding the use of a short wave UV lamp by GERENDE, it will be supplied by KURIOT.

3. Disclosure of the existence, advantages, or uses of short wave UV lamps, or in any way making available such lamps to other than KURIOT personnel requires prior Headquarters approval. A copy of Instruction No. 20-2 containing the basic KURIOT policy governing the use of short wave UV lamps is herewith enclosed for your guidance.

4. Short wave UV lamps embody a definite health hazard and should be used with caution. Short wave UV rays quickly cause sunburn, to which the eyes are particularly susceptible, and should not be used without wearing protective goggles. Ordinary eye glasses cut out most of the harmful rays, but even persons wearing glasses may receive harmful eye burns from UV rays entering at the sides of the glasses. Short wave UV lamps also produce small quantities of ozone so that the lamp should be used in a well ventilated room, which, of course, must also be darkened. For the above reasons, it is advisable to use only a long wave UV lamp whenever possible.

Enclosures: (1 box and 1 envelope)

1. UV Lamp.
2. Instruction No. 20-2.

Distribution: COS, Mexico City with enclosures; RI without enclosures; TSD/SAB without enclosures; IWH/3/MEX; IWH/LOG without enclosures; TSD/LOG without enclosures; CITY; RI/FI.

Date typed: 5 April 1961. Date issued: 10 April 1961.

Cross reference to. Despatch symbol and number: 1034-9666. Headquarters file number: 9. 201-119523. Originating office — officer — typist: TSD/SAB, ATejeda, 2922.

Coordinating: Office: WH/3/MEX. Date: 3 April 1961. Officer's name: Stewart Burton (x2555). Releasing.
