Details for Administration of Attached JOTs

For Supervisor:

1. The office or division will maintain time and attendance records during the period of this attachment.

2. Overtime can be authorized only after the supervisor has checked with the JOT Inlanding Officer. CTR will be reimbursed by the division or office for overtime payments. The T&A clerk should report to JOTP at the end of each pay period any overtime worked by a JOT.

3. Any security violations by this JOT will be handled in the manner appropriate to the division or staff. Cutl/JOTP will be notified in this event.

4. Supervisors will execute any fitness reports covering the period of this attachment. Chief/JOTP will countersign such reports.

5. Supervisors will provide job performance data to the Chief/JOTP when the JOT enters a promotion zone of consideration.

6. JOTP is located in Room 743, Broyhill Building, Extension 3261. Any questions should be addressed to Mr. John Gerry.

7. It is requested that each supervisor submit a progress report after three months of attachment. In the event of rotational assignments within a division where supervisors change, a progress report should be submitted at the end of each phase of the rotation.

For JOT:

8. Any leave will be worked out with the supervisor and, if approved, must be communicated by telephone to the JOTP office. See paragraph 1 above.

9. The JOT will furnish Chief/JOTP with a progress report after the first month of attachment and every two months thereafter. Items desired include:

a. Description of activities.

b. Plan for next reporting period.

c. Names and titles of supervisors.

d. Assessment of value of present experience.

e. Any contributing suggestions.

These reports should be routed to Cutl/JOTP via the supervisor.

10. The JOT will advise this office of his room number and extension and the name of his supervisor as soon as possible after attachment.

JOTP:

Included in this document:

Name, title, position.

Department, etc.
