21. References. List three persons living in the United States or Territories of the United States who are not related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 16, Experience.

Full name; primary business or home address; business or occupation. Give complete current address.

1. No photo available. Address: see Reference 2.
2. No photo available. Address: see Reference 3.
3. No photo available. Address: see Reference 4.

Indicate answer by placing “X” in proper column. Yes. No. Indicate answer by placing “I” in proper column. Yes. No.

22. (a) Are you a citizen of the United States of America, or (b) as a native of American Samoa who has shown allegiance to the United States of America? Yes: X.

20. May you be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc.?

23. Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., or any Communist organization?

29. Do you receive or have you applied for an annuity from the United States or District of Columbia Government under any retirement act or any pension or other compensation for military or naval service?

24. Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of a Fascist organization?

If your answer is “No,” give details in Item 34.

25. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which is inegalitarian (ineganitarian), terrorist, Communist, or subversive, or which has adopted, or shows, a policy of advancing or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or which seeks to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means?

10. Are you an official or employee of any State, Territory, county, or municipality?

If your answer to question 23, 24, or 25 above is “Yes,” state on a separate sheet to be attached to and made a part of this application the names of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups, or combinations of persons and dates of membership. Give complete details of your activities therein, and make any explanation you desire regarding your membership or activities. See instruction sheet.

If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 34.

26. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours, by birth or marriage, with whom you live or have lived within the past three months?

31. Have you ever been barred by the U.S. Civil Service Commission from taking examinations or accepting civil-service appointments?

If your answer is “Yes,” give in Item 34 for each such relationship:
