4 May 1963

10.7 continued.

U.S. says that Santo Domingo is isolated. Miami refuses to put through calls from Santo Dominicans. They would not give VNG a call through either—that only U.S. press had preference. A Dominican wanted to call there yesterday and they told him they were sorry; he heard Miami conversation that they could not put through any calls to Santo Domingo from Dominicans. This would be a good thing to inform Radio Habana—that they are not putting through calls.

Calls are coming through the exchange from the Dominican Republic to Mexico. And's call also went through. NO thinks they can't call out unless they are known.

NO went by “Prensa Latina” to get a press bulletin. Got the speech of Castro. It is very good.

Dominican Ambassador had said he would resign, but has not done so. Due to some “declarations published in ‘La Extra’” that are against the U.S., perhaps if he does not resign, they might spread around that, in view of these declarations, this person is non grata. It would be difficult. It can be done, but has to be handled correctly. When does NO think this can be done? When VNG wants. With his declaration, VNG is now going to write his column for “Diario de México”—20 lines. Could do this there. Can read the declaration to VNG. Comment.

Came out in “La Extra,” 2 May, Sunday. Ambassador Dr. José Fernández Caminero declared the following in relation to Measín and Measini: the retired military man is very popular among the people due to the fact that he is anti-Trujillista. The same consideration is held by the leaders of the political parties such as PCP (of Bosch) and Partido Liberal Revolucionario. Measini was distinguished on 14 June 1939 during the measure of the ... and (Pageorgan). He even has a condecoration given to him by Trujillo called “La Orden de Constanza” for his brilliant military service during those three invasions. (So, this N.N.B. says that he is anti-Trujillista.)

VNG says Luis Suárez is going to the Dominican Republic. “Sicpre” is sending LS and Moya, a photographer. VNG thinks it would be good to hit this job—the Ambassador—tomorrow so they won't deny them their visa. As VNG thinks best, NO would like to see LS before he leaves. VNG is not sure they will go since there is apparently no way to get there. They could go via Kingston. There are flights to Kingston, but from Jamaica, one man would have to go by boat; he can rent a small plane in Jamaica for $200 or $300. They had even thought about going this way. VNG will tell Luis about this. Before he goes, he will have to get names of contacts from NO. Fine.

14.9. Out to 45-91-35. VAG asks NO, who answers, for Luis Suárez. Not there. NO is Repita. LS just left. Will he go to the Dominican Republic or not? Not sure. Did he get the visa? They are doing this now. Tell him to call VAG. VAG has to explain how to get there since there are no normal flights.

15.2. Out to 45-91-35. VAG asks NO, who answers, for Ing. Elizondo. Not back yet.

15.5. Out to 29-22-12. Al, Luis Lisalde (ph.), asks NO, who answers, for Ing. Elizondo. Ing. Elizondo takes the phone. Greetings. Did we get “that”? Yes.
