In the Soviet Embassy. S stated that he was on friendly terms with an official of the Soviet Embassy. TANG commented that this was unusual, because Soviets make friends with nobody. S stated again that he had no other way of calling his relation with the Soviet official than a personal friendship. In reply to TANG's question, S stated that he preferred not to mention the name of his Soviet friend, and TANG asked what position S had. S replied that, as far as he knew, the Soviet official was quite high up (so). TANG continued his questioning: What was the nature of their relationship with the Soviet? Was it a business-type relationship? How often did they see each other? Where did they meet? S stated that he never transacted any business with the Soviet and that they met about twice a month for dinner or lunch in various restaurants. S added that the Soviet played tennis every weekend and that he (S) sometimes went to watch him playing. (Note: The latter statement is not true.) TANG asked whether S played tennis, and he answered negatively.

6. At this point, S asked whether TANG was interested in meeting his Soviet friend, and TANG stated that he was. Then S asked what he should say to his Soviet friend. TANG commented that this was a good question and told S that he would think about it. Consequently, he asked S whether he could pass by on Monday or Tuesday (August 4 or 5), and S said he would.

7. In reply to F's question, S stated that he intended to tell LOG exactly what transpired at his meeting with TANG and that he planned to visit TANG on Monday so that he would be able to tell LOG whether TANG had decided to meet LOG.

8. S told S that he was going too far in pleasing LOG and was getting into a deeper and deeper mess by becoming involved with the Kat Chinese; it was obvious from the attitude of Mr. TANG that he had read him through and was taking his time to find out whether he could benefit from the whole scheme. Therefore, S should also take it easy and not rush to see TANG on Monday, that is, before seeing LOG; further, he should stick to his previous decision that it was rather dangerous to meet with LOG often.

9. S felt that LOG would press for a meeting with S as soon as possible once he learned that TANG had opened the possibility of wanting to meet with LOG. P considered this to be possible and impressed on S that
