Dispatch. Dispatch symbol and No.: HMMA-1 2095-1 543. Subject: RE “43 3.”

References:

Accurate drawing of the type door installed at LIMERICK (LIME RICK). This drawing was forwarded to Headquarters via HMMA-11926, 21 January 1959.

E. Casing Report on West German Embassy — During June, July and August 1958, SCANTLING prepared a detailed casing report on the new West German Embassy. SCANTLING’s engineering ability enables him to prepare accurate drawings and sketches from a minimum of data. Also, his personality and gregarious manner permit him to visit the inside of such establishments, with an appropriate cover story, and retain minute details which later he commits to paper and emerges with a comprehensive floor plan and important construction data.

F. LIMERICK Construction — SCANTLING’s long association with this target from the casing standpoint provides the Station with an unparalleled source of information about LIMERICK construction activities, modifications and reasons for same. All of the LIMERICK casing reports on file in Headquarters are the product of SCANTLING’s unusual ability and knowledge. Consultations with Station Officers about LIMERICK construction have been of benefit to the Station during this reporting period and they will continue to be of worthwhile importance.

G. Routine Investigations and Surveillances — Although the Station has several assets capable of performing investigations and surveillance, SCANTLING is still used in situations requiring the utmost in discretion and honesty. His activities in this connection are too numerous to list here; suffice it to state that he has contributed materially to the Station’s collection of operational information through his investigative efforts. SCANTLING’s interview of Paul Frederick Kirschoff (201-43645) of LCMAY-FOWL interest is an example of SCANTLING’s use on investigations (see HMMA-11749, 17 December 1958).

H. ESGEM-15 — SCANTLING served as the cutout with ESGEM-15 during the latter’s December 1958 trip to Mexico City. In this connection SCANTLING is a support asset which is trustworthy and dependable. SCANTLING never displays undue curiosity in operations such as the ESGEM-15 one; he accepts the minimum amount of information given and performs his duties in a professional and sincere manner.

I. LIEMPTY/3 — SCANTLING handles the administrative matters connected with L/3. Doris M. KILLGO provides operational direction to L/3. During this reporting period, the Station had hopes of SCANTLING taking over the operational supervision of L/3’s activities. However, after a four-month trial period with both SCANTLING and KILLGO meeting with L/3, it was decided that it would be desirable for KILLGO to continue handling L/3. L/3’s unusual personality and intellect indicated that he could best be directed by a PBPRIME citizen. Therefore, SCANTLING no longer attends KILLGO’s and L/3’s operational meetings, although he does continue to handle L/3’s administrative problems.

J. Raymond H. GERENDE’s Duties — During GERENDE’s absence from
