6. Lee Harvey Oswald (1959–60 and 1963)

As in the Frippel case, Nosenko (Nosenko) was involved with Lee Harvey Oswald during both periods of his assignment to the Tourist Department of the Second Chief Directorate (1955–1960 and 1962–1964). While Deputy Chief of the American-British-Canadian Tourist Section, Nosenko had a direct hand in the decision in October 1959 that Oswald was of no operational interest to the KGB and should be returned immediately to the United States. Before President Kennedy’s assassination in November 1963, when Nosenko was again in the Tourist Department as its Deputy Chief, he was present at the time the KGB Second Chief Directorate learned of Oswald’s application to the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City to re-enter the USSR. After the assassination, he also played a role in the KGB investigations of Oswald’s activities during residence in the Soviet Union from October 1959 until June 1962.

Collateral information relating to Oswald’s stay in the Soviet Union, and particularly concerning any connections he may have had with Soviet Intelligence, is meager and indirect. It derives almost entirely from indications of primary interest by the KGB (among all Soviet Government organs) in every defector to the USSR, and from inferences which may be drawn from certain entries in Oswald’s “Historical Diary” and certain statements made by his wife, Marina, during interviews on behalf of the Warren Commission. After President Kennedy’s death, the Soviet Government provided the United States with official documents and letters pertaining to Oswald’s defection to the USSR, his suicide attempt, his marriage, and other events inside the Soviet Union. This information from the Soviet Government generally agrees with the information from Nosenko. The materials furnished by the Soviet Government make no mention of any Soviet intelligence interest, or lack thereof, in Oswald.

In this sense Nosenko’s information is unique: It was and remains the only such information available on the 32 months of Oswald’s life in the USSR. Nosenko’s access to

For continuity of presentation, both periods of Nosenko’s alleged involvement, 1959–1960 and 1963, are discussed in this part of the paper.

Independent sources, however, reported on visits by Oswald to the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico City between 29 September and 5 October 1963 and on his (apparently overt) contact with a KGB officer under Consular cover at the Soviet Embassy there. Nosenko originally said he knew nothing of any such contact. In October 1966 he revised this to say that Oswald did not have contact with the KGB in Mexico City. Nosenko explained that he had been sitting in the office of Tourist Department Chief, K. N. Dubas, when a cable arrived at Moscow Headquarters from the KGB legal Residency in Mexico. The cable, which Nosenko said he did not personally see, reported that Oswald had visited the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City requesting permission to return to the USSR and that he had dealt with Soviet Foreign Ministry personnel only.
