Dispatch. Processing action: Marked for information. Chief, U.S. Division. Chief of Station, JIMWAVE ’66. Chief of Station, Mexico City: microfilm.

Subject: Dr. Jose Angel Bustamante, assetted 20:05 9/16.

Action required—references. Reference: Director 83396. Action required: For your information.

1. Before leaving on his last trip to Cuba in March 1967, he was asked to obtain information on Dr. Jose Angel Bustamante, reported to be one of Fidel Castro’s physicians. He was warned that Bustamante is considered to be a pro-Soviet Communist. Assetted asset.

2. He had previously met Dr. Bustamante via a common friend, Dr. Guillermo Davila, a Mexican physician who occasionally gives L-1 messages and publications for delivery in Havana. Davila asked to say hello to his Cuban friend, which L-1 did on 27 March. During the ensuing conversation, Bustamante mentioned that he attended the World Congress of Psychology in the Soviet Union in August 1966. He had previously visited the USSR in 1961, and found great changes in that country. He felt that a definite evolution had taken place between 1961 and 1966, bringing life in the Soviet Union several steps closer to that in the Western countries. He also found radical changes in the field of his professional specialty. Psychiatric and psychological trends in the USSR, he felt, had broken away from the rigid doctrines that limited their development until a few years ago and had grown more liberal. Several specialists who had been ostracized for psychiatric and psychological theories contrary to those officially accepted in the USSR had been rehabilitated. Asset.

3. He offered the services of his firm with branches in Mexico and Cuba to help Bustamante send and receive letters to and from foreign countries, pointing out that his firm quite frequently made use of Cuban pilots, a much faster transmittal method than normal mail channels.

Attachment: Letters (5), under separate cover. S/C attached by RI/AN.

Distribution: L2—C/WHD with attachments; 1—C/JMWAVE with attachments.

Cross reference to: CS copy. Dispatch system and number: IRB-A-31953. Date: 4 May 1967. Age if noted: 201-.
