Employer Information. Name of employer (or organization). Position held in the employer. Birth date (mm, dd, yy).

Application for Federal Employment. U.S. Civil Service Commission.

Instructions: In order to prevent delays, please complete all your application accurately and completely. Type or print in ink. In applying for a specific Federal Service Civil Service examination, read the examination announcement carefully and follow all directions. If you are applying for a written examination, follow the instructions on this admission card regarding assistance of this application. It will be required that an unclassified reference be made to any experience in the employment office. Be sure to mail to the same office as that of the person being examined by the examiner. Notify the office with which you are applying for at once.

Application number. Do not write in this block. For use of Civil Service Commission only. Appox. MAF. Saluted. Returned. Entered registered. NORIANA. See below. NORIANA. See below.

Place of employment applied for (city and state). Date of enlistment. Nation. State. Lee Liebant Wiggs, 10 Belmont Avenue, City of Massachusetts. Date of birth (month, day, year). Limits of regular housing. Name of sponsorer. City and state if born outside U.S. Height (inches). Weight (pounds). Place of birth (city and state if born outside U.S.). Annual salary. Marital status. Employer name and address. Employer phone and address.

Male. (A) Weight without skins. (B) Weight. Female. 5 ft. 9 inches. 14. Yes. No. (C) If so, give last grade and date of last change in space. 9-6 93450. Initials and date.

Experience: It is important for you to furnish all information requested below in sufficient detail to enable the Civil Service Commission and the appointing officers of agencies to give you full credit for performing your qualifications. Use a separate block for each position. Start with your present position and work back, explaining clearly the principal tasks which you performed in each position, accounting for all periods of unemployment. Experience gained more than 15 years ago which is not pertinent to the work for which you are applying may be summarized in one or more of the blocks. If your duties changed materially while working for the same employer, use a separate block to describe each position. You may submit any pertinent religious, civic, welfare, or organizational activity which you have performed, either with or without compensation, during the number of hours per week and weeks per year in which you were engaged in such activity. Military service should be described in the space below in its proper sequence.

Per year. (D) Check if you will accept appointment if offered. In Washington,
