Telephone conversation between Peterson and Van Cleave — Tuesday, 6/18/73, 11:11:

I had heard a rumor that, I thought, at the time, these guys—those individuals—can't be doing this again. But in the last week I have picked up a great deal of information that I think needs to be known at this location, involving the Wurbelt group out of Powder Springs. Are you familiar with that name?

No, I'm not. Zill has been handling all of that, and I just don't know anything about it, Mr. Van Cleave. You can give me what information you have, and I will pass it on or do what we can, but Bill has been handling that entirely. We work different accounts, and I'm sorry to say that I am totally unfamiliar with it.

Well, let me put it to you this way. Is there any way at all that you will be in touch with Bill, so that I could get this information to him by phone?

Well, he is up in Tennessee, and we can get in touch with him, yes. I could give him a call.

Well, let me give you a brief synopsis so that you can at least pass that on to him.

And in the process, I'll have to give you a bit of background on this subject. Consider it very important, not from the standpoint of the fact that what these people are involved in now is starting to break, but I think it is extremely important that this location gets something in to indicate that their contacts let them know what is going on.

Mitchell Wurbel is a gun dealer, basically. He has what is called a farm out at Powder Springs, Georgia. Basically, it is a place of property with a lake and a firing range and a big house and a gun shop below, and a vault with about three thousand Ingram submachine guns and other assorted weapons. Don Wurbelt has been in and out of all kinds of things. He pops up all over. He loves publicity, and he loves to imply a relationship with the Agency.

Now, about a year ago they were involved with some people from Britain in an attempt to set up a secession of the Island of Abaco, at the time the Bahamas were granted their independence. Now this was a very serious thing; there were people, including members of Parliament from London, who came over here, and they were getting to have a small army on Abaco. The local settlers on Abaco were all for this because they were mostly white, and the thing never got off the ground at that time. However, it was known; there were newspaper articles written about it. Later, in fact, the Prime Minister of the Bahamas was incensed by this whole scheme, essentially. If you could think of anything that would be against the best interests of the U.S. and the Agency and everybody, it would be some idiotic scheme like this one from a long time ago.

I heard a rumor from a source that this thing had better stop at the time. I told Bill and told him: I thought I might as well get my life back. I'm sure it's not much of a guarantee, but at least I wouldn't have to live to prove it.
