Continuation of Dispatch. Dispatch symbol and number: HUMA-34484. Continued.

"Consejo Superior" of LIRING, of which he said he was a member, had not yet taken up her case. This was indirectly confirmed by LIRING-16, who told LIRING-4 the same day that nothing about her visa case had yet been sent to PBRUMEN as he would otherwise know it, since he handled all visa correspondence.

4. There is naturally the possibility that LIRING-4's visa request was handled by LIRING via classified correspondence not seen by LIRING-16. This channel may have been used because LIRING-4's visa request brought out the old problem of LIRING-3's reliability in the eyes of the PBRUMENers. Although LIRING-2, LIRING-9, and Identity appeared sympathetic toward LIRING-4 and her projected visit to PBRUMEN (to the point where they advised her on more than one occasion not to come back to Mexico), they, at the same time, sought to clarify two things. They first made another attempt to throw some light on the sources through which LIRING-3 had obtained information of particular interest to LIRING. Secondly they brought up the question of "the Greek" (ROWTON) and tried to obtain answers to pertinent questions. LIRING, as mentioned by both LIRING-2 and Identity, is not used to being given sensitive information without at the same time obtaining good source description. Specifically, how did LIRING-3 hear of the arrest of the LIRING member involved in a subversive case in 1966, how did he learn of its proposed publication in the press of a Central American country, how did he obtain the report on Rico GALAN which he passed to LIRING, and how could he have learned of certain of the activities of Moises OROZCO Leal? To all these questions LIRING-3 replied by saying that he had good sources in Mexico and Central America and that he was not about to divulge them to the PBRUMENers. Both LIRING-2 and Identity in their conversations with LIRING-3 and LIRING-4 took pains to say that LIRING-3's conduct in his dealings with LIRING and PBRUMEN was "above reproach." They wanted to be sure, however, that he "had not fallen victim to unscrupulous elements constantly surrounding the revolution." To quote the old cliche, LIRING-3 "got their message."

5. ROWTON's introduction to LIRING-2 and other LIRING members by Rodolfo REYES Cortes and his subsequent meetings with LIRING-2 were bound to make the latter somewhat curious about this wealthy Greek businessman and proclaimed friend of "the revolution" who seems to travel extensively and appears to have well-informed and influential friends in many parts of the world. LIRING-2 was apparently ruffled by ROWTON's criticism of the LIRING efficiency (see ROWTON's report dated 1 January sent as an attachment to reference B) since he finally phoned ROWTON's "office" after the incident described in ROWTON's 1 January report. For some reason LIRING-2 made the call on a legal holiday when offices are usually closed, and the operator of ROWTON's answering service answered "Mr. ROWTON'S (in alias) office." This apparently made LIRING-2 even more inquisitive. During a one hour meeting at LIRING on 15 February LIRING-2 asked LIRING-4 about her relationship with "the Greek." LIRING-2 wanted to know where and for whom he worked, et cetera. ROWTON's report of 17 February covers this conversation in detail. LIRING-2 appeared to suspect ROWTON may have been one of the sources of the information passed LIRING by LIRING-3 and warned LIRING-4 "to go easy with the Greek," if not for her sake, at least for LIRING-3, who "has not always treaded on firm ground." LIRING-4 provided some "information" on her Greek acquaintance on 24 February. ROWTON, who had briefed her in detail on what
