14 August 1974

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Telephone Call from John MULDOON

1. Approximately 1655 hours, 13 August 1974, a call was received on C/WH/7's extension, 351-4221, by the secretary, Miss Annamarie Ruppert. She answered the extension by number and the male voice asked to speak to Mr. McTighe. The secretary asked who was calling and the caller replied, “John MULDOON.” The secretary then replied that she was sorry but Mr. McTighe couldn't be reached. In response to MULDOON's query, “Why not?” and before the secretary could reply, MULDOON became obstinate and asked who he was speaking to. Miss Ruppert replied, “his secretary,” and then added that Mr. McTighe was away. When MULDOON asked where he was, the secretary replied that she was not at liberty to discuss that. Then MULDOON asked to speak to McTighe's deputy and was told that there was no one around whom MULDOON could speak to. (C/WH/7 was on leave and AC/WH/7 was in the PMC meeting.) MULDOON apparently didn't believe this reply but then asked when McTighe was expected to return. The secretary replied “within a few weeks” (McTighe is on TDY) and then asked if she could take a message to give to McTighe upon his return. MULDOON became belligerent at this point, apparently thinking he was getting the “run around,” and replied, “just tell him to talk to Jack Anderson,” and hung up.

2. AC/WHD was briefed on the above telephone call at 1740 hours, 13 August. He decided no action should be taken on 13 August, but would like to meet with C/WH/7, Al Spera, on 14 August.

3. At 0950 hours, the following met with AC/WHD: Mr. Natzke, Mr. Wedemeyer, Mr. Spera, and Miss Lehman. In view of C/WHD's previous decision that no further Agency contact should be made with MULDOON, RUSSOS, or HACKEM, it was decided that no one would return MULDOON's call. However, AC/WHD would brief ADDO, Mr. Blee, on the above threat, and WH/7 would ask OPS/LIAISON to telephonically pass to the FBI the fact that MULDOON again contacted the Agency and threatened to go to “Jack Anderson.” A copy of this memorandum is being sent to OPS/LIAISON for this purpose.
