Says, “Never mind. The Cubans will give him an entry visa.” And then I had to get a transit visa because we were flying through Amsterdam. And this whole thing was taken care of in two days. The Cubans gave their visa immediately and The Netherlands issued their visa also right away.

Nosenko has reported that his functions with this delegation were purely of a security nature. He flew with the delegation to Cuba in October or November and spent about a month and a half there. During this time he accompanied the delegation everywhere it went: “I was with the delegation. They go to a plant—I go with them to the plant. I was with them all the time. They went to different plants, to watch the production. They met with some representatives of the so-called Institute of Agrarian Reform. They would meet with these people and they would have many discussions about how to increase production.” Nosenko’s cover assignment was deputy chief of the delegation, and shortly before departing Moscow he was introduced to the other members as such. He had one agent within the delegation and developed several “confidential contacts” during the trip, which turned out to be entirely uneventful and, for Nosenko, somewhat long and dull. He explained that he would not have accepted the assignment had he known how long the trip was to be, and that he had really wanted to go only to the United States.

On his return trip to Moscow, Nosenko was given a special mission. As he was leaving from Havana Airport, the KGB Legal Resident in Cuba, A.I. Alekseyev, handed him a package with instructions to deliver it to Moscow. Nosenko did not know the contents of the package until he arrived in Amsterdam en route home. There the wrappings became loose—it was bound only by thin string—and Nosenko took the opportunity to determine that it contained copies of “letters between Mikoyan (MIKOVAN) and Khrushchev concerning the prices of sugar” and drafts of agreements between the Soviet Union and East Germany, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and Romania. Arriving with his delegation at the airport in Amsterdam, Nosenko was told that a message had been received from the Central Committee of the Communist Party instructing that the package was to be delivered “urgently” to Che Guevara, who was touring the satellite countries and was then in Berlin. While the delegation continued on to Moscow, Nosenko therefore was driven to the Soviet Embassy in The Hague, and in the late evening of his second day in The Netherlands he left by train for East Berlin. When he arrived, however, he found that Guevara had left Berlin for Hungary. Nosenko refused to go any further. The package was delivered to Guevara’s deputy in Berlin, and Nosenko then returned to Moscow.

CIA travel records show that Nosenko, listed as a mineral engineer, transited Amsterdam en route to Cuba on 15 November 1960; that he transited Caracas from Amsterdam on 17 November 1960; and that on 19 November 1960 he went through Caracas en route to Havana. Our records also show that Nosenko again arrived in Amsterdam en route to Moscow from Havana on 13 December 1960 and that he left for Moscow on 15 December. There is no record that he travelled to Berlin.

CIA obtained a photocopy of Nosenko’s passport while he was passing through Amsterdam and again through Caracas.

It appears possible that his name was not removed from the original passenger manifest for the 15 December flight to Moscow and that his train trip to East Berlin went unnoticed.
