Fitness Report (Part I), Performance EGBT-100J, 28 September 1958.

Instructions for the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

Instructions for the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him on his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you share part of this report with the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item 8 of Section A below.

Section A. General.

Name (Last, First): Murphy David. Office/Division/Branch of Assignment: Berlin Operations Base. Date Grade: 03-15. Type of report: Initial; Annual. Period covered by this report: 31 July 1955–28 September 1958. Office sex designation: FI. Office position title: Deputy Chief of Base and Chief of Operations. Change and special: Annual. Special: Promotion.

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report was submitted to the individual rated.

The report reflects my own opinions of this individual. Specific let-to-sketch, if needed, is to be a copy attached to this report. This report reflects the complete opinions of my 上级 and previous supervisors. I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that we can work together.

Date: 26 September 1958. Type or printed name and signature of supervisor: /s/ William K. Hartby. Supervisor’s official title: Chief of Base.

For the reviewing official: Recognise any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

Continued on attached sheet.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

Date: 28 October 1958. Type or printed name and signature of reviewing official: /s/ John A. Gross.
