West Germany's National Democrats and the Grand Coalition

Germany's far-right National Democratic Party (NPD) showed another increase in strength in recent elections in Baden-Wuerttemberg, while the Social Democrats (SPD) lost heavily. This outcome in a traditionally liberal and prosperous state appears to stem in part from the dissatisfaction of many Socialists and trade unionists in the SPD with their party's cabinet cooperation with the Christian Democrats (CDU). Another factor was the discontent of farmers and refugees with the policies of the Grand Coalition in Bonn. Concern over student disorders contributed to the NPD gains, but this was not as decisive as some have supposed. Despite these gains, the NPD is unlikely to achieve a growth comparable to that of the Nazi Party in the early 1930s.

The outcome in Baden-Wuerttemberg confirmed the belief of many Socialists that their cooperation with the CDU at both the national and state level is proving to be unprofitable for the party. As a result, they have already decided at the state level not to renew cabinet cooperation with the CDU in Baden-Wuerttemberg, thus making prospects for the Bonn coalition appear less favorable. Nevertheless, SPD leaders in Bonn remain committed to the Grand Coalition and serious instability at the federal level seems unlikely. Over the long run the outcome of this latest election may have certain implications nationally, including the possibility that Bonn leaders may be encouraged to take a more nationalist line.

The NPD's Success

The West German state elections in Baden-Wuerttemberg on 28 April brought the far-right National Democratic Party (NPD) 9.8 percent of the vote, the most impressive total it has yet attained in any state. About 71 percent of the voters turned out, approximately three percent more than in the last Baden-Wuerttemberg state election in 1964, but 15 percent less than in the 1965 federal election.

Christian Democratic Union (CDU) strength fell slightly to 44.1 percent (1964: 46.2 percent), while the Social Democratic Party (SPD) achieved a vote of only 29.1 percent (1964):
