Report No. 345

18 June 1970

Nilda speaks to Ruiz about someone who spoke to her and wants to stay in Madrid for a few days, but they do not have any money. (Possibly it is ALFARIA.) They have asked her if they can stay at her house. It seems that the people she is talking about are on their way to Cuba, and they say that if they do not have the money to stay in Madrid, then let them go directly to Cuba.

Nilda says that CHAIN's son-in-law is going to Morocco as Cuban ambassador—the one he had as his secretary. When Alfara was in Madrid, he said that the son-in-law had neither the personality nor the qualifications for the position.

Ruiz says that if they are referring to the head of CHAIN's office, he is going to Poland as ambassador, but Nilda insists that it is the husband of CHAIN's daughter.

Two comrades arrive, a man and a woman. They are going to Holland, where they will spend a week, and they want a visa. They will go to other European countries also, and will be there for a month and a half altogether. (It seems that it is only the woman who is going to Holland and the other countries.) Ruiz asks her if it is her first trip to Europe. She says it is her first trip to Western Europe, but that she has already been in the socialist countries of Europe. Ruiz asks them what Havana thought about De la Nuez. Ruiz says it is not worth having an arrangement or quarrel with the “galleno” because of De la Nuez. Ruiz believes that the whole affair was handled by the C.I.A.

Ruiz asks them who has been named ambassador to Morocco, and they confirm the fact that the husband of his daughter (CHAIN-?) has been appointed.

They return to the topic of De la Nuez. Ruiz says the only thing they know is that he has gone, but they do not know where. In any case, most likely they had family or friends among the refugees in Miami.

Ruiz asks the girl if there are new people in the Ministry there (Havana-?), if new ones are coming in. She says that her enterprise has 71 employees, and that 55 of them are outside of the enterprise; the personnel situation is very bad. Two days ago they started giving language classes in French and German, and they talked with RAIL. He believes it is very necessary because it is very difficult to find people. In addition to their being trustworthy, what is difficult is their lack of culture.

Again they discuss De la Nuez's case and his wife. They tell Ruiz not to be too discouraged because it is the first time that anything like this happened to him here. Ruiz tells them about the illness of the woman, and that she never wanted to come to the meetings, but on the other hand went to meetings and gatherings of commercial people and others. He was never suspicious of him. Two days before, he had been in the Study Center with all of them. Ruiz says that it had been six months since they…
