24. Reflective. List three persons living in the United States or Territories of the United States who are not related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not list names of supervisors listed under Item 16 (Experience).

Full name (give complete current address, including street and number). Business or occupation.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing “I” in proper column. Yes. No.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” answer by placing “X” in proper column. Yes. No.

25. May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc.?

35. Are you an official or employee of any state, territory, county, or municipality? If your answer is “Yes,” give details in Item 39.

26. Are you a citizen of or do you owe allegiance to the United States?

36. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity any relative of yours (by blood or marriage) with whom you live or have lived within the past 24 months? If your answer is “Yes,” show in Item 36 for each such relative: (1) full name, (2) present address, (3) relationship, (4) department or agency by which employed, and (5) kind of appointment.

27. Are you now or have you ever been a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., or any Communist organization?

Special Instructions for Claiming Veteran Preference.

28. Are you now, or have you ever been, a member of a Fascist organization?

29. Are you now, or have you ever been a member of any organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons whose engagement in the overthrow of our constitutional form of government, or of an organization, association, movement, group, or combination which has adopted a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deny persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or using other means to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means?

If your answer to question 27, 28, or 29 above is “Yes,” state in Item 39 the names of all such organizations, associations, movements, groups, or combinations of persons and dates of membership. Give complete details of your activities therein and make any explanation you desire regarding your membership or activities therein.

20. Since your 16th birthday, have you ever been arrested, indicted, or summoned into court as a defendant in a criminal prosecution, or convicted, fined, or imprisoned, or placed on trial, or have you ever been ordered to depose, bear, or collateral for the lack of any law, police regulation, or ordinance, excluding traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $25 or less was imposed upon you?
