16 March 1966

Memorandum for the Record

Contact Report

Subject: Dr. Ernst GOEBEL

1. Upon receipt of POA on the subject, I called him at his office (Auxiliar de la Construcción, SA, Helbein 168, tel: 43-31-36) on 11 March 1965 and made an appointment to see him at 1800 on 14 March at the office. Since I had met him socially in the fall of 1965, he remembered me, which facilitated the contact.

2. I met with him from 1800 to 1835 at his office. He took me to a back office where we conducted the conversation. I stated my business briefly—that I knew LOGINOV was a member of the French Club and I desired information about his activities and contacts at the club. He was in immediate agreement to help me in any way he could. I gave him LOGINOV's full name, physical description, type and license plate of his car, and showed him pictures of LOGINOV and his wife.

3. Subject said that he had not seen LOGINOV at the club nor heard his name. He is sure that LOGINOV is not a tennis player, which is subject's only occupation at the club. Subject said he only goes there on Saturday afternoons and Sunday mornings to play tennis. However, his wife often goes during the week with the children. Subject agreed that both he and his wife would look out for LOGINOV. At my suggestion, he agreed to make inquiries about LOGINOV from club employees such as the manager or the bartender, who know everybody. He agreed to mask his interest by stating only that he had heard that a Russian was a member and to express normal curiosity about this unusual fact.

4. Subject immediately agreed to my request that this subject be a matter of strictest confidence between himself, his wife, and me (his wife is an American citizen whom I have met and on whom we also have a POA). As I was leaving and thanking him for his cooperation, he expressed his appreciation for the confidence that I had in him in a matter of this nature.

5. Towards the end of the conversation, he asked if I worked with Al White at the Embassy. I said, “No, but I know him.” He answered, “Of course, you would be with counter-
