Report of Training at Non-CIA Facility.

To: Director of Training. From: J. O. Richardson. Attention: Registrar. Through: Training Officer, SR Division. CSR 6 (DJ/P), 5018, X-5098.

Institution attended: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Dates of training: 10–16 June 1962.

Description of program: Technical Writers' Institute; certificate awarded. Purpose: to provide a forum where technical writers from industry and government can meet to discuss and practice writing techniques under the supervision of experienced teachers. Many of the instructors have worked closely with industry as consultants on special writing problems and training courses for technical writing. All of them have published in the field of technical writing.

Opinion of the program: This was an excellent combination of classroom presentations and writing laboratories. Almost all guest speakers had a useful message to deliver. The writing encouraged is of the tight-language, pure English variety, in the three categories of informative, directive, and persuasive writing. The schedule was full, although I believe it could have been fuller. The five two-hour workshops should be expanded to three-hour sessions. The contact with representatives of industry was especially useful for cross-fertilization purposes.

Training objectives and whether they were met: For our purposes, the training objectives were: (a) to see that our writing techniques in the reporting field compare favorably with those in industry, (b) to meet and become known by persons throughout the nation in the technical writing field, and (c) to learn new techniques in the field of communicating technical, scientific and engineering concepts, processes, and general information. All three objectives were met. I recommend that officers from SR/Reports and SR/Requirements-Targets, as well as analysts from SR 6, be permitted the opportunity to attend this same institute in future years. It is well worth the effort.

I certify that I attended the training program described above.

18 June. J. C. Richardson. Jacobsen U. Richardson.

Note: The original will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel for inclusion in your official files; two copies will be for OTR use.
