40. When he was jailed by the French police he was somewhat depressed by the fact that he had greatly disappointed his close relatives and because he was looked upon as a noisy and rash fellow rather than as a man capable of carrying out a crime.

41. Subject feels he failed badly when he was arrested by the Germans and also when he was arrested by the French. He feels these two failures are consequences of the poor manner in which he chose his friends. He feels it is now up to him to take all the necessary precautions in order to avoid the same pitfalls in the future.

42. There have been times in this man's life when he felt that the entire world seemed to conspire against him and when everything seemed to collapse before him. Yet he has always felt there were ways to get out of a mess principally by virtue of working. He continues to believe that unless a man is so weak both physically and morally, it is always possible for him to get back on his feet or at least to hope that this is possible. Consequently, even when he was broke, Subject always believed there was a possibility to fight and conquer. It is likely he will always have hope and optimism.

43. As regards his philosophy on the two projects which involved liberating French prisoners and the bank attack, he was betrayed by another. Actually, however, he could not have become angry at these persons because he felt his betrayal was unimportant. However, these persons lost his esteem because he feels there are certain moral values which he holds dearly, namely friendship. This would indicate that he is more in contempt of himself for having miscalculated than angry with the other person for having betrayed him. However, Subject does not feel that any of his mistakes, regardless of their size and consequence, have serious consequences as regards his near or distant future. There is no question that his mistakes have seriously reduced his circumstances of life, but he is optimistic and it is likely he regards this assignment as a golden opportunity which not only permits him a chance of success, but does not censure him for his past deeds. Consequently, he feels that to be discouraged about the future is nonsense for if there is a future, there is hope.
