Student: Flores, Daniel.  
Date: 2 Jan. – 26 Jan. 1968.  
Year of birth: 1935.  
Grade: G3-07.  
DOD date: March 1962.  
Office designation: SJ.  
Class of students: 11a.  
Begin: 11a.  
Finished: 11a.

Course Objective and Content

The Operations Familiarization Course is a four-week course designed to provide the student with an understanding of the Clandestine Services programs, operational methods and reporting techniques. Special emphasis is given the basic elements of tradecraft, the fundamentals of operational and intelligence information reporting, and the Foreign Intelligence, Counterintelligence and Cover Action program of the Clandestine Services. General orientation is also provided in special operations and staff communications.

Methods

The instructional methods used included class discussions, lectures, films, demonstrations, practical exercises and case studies. Practical exercises were conducted in operational and intelligence information reporting, surveillance, casing, handling of walk-in defectors and planning for, meeting and debriefing an agent. The operational program of various Clandestine Services Divisions were discussed by representatives of the respective Headquarters components.

Evaluation of Performance

The student's rating is based on understanding of the material presented as demonstrated by his participation in class discussions, the preparation of intelligence and operational reports, the application of operational principles in the practical exercises and the grade received on a comprehensive written examination given in the final week of the course which covered all areas of course content. Other factors considered in determining the final rating were the student's interest, attitude and preparation for assignments. The number of students receiving each adjective rating on overall course performance is shown below. This student's rating is indicated by an asterisk. Explanatory narrative comments are included with a rating of ADEQUATE or STRONG. When considered pertinent by the training staff, comments may also be included with a PROFICIENT (average) rating.

Unsatisfactory: 1. Adequate: 1. Proficient: 87. Strong: 25.

Mr. Flores' overall performance in the course was at the solid proficient level. It should be noted that he demonstrated a particularly good attitude throughout the course. He took full advantage of the training offered to increase his knowledge of the Clandestine Services.

For the Direction of Training

JACOBS

9 Feb. 1968

Date: 9-20-68.
