E.C.A. 18702. Approved, Arnold J. Lyack. Distribution: 2 – COS, Geneva; 2 – Chief, EE; 2 – Chief, AF; 2 – Chief, WH. HERCULES, 6-4-70. Date: 12/3/70. For translation. December 4, 1970.

Specific Information for Interpretation

The following specifications are to be made about the instrument in all its aspects, and these specifications may be changed, if necessary:

Description: A musical knock-in. Dimensions: Measurements in inches. Position on page: At the top of the instrument. Background: White paper, red ink. Paper: Cocoa paper (not to be used in print). Size: 32" x 40". Distribution: As soon as possible, by focus groups. Location: In the chef's office. Equipment: Not known to be needed. Performance: During the performance, the instrument is to be placed in the center of a round table, with seat backs and sides, as well as a central stand for the instrument. Power: When the instrument is to be played, it is to be powered by a 12 volt, 1 amperetube battery. Units: The instrument is to be displayed in a line of three units, each 18 inches long, and 18 inches apart, centered in a line. Format: The instrument will be prepared in a line of three units, each 18 inches long, and 18 inches apart, centred in a line, and 18 inches above the line of the first unit, and 18 inches below the line of the second unit.

The following specific requirements are to be made about the physical characteristics of the instrument:

Physical Specifications:

Length: The length of the instrument should be determined based on the size of the user. It should be at least 10 feet (3 m) long.

Weight: The weight of the instrument should be such that it can be easily held by one hand while playing.

Dimensions: All dimensions should be given in inches and millimeters. For example, the height should be 6' 0" (19.3 m).

Materials: The material for the body of the instrument should be high quality wood or equivalent. It should be resistant to decay and other age-related issues.

The symbol used for the classification should be a black square with a white c within it.

The instrument must be prepared in a line of three units, each 18 inches long and 18 inches above the line of the first unit, and 18 inches below the line of the second unit.

Interpretation

Description: A musical knock-in. Dimensions: Measurements in inches. Position on page: At the top of the instrument. Background: White paper, red ink. Paper: Cocoa paper (not to be used in print). Size: 32" x 40". Distribution: As soon as possible, by focus groups. Location: In the chef's office. Equipment: Not known to be needed. Performance: During the performance, the instrument is to be placed in the center of a round table, with seat backs and sides, as well as a central stand for the instrument. Power: When the instrument is to be used, it is to be powered by a 12 volt, 1 amperetube battery. Units: The instrument is to be displayed in a line of three units, each 18 inches long and 18 inches above the line of the first unit, and 18 inches below the line of the second unit.

The following specifications are to be made about the instrument in all its aspects, and these specifications may be changed.
