3 September 1963

Debriefing Report: Santiago Sánchez de la Torre (SANCHEZ do la Torre), also known as “Jose Antonio.”

Date and place: Safehouse #182, 29–30 August (0900–1300 hours).

Case officer: Clarence E. Smeryage (Claronce E. SMERYAGE).

1. Subject began to work against the Castro regime with the MRP in 1960. At that time he was employed in the Santa Clara power plant as a technician. His job was controlling the amount of electric current that was distributed. Attachment “A” contains a list of subject’s friends currently employed in power plants in Cuba. On 17 April 1961 subject made contact with a KUBARK infiltration team and began to assist the team.

The team consisted of Segundo Dorges, “Pepe” Gonzales, and AMARGO/1. Case officer comment: AMARGO/1 has confirmed the fact that subject worked with his team in Cuba. Subject permitted the team to install their RS-1 set in his house located at #219 Carretera de Camajuaní (Camajuanl) in the city of Santa Clara. He also safehoused the team on occasion and permitted them to hold meetings at his house. After the failure of Playa Girón, the team reorganized the MRR in Las Villas Province, selecting subject to be the civil coordinator of the movement in that province. Enrique Ortega was selected as the military coordinator. On 21 July 1961, while Ortega and subject were in Havana for discussions with MRR leaders AMHOOK/1 and Juan Falcon, the KUBARK infiltration team and many other members of the MRR in Las Villas, including subject’s wife, were arrested. The discussions concerned actions to take place on 26 July 1961.

2. Maria Rodriguez Posa, from Santa Clara, age 50–55 years, called Ortega in Havana and told him not to return to Santa Clara, as many people had been arrested. Ortega passed the information to subject, but as subject thought it applied only to Ortega, he returned to Santa Clara late at night on 22 July. He went to his home and on 23 July proceeded to work at the power plant. Maria Rodriguez Posa intercepted (Antorcopted) him on his way home for lunch and told him that the G-2 was at his home and that they also were going to the power plant to arrest him. Subject also learned that there had been surveillance on his home on the night of 22 July 1961, but the person watching the house had gotten drunk and did not see subject when he returned from Havana. From that moment until entering an Embassy on 6 September 1962, subject lived “black.”

3. Subject proceeded to the outskirts of Santa Clara, where a friend, Efrain Waren, resided. His friend told him to go to Havana. While driving to Havana, subject met another person who informed him that the G-2 had a roadblock on the highway at Colon, Matanzas, and that all cars were being searched. On 24 July 1961, subject went to a beach called “Ganuza,” located on the north coast of Las Villas near Corralillo. Subject’s sister had a home at “Ganuza,” so he left his car there and proceeded to Havana with some friends of his sister. Later, the G-2 confiscated his auto. It is interesting to note that the G-2, after confiscating subject’s auto at the beach, believed that subject had departed from Cuba. Subject thereafter communicated with his wife by sending her letters in jail via Miami, where they were postmarked.
