Among these governments and two international agencies, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and PICAS, none of which has been provided with the means adequate to the performance of their tasks assigned it, and the latter of which are only just becoming fully operational. In consequence of IRA's closure the various voluntary agencies, such as IOMC, IWF and WCC, etc., have been deprived of facilities which were provided by IRA in the past, with the result that they have been compelled to curtail their activities. Neither of IRA's successors has assumed the vast and vital coordinating function performed by IRA, with the result that the present confusion is discouraging. It may develop that the New State Department–NSA program for neo-refugees will clarify this confused situation, but at present it, itself, is as yet an unknown factor and naturally runs the risk of at the field level having so far only served to confound the confusion.

The period of IRA's existence coincided with the period of mass emigration, whereas at present emigration possibilities are small and uncertain, with the result that to the hard core remnant, which cannot be moved, is being added the small but steady flow of new arrivals, most of whom are unable to emigrate and who must also face the appalling employment conditions in the frontier countries of Germany, Austria, Italy and Trieste (in the other frontier countries of Greece and Turkey, the situation is probably similar) and the intermediary receiving countries such as France and Britain. Out of the more slowly moving remnants, particularly in the frontier countries, the possibility exists for the formation of more stable national committees, which would hence be more susceptible of control.

During the early years of NCFE's existence the frontier and intermediary receiving countries were either absorbed in post-war reconstruction or were subject to military occupation and hence were not in a position to take an active interest in the refugees as an instrument of their foreign policy. NCFE, in the U.S., therefore, could afford to ignore most developments of exile activity in Europe, reassuring itself that the headquarters of the exile national councils were in the U.S. under nominal NCFE control. Normally, of course, each of these countries has specific interests in Eastern Europe, which do not necessarily coincide with the ones of the U.S. There are now strong indications that the situation is more rapidly approaching its more normal aspect and that it is still in the process of change in this direction.

In January the British-backed Central and Eastern European Commission of the European Movement held its first meeting in London; in April the French Comité National pour l'Europe Libre emerged; and in June the Germans attempted to bring about the emergence of a central organization of refugees, which, in its composition, reflected traditional German sympathies with the Separatist movements of Eastern Europe, a policy which is in direct conflict with that of NCFE and RFE. Although the authorities, particularly in the frontier countries, probably lack
