Because he wants to make sure that they have grown larger. It is mainly fictitious names, many of them.

He's got Carlos. He's supposed to be from Spain. This was a name made up by Chen-Valdes. Valdes was actually a person, a Spanish scientist and chemist, who works for the CNRS, the Centre national de la recherche scientifique (The Centre Nationale de Research Scientifique), in Paris. He did write the articles on Spain under Chen's supervision with strong rewriting. His real name is Lopez, not Martin Valdes. His first initial is S. Martin Valdes is not his real name. His address is Méridional.

He is the person who is now wandering about very much at odds, but he is still very well informed about the Spanish situation. I think that if approached in the proper fashion, he might be willing to talk.

(How old is he?)

In his late thirties. I had no trouble talking with him. He is very bitter.

(Why?)

He was expelled from the Proletario group, which he had founded, and more or less relegated. He isn't really made for practical politics, and it is a matter of pride, etc., but he keeps his hand in. He said he wanted to go see Grippa, but he didn't have much idea of doing it. He is the one who told me about what was going on in the Spanish group. I could have gotten more. He had no idea that he was pumping him for information. But he seemed approachable, willing to talk about the Spanish situation. He can lecture for hours. He is the professorial type, not for the rough and tumble of practical politics. He was used by Chen.

(What caused his rupture with the group?)

I didn't get the exact story. He had Proletario. They put out a four-page newsletter, most of which was theory written by Valdes, but was rewritten by Chen, who was in contact with the members of the group. At one time, Valdes and his wife were actually told that they were going to edit Revolution, Spanish edition, which was going to be published in Europe. By the way, the Spanish edition does exist, so I'm told, in Bogota.

Their underground group has nothing to do with Verges. It was brought about by the movement of Charles I. Charles has started a kind of Fidelista movement and is getting Chinese support. I think it is quite pro-Chinese. They had quite a scandal about misappropriation of funds. Apparently the Chinese were giving them fifteen thousand, twenty-five thousand, and twenty thousand, and ten thousand of it would arrive, and somewhere along the line on the way to 70,000 on the way to Einge, Europe would disappear. One of the persons was expelled.
