In consideration of my employment on the terms hereinafter set forth, I, Francisco Bartee, hereinafter called employee, hereby agree to the following conditions of employment:

1. That the term “employer” as used in this agreement shall be the Government of the Republic of the Congo, or any designated Department or Agency of said Government, or any Company or Agency that the said Government may designate.

2. That the service to be rendered by the employee under this agreement is to be an aircraft pilot, with no specific aircraft assignment.

3. That the term of employment under this agreement shall be for a period of one year from 1 December 1985. During the first six-month term of this agreement, this agreement may be terminated by the employer at any time by thirty days’ written notice in advance to the employee. During the last six-month term of this agreement, this agreement may be terminated by either the employee or the employer by thirty days’ written notice in advance to the other party.

4. That the employee shall be paid a basic, all-inclusive salary of Six Hundred ($600.00) Dollars per month during the first six months. However, at any time during the tenure of this contract, if you are certified in writing by the Chief Pilot as Pilot in Command, your base salary will be increased to Eight Hundred ($800.00) Dollars per month on the effective date of such certification. Additionally, you shall be paid an additional hourly rate per flying hour for all flight time in excess of sixty hours per schedule listed in Amendment No. 2 of this contract. During the last six-month term of this agreement, the employee’s base pay is increased an additional One Hundred ($100.00) Dollars.

5. That the employee accepts the responsibility of the payment of all applicable taxes on all income earned by him under the terms of this agreement.

6. That the employee shall be furnished round-trip tourist-class air transportation costs from Miami, Florida, to destination and return, and all other expenses directly relating to the travel involved. In the event that, at the termination of this agreement, the employee accepts employment with an employer other than the Government of the Republic of the Congo, the return transportation cost shall not be paid to said employee. The return ticket shall be reimbursed upon arrival at destination.

7. Insurance Benefits:

The employee shall be enrolled in the employer’s group insurance program, for which the employer pays the total premium. The insurance program provides death, disability, and medical benefits for the employee substantially as follows:

(1) $10,000 payable in the event of the employee’s death from any cause whatsoever during the term of this agreement.
