Headquarters has carefully considered the case of LIREALI-1 from the standpoint of ramifications of the compromise of January 1968 and of his operational utilization by the Station. With regard to the compromise, Headquarters tends to believe that the damage done by that occurrence is somewhat greater than the Station estimates. It is obvious, however, that no one now or probably even in the future can arrive at a hard estimate of the degree to which LIREALI-1 was blown. We can all agree and must assume that he has been compromised to some degree. The minimum degree of compromise would presumably be a listing of LIREALI-1's name in local Soviet files, and presumably also in the Moscow headquarters central registry, as "possible A. I. S." While such a label is unfortunate, could affect future assignments, and will limit his sphere of activity in Mexico, there remains a wide area of operations in which he can be employed. The Mexican authorities are, to the best of our knowledge, unaware of LIREALI-1's activities and sponsorship. Given the improved operational security patterns and overall professional handling which must accompany LIREALI-1's future use in the light of the unfortunate flap, we feel that he can continue to be of service at his present post. In spite of the obvious special need for a more careful weighing of operational risk versus gain factors (even more important here than in the case of the usual presumably "clean" non-official agent), we feel that neither the flap nor his LPOLODE status should inhibit the Station in the energetic use of his not inconsiderable talents. Headquarters can appreciate the necessarily slow pace of the developmental activity to which he has been assigned, as well as the required alterations of his targets—both of which factors have been largely beyond Station control.

(continued)

Distribution: Original and one—COS, Mexico City.

Cross-reference to: Dispatch symbol and number HMMF-16-197, dated 22 July 1968. RYBAT. Moscow file number 201-585-128.

RI Chrono. Originating office: Wh/1/Nancy Perkins/Iq. Originating officer: RYBAT. Extension: 16954. Coordinating: C/Wn/F1, 16 July 1968, Koe E. Lients. CCS/LRECH, 17 July 1968. CCS/D-5, 17 July 1968, Eleris D. Hilt.
