Field Information Report

Country: Mexico

Report No.: HMM-1331

Subject: Alicia Romero G. (Garzun)

Date of info: May–August 1956

Place acquired: Mexico City

Date acquired: 12 September 1956

Date of report: 19 September 1956

Source, source evaluation, appraisal of content: Source A: Mexican business with contacts in journalistic circles, B-2 (paragraphs 1, 3, 4, and 5). Source B: Source with access to Soviet official circles in Mexico, B-doc (paragraph 2).

The following information has been developed on Alicia Romero as a suspicious contact of Grigorios Nikiporov, Soviet Naval Attaché.

1. An investigation of Avenida Coyoacan 624-2, the residence given as that of the subject, showed it to be occupied by Maria Eugenia Romero de Haro. Her husband is related to Captain Antonio Haro Oliva, husband of Nadia Haro Oliva, who is an actress in a show called “The Four Colonels.”

2. It has been ascertained that on 7 May 1956 a man described as Major Haro Oliva, a movie producer, was in contact withkurikoforov, Soviet cultural and intelligence officer, Mexico.

3. Alicia Romero G. has been identified as being in charge of the photographic department of a magazine named CRAZ, published at Avenida Juarez 20-22 in Mexico City.

Comment: A copy of this magazine is being retained in Station files.

The director of the magazine is Jorge Haro Cabrera, husband of Maria Eugenia Romero de Haro, noted above, and he resides at Avenida Coyoacan 624-2. He pays 750 pesos per month rent.

A. Alicia Romero G. is the sister-in-law of Jorge Haro Cabrera. She is the daughter of Maria de la Luz (widow) de Romero. Alicia Romero reportedly is the mistress of various politicians. She claims her home to be at Av. Coyoacan 624-2. Alicia Romero is reported to be pro-Communist and to be a member of the FKI. She is to be supported by that party in the forthcoming elections for the post of Federal Deputy.

Comment: Her connections with politics and politicians explain some of the report noted in the reference.
