ATT TO UFGA-19569 PG 3

Continued.

Mrs. Orozco told CAS source.

12. Orozco told sub-source that Crizondo had set up the meeting for Wednesday morning, 9 December, with the two persons who would accompany him on the trip. Orozco met them on Flagler Street at a specific corner which Orozco did not mention to sub-source.

13. Orozco said that he had asked for and received $400.00 for each member of the crew. It is unclear whether Orozco actually received this sum of money for himself as well, plus a promise to take care of all of their families if they did not return.

14. Orozco called sub-source by telephone late on the evening of 14 December to tell him that he was “on his way to the Keys.” Orozco told sub-source that the arrangements for the money and the assurances to take care of the families had been agreed upon.

15. At a second meeting between Mrs. Orozco and CAS source on 8 January, Mrs. Orozco told CAS source that she had come into the possession of some information from an unnamed fisherman who had recently come out of Cuba. This information indicated that several arrests had been made in the same area in which her husband intended to infiltrate. Mrs. Orozco (CROZCO) said that she had also heard a radio broadcast the day before, 7 January, stating that four infiltrators had been picked up in the Cardenas/Matanzas area of Matanzas Province. Mrs. Orozco had called Crizondo and insisted upon seeing “Jorge” to give this information to him personally.

16. “Jorge” and Crizondo (ORIZONDO) arrived at her home about 2000 hours, 7 January. Mrs. Orozco said that she told “Jorge” the information about arrests in the area and mentioned a person named “Pedro.” Mrs. Orozco said that “Jorge” had pricked up his ears at the mention of the name “Pedro.” “Jorge” asked Mrs. Orozco the last name of “Pedro.” Mrs. Orozco (CROZCO) replied that she did not know. “Jorge” asked what business this “Pedro” was in. Mrs. Orozco said that she thought that “Pedro” owned a restaurant in Cardenas, Matanzas Province. According to Mrs. Orozco, “Jorge” then identified “Pedro” as Pedro Barbi (or Balbi) Febles and said that Barbi did not “work with the Americans” or with any organization but that he had helped many people. Mrs. Orozco said that this piece of news worried her greatly because her husband had told her he intended to contact this person. According to Mrs. Orozco, Crizondo (ORIZONDO) then broke into the conversation to declare that “we,” presumably meaning she and “Jorge,” had done all the planning for Orozco’s trip and that Orozco was not supposed to contact Barbi according to this plan. Mrs. Orozco (CROZCO) reported that “Jorge” did not comment about Crizondo’s use of the term “we.”

17. The license number of the automobile in which “Jorge” and Crizondo arrived was noted as a New York plate, BU-5523. The car was described as a large Fiat. This license
