Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Muster of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra jobs are needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This is Mr. Randall's first fitness report for a Headquarters assignment following nearly 9 years in the field, of which over 4 years were at the Washington Base. Even with this field background of operational activity in the USA, Subject finds himself faced with a different kind of target situation than he had at the Washington Base. Since the Los Angeles and San Francisco Bases have little in terms of a large PCS diplomatic community, as compared with Washington, their targeting for the most part is aimed at those foreign nationals, designated as important targets by the area divisions, who are graduate students in U.S. universities.

The reporting period, of 3 1/2 months, is too short a time to give a fair evaluation of Subject's performance. This much can be said. Subject has undertaken his responsibilities with enthusiasm and a willingness to learn. He has made mistakes, but these were “par for the course” and none that were not retrievable and correctable. Given the way he has jumped into the fray, I would characterize his overall performance as evincing exceptional proficiency. He is conscious of and maintains a good balance in the outgo of funds for field operational purposes. He is a good supervisor. He has more to absorb and digest in terms of the myriad problems facing an officer giving total support to two Bases. He has to date made an auspicious beginning. As a desk officer, agent recruitment is not part of his duties.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date. Signature of employee.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 3 1/2. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Subject is on TDY outside of the USA.

Date: 8 April 1970. Official title of supervisor: C/DOJ/I. Typed or printed name and signature: Joseph J. Bullock.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

I think the above rating is an eminently fair and accurate rating of Mr. Randall. He has caught on quickly and has performed well. I look forward to a continuing good performance from this officer.

9 April 1970.

DC10/1.

Walter L. O'Hrion
