Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Since the previous Fitness Report, employee has been designated as the alternate to the Station's Records Officer. During periods when the Records Officer has been on duty elsewhere, this employee has assumed responsibility for the Station's records establishment and performed his duties in a competent manner. Based on these considerations, the ratings contained in Sections B, C, and D were determined. Note Section D, Items 1, 2, 3, 5, and 10. Employee needs more experience in the following:

1. The analysis of intelligence material for file categorization (note Section D, Item 4).
2. Records Management techniques.
3. More experience in the interpretation of data in memoranda preparation (note Section D, Items 7 and 9).

His supervisor feels that considerable progress has been made on the points enumerated above, and as the employee gains experience, these weaknesses should reconcile themselves. His supervisor will continue to assign him duties designed to broaden his knowledge and effectiveness in records management. (Cont'd)

Section F. Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report. Date: 20 May 1959. Signature of employee: Lorenzo B. Sanchez.

By supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 17 months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employer under my supervision less than 90 days. Other (Specify): 20 May 1959. Report made within one week. Office of Personnel, CS Freedom. Lorenzo B. Sanchez (Loreno B. Sanchez).

By reviewing official. X I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not supplementally paralleled with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official. Date: 20 May 1959. Official title or designation: Acting Chief of Station. Person who performs the functions and responsibilities of the employee.
