Report No: TKH-1510

Date: February 20, 1952

c. The third stage, which seems to be going on now, is the ever increasing number of reapproachments between the Orléonzo and PAU labor leaders and the communists. This is the result of A and B (more), and is particularly hastened by the strong undercurrent of disaffiliation with the FRIO regime combined with their desire to vote this regime out of power in the forthcoming elections.

3. As an example of the success of this campaign, source supplies the following. In the Sindicato Provincial de Obreros de la Plaza de la Habana, elections for a new executive committee were held January 17, 1952. The anti-communist syndicate led by Ramón Llona won by more than 100 votes, receiving 352 votes in all. However, the Orléonzo candidates within the syndicate, supported by the communists and members of the Bloque Chico (Eóque Chico) del PAU, obtained 247 votes. In the Sindicato Textilero de San Antonio de los Baños, elections were also held recently. Again, the Orléonzo, communists, and members of the PAU united against the anti-communist candidates. In this case, the anti-communist candidates won by only 16 votes, the anti-communist obtaining 141 and the opposition obtaining 125 votes.

4. In the Sindicato de Obreros y Empleados de Cruzeiras, S.A., the leadership is held by the Orléonzo, Emilio-MENÉN and Tenésities. Up until recently, these leaders were in harmony with the anti-communist CTC. However, they have recently permitted the entry of committees into their syndicate without requiring them to pay up their back dues. These leaders have also become friendly with the communist leader, Angel-Frutos, who is a member of the PSP Executive Committee of the Carro district, and two other committees, one an (fna)-TEGA and another who goes by the name “Trago-miquel”.

Comment: We have no traces on Angel TORRES. His name does not appear as a delegate to the Republics FSP Municipal Assembly from the Carro district.

These communists and the two Orléonzo leaders of the Cruzeiras Sindicato are often seen together in the Club Carrasco, which is opposite the Cruzeiras plant. At the present time, there is a good deal of labor unrest in this plant because the owners are attempting to reduce the labor force. Some of the workers are proposing that the syndicate join with the government CTC so that the latter body will take action and prevent them from losing their jobs. In answer to this, the Orléonzo leaders in the plant are saying that the Cruzeiras workers will have to solve this problem by themselves, as the government CTC is only the “tool of the employers and of FRIO who has sold out to the big industrialists.” The workers are tired, demoralized and discouraged and are saying, “And was this the reason the Communists were expelled from the CTC? It was a thousand times better under Lázaro FRAILESI.” A desire to join any group which might help them in their present plight—including the Communists—is now becoming stronger.
