2. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions: State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this rating period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of that specific duty. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty; do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only. Compare, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties; if so, rate them on different duties. Be specific.

Examples of duties that might be rated: oral briefing; has and uses area knowledge; conducts interrogations; giving lectures; develops new programs; prepares summaries; conducting seminars; analyzes industrial reports; translates German; writing technical reports; manages files; debriefing sources; conducting external liaison; operates radio; keeps books; typing; coordinates with other offices; drives truck; taking dictation; writes regulations; maintains air conditioning; supervising; prepares correspondence; evaluates significance of data.

Description of specific duty No. 1; description of specific duty No. 2; description of specific duty No. 3.

Rating scale: Incompetent in the performance of this duty. Barely adequate in the performance of this duty. Performs this duty acceptably. Performs this duty in a competent manner. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Obtaining the effective support of non-governmental sources and contacts in his area. Liaison with Federal and local agencies and officials in his area. Support of other elements of CIA in his area.

Specific duty No. 1: Management of domestic field office. Rating number: 6. Rating number: 6.

Specific duty No. 2: Analysis of assigned area for intelligence potential. Rating number: 6. Rating number: 4.

Specific duty No. 3: The planning and carrying out of effective intelligence collection. Rating number: 6. Rating number: 3.
