1. Preference for next assignment.  
2. Describe directly (DIGHTLY) the type of duty (DOG) you would prefer for next assignment if different from that indicated in item no. 3 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choice.

COS—WE or IA. Chief, Ops—at large station with diversified activities.

3. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking the appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next regular assignment by inserting 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour. Present tour ends 3 Oct. 1964 and home leave has been approved.

Extend tour ____ months at current station to ____ (date).

Be assigned to MATTING for a tour of duty. Indicate your choice of division, staff, or office: 1st choice WE; 2nd choice IA; 3rd choice EE.

Be assigned to another field station. Indicate choice of geographic area or specialization: 1st choice WE; 2nd choice IA; 3rd choice EE.

Return to my current station.

To be completed by field station.

17. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee (EMPLOYER) and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

Subject has done an outstanding job at this station during his four years in Madrid. I recommend that he be returned to this station following home leave in view of the high priority given to his present duties and responsibilities and the obvious fact that the important program which he is now heading up would suffer greatly if he were to be rotated, at this time, to another assignment. When he is eventually transferred from Madrid I feel strongly that he should be given a chief of station assignment within the Division in view of his consistently fine record, his experience, maturity, and devotion to duty. To be completed by appropriate headquarters office.

18. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee (EMPLOYER), his preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of your component, indicate your component's recommendation for his next assignment and training.

Mr. Williamson's desire for home leave and return to Madrid for another tour has been discussed with the Secretary, CSPO/A, and he has been advised by HP Division that this has been approved.

Date: 9 Oct. '64. Title: C/M/PT. Signature: H. L. Vickers.

For use by capturing service.

19. Approved assignment of:

C/WE, who obtained approval from SDP. CSPO was appointed on 1st. Names/Heirs, welcome. Has been notified. No delay on this FRG. Later by CSPO. To go. 10/18/64.
