1. Letter from Avraham J.H.S., Non-Jewish Youth Village, Near Ltd, Israel, dated 7 October 1959. The writer thanks Subject for his books and offers help in supplying material. Subject says that his “book about Israel.” JSRI describes his work among the children, adding that he will leave Israel during the summer of 1960 to complete his studies in the field of education for a year or two in either England or the United States.

2. Letter from the local department of Universal Pictures Company, Inc., Universal City, California, dated 12 October 1959 and signed by Joseph G. DUBIS, chief studio counsel. Enclosed with the letter is an assignment giving exclusive motion picture rights for Henry Co Round, a play written by Subject under the pseudonym of ArloOLT, and George SFM, to Universal Pictures. Since Subject is in Mexico, the writer requests that the enclosed assignment be acknowledged by Subject before a consular officer or notary of the American Embassy.

3. Another letter from Universal Pictures, dated 28 October 1959, encloses a second copy of the foregoing assignment, to be executed in New York.

4. Although Carillo (Mrs. Jean) PARIS, of 4 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts, writes on 13 October 1959 that she would be happy to translate one of Subject’s novels, she must first ascertain that a publisher wants it. She does not want to repeat the unfortunate experience of Pickle Bill, which she had translated into French only to find no one would produce it. The writer suggests that Subject send his “three books” to Miss Monique NATION, les Editions du Seuil, 27 rue Jacob, Paris 6, a house open to progressive ideas. Mrs. PARIS is planning a trip to Mexico “either in spring or later on.”

5. Personal letter dated 16 October 1959 from Alvah BISSIG, 6137 A Goody Boulevard, San Francisco 21, California.

6. Letter dated 13 October 1959 from Lawrence LYNTON, 3470 Cannon Place, New York 63, N.Y. The writer, an admirer of Subject’s books, was recently graduated from the Manhattan School of Art. He asks Subject to consider writing the libretto for an opera LYNTON plans to compose on Uncle Tom’s Cabin (onhole Tom’s cabin).
