Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 056361.

Section A—General.

Name: Hicks, Calvin W. Date of birth: 8 November 1924. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13 D.

Official position title: Watch Officer. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/FI/INT/IW.

Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Annual.

Date report due in O.P.: 31 January 1971.

Reporting period: 1 January–31 December 1970.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Duration note: DD10 (Reports Officer Activities) is the closest qualification code to describe Mr. Hicks' work as a Watch Officer. Specific duties are:

Specific duty No. 1—Prepares TD disseminations from cabled field information reports and releases them to the U.S. intelligence community, expediting delivery by electrical transmission when appropriate. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2—Releases JOHURRIED cables as dissemination to intelligence community, interpreting broad FI/D instructions on various categories of cables DISSENDED.
