Dispatch. To: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division. Processing action: Marsh for migration. Info: Chief, European Division; Chief of Station, JMWAVE. Processing action: Only qualified DEK (an judge indicing). From: Chief of Station, Madrid. Processing action: 3P. Subject: Operational/TYPIC/MHAPRON/QUTIMID/QUDOZE plans of new Cuban Ambassador in Madrid.

1. The new Cuban Ambassador to Spain, Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez, arrived in Madrid on the Iberia flight of 3 December 1967 accompanied by his wife, Nilda, and three sons. CALZADILLA, RUIZ's predecessor, had not been a strong administrator and had let the various components of the Cuban official establishment in Spain run their own affairs. This fact, plus the inevitable tendency of a new chief to be a “new broom” and rearrange things according to his own lights, led Station Madrid to expect some changes, particularly within the Embassy. However, the QUDOZE and QUTIMID operations have shown RUIZ, at least initially, to be an aggressive and well-organized individual with ideas of his own that clearly reflect his background in commercial affairs and prepared to make changes that promise to go beyond the superficial sweeping of a new broom. Underlying RUIZ's actions and proposals is the clear implication that he came to Madrid with the specific task of upgrading the Cuban mission in Spain both in terms of prestige and effectiveness. Station Madrid will transmit to the addressees the relevant information on this program as it becomes available from the QUDOZE and QUTIMID operations, along with information on the official Cuban personalities administering the program.

2. A striking difference between RUIZ and his predecessor was noted in the QUDOZE and QUTIMID reports of that first week. RUIZ has no inhibitions over spending money. One of the Embassy cars, a Peugeot, was replaced with a new model, and there was discussion of replacing the other two Peugeots with new ones. Nilda, RUIZ's wife, was picked up by the wife of GOVIN, who turned $200 over to her to go shopping at the Corte Inglesa, one of Madrid's two best.

Distribution: C/WH Division; C/EUR Division; COS, JMWAVE.

Cross reference to: Dispatch symbol and number: D.200-9-44; OSMA-23,406. Date: 12 January 1968. HOS file number: 200-120-61.
