Cuban Trading

18th November 1966

The Economic Research Bureau,  
United Revolutionaria,  
10 S.A., 9th Street,  
Miami, Fla., USA

On the 16th instant we wrote you about the Castro Delegation which arrived in Athens recently to conclude new chartering contracts. We can now report that the Delegation consisted of:

Mr. Hermandez (Hernandez), Chief General Manager of CURLET, Havana.  
Mr. Fornaguera, Chartering Department, Cuflet (CURLET), Havana.

These two gentlemen arrived here at the invitation and as guests of FRANGISTAS, with whom they remained during their Athens stay. Making of previous contracts was discussed, and new contracts were negotiated and concluded, both for cargoes to Cuba and sugar from Cuba, for not only next year but for longer periods, covering liberties and ships being built in Russia and to be built. All new ships are and will be under the Greek flag; older vessels are either Greek or Lebanese. After Athens they went to Moscow, where they covered that side of the business, and now they are in London, having further talks with Frangistas's London partners, PURVIS SHIPPING CO.

Mr. Fornaguera was, until early this year, the Manager of CURLET, London, for three years, and is now again in Havana's office. Both men are returning to Havana shortly.

When the Delegation asked Frangistas about the steps presently taken by the Greek Government in investigating ships which have been trading with Cuba since 1963, and the prohibition of further trading, Frangistas assured them they had nothing to worry about: the prohibition was a fake, as were the investigations and threatened punishment. He also reminded them that these investigations had taken place before, but all their cargoes were carried just the same, and numerous charters were fixed at various intervals by Frangistas through them, through Russia, and through many private charterers. He also assured them that whatever he did was done with the full knowledge of the Ministries, and particularly his special partners, high officials.

Most of the previous information in our reports, and the information contained in this report, was obtained directly and confidentially from Frangistas's own Athens office. If you or the USA Government have any wish to check up, it is very easy and simple. If you or the USA do not care to check now, then you will see the accuracy of the report as time goes on. We are more than certain you are satisfied that all our previous reports proved accurate and were substantiated. We have to confess that we are now beginning to believe that even you and USA authorities know all the facts and truth and neither do not care or cannot do anything about it. There is no other logical explanation. Except that the USA, who are fighting Communists and dictators in the name of democracy and freedom, are the same USA who are creating a dictator in the name of Frangistas, whom it is the USA who help create vast fleets (rumours have it that shortly Frangistas is going to Moscow to place further building contracts), at the expense of democratic Greek owners, who were compelled to either scrap and lay up their ships (many have done this) rather than go to Cuba, at the request of the USA.
