His ambition seems to shift from one thing to the other. You don't know exactly what he wants. When he started this magazine, obviously he wanted to play a role in Algeria and Africa. Driven out of Africa, he still thinks he's going to get back to Algeria within a relatively brief period of time, six months to a year. And he kept saying to us, “Oh, yes, we'll be back, we'll be back.” He's already prepared a list of people he's going to have thrown into jail, or shot, (laughing) or threatened with firing squads and so forth. That fell through.

And now, of course, I suppose it must be extremely bitter to him to see Bitat, who had been really his closest associate inside Algiers, and Zohardin, who had been his closest associate, with the exception of Léonina Coulibaly. But she doesn't have any real political weight. Bitat is back in Algiers, has made his peace with Ben Bella, and now represents—he's the general manager for Volkswagen (laughing), with the Algerian, in the sense.

Anderson's conversation about Verges was based just on Bitat. He said, “Well, Bitat is going back. Suppose Verges will be following behind.” He said, “No, he won't. We have a file on him,” concerning what he's done, with money in particular. Apparently, they claim that he had been dipping into the funds for years.

This is the Algerian claim. Yes, that's what they told Anderson.

The Federation of France.

I think it's probably true. The funds of the FLN—you see, he was, after all, a lawyer and then became the top lawyer of the FLN, the legal defense team, and this meant that he had access to enormous sums of money. The Algerian underground organization, even as well-structured a one as the Algerian, may not be able to maintain very accurate bookkeeping. There were all sorts of very funny jokes about how the money was handled, written on the corner of a newspaper for millions of old francs.

And so, under those circumstances, Verges himself has told some things about that.

As for his connection with Khider, Anderson thinks that Khider may have helped him to get money out of Algeria, but he doesn't think that he got anything after he left and Khider left Algeria. In other words, he said, as long as he was on the scene and formed part of this vague opposition to Ben Bella, which Khider sought to at least unite on a few issues around himself, he may have received some money. But afterwards, he doesn't think he received any. He has no proof, of course. If he did receive any, it would have been small sums given to Léonina Coulibaly as a token of friendship, more than anything else. That may have explained her trip to Geneva, when she did bring some money.
