Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

This employee is intelligent, loyal and dedicated to duty. She has an outstanding ability in getting her job assignments accomplished effectively and with a minimum of time and support. She readily accepts responsibility, is a highly efficient worker who thinks clearly and logically. Her knowledge of Headquarters and Field procedures plus her ability to organize her work greatly facilitates the smooth functioning of the Mexican Desk. She has demonstrated a superior comprehension of the numerous and varied projects of the Mexico City Station which has contributed to the overall Headquarters support of the Station's operations. Because of her sound understanding of operations and her outstanding capacity for work, Miss Zehrung has an excellent potential for assuming greater responsibilities. Additional training is dependent upon her future assignments.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

By Employee. Date: May 5. Signature of Employee: J. S. Brady.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 22 months.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Other (specify).

Date: 11 June 1959. Official title of supervisor: C/M/III/Mexico. Typed or printed name and signature: John J. Brady.

By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

Date: May 15. Signature of Reviewer: J. S. Brady. Official title of reviewing official: C/M/III. K. J. Daugherty.
