2.a A/17A/1 tells me that he is selling off some of the equipment which is not suitable for his current program of Community Development/Civic Action in Latin America in order to raise money to obtain equipment and materials that will be needed. For example, he has bought 22 acres of farm land near West Palm Beach to establish a model farm for training purposes. He has been conducting evening classes for several weeks for about 20 MRR men, who are working full time at other jobs, in rural Community Development. He has gotten some training materials and advice from Mr. George Lodge of Harvard, who, according to letters from him, appears to be enthusiastic about his contact with A/1 and his organization.

2.b AMBROT/1 told me that he is selling off some of the equipment which is not suitable for his current program of Community Development/Civic Action in Latin America in order to raise money to obtain equipment and materials that will be needed. For example, he has bought 22 acres of farm land near West Palm Beach to establish a model farm for training purposes. He has been conducting evening classes for several weeks for about 20 MRR men, who are working full time at other jobs, in rural Community Development. He has gotten some training materials and advice from Mr. George Lodge of Harvard, who, according to letters from him, appears to be enthusiastic about his contact with A/1 and his organization.

2.c A/1 says his only political plans at this time are to try to continue holding his movement (MRR) together while he changes its emphasis and direction toward the constructive activity of help in Community Development for friendly Latin American countries and away from the P.R. emphasis for which we supported him in the AWORLD program. The farm in Nicaragua to cultivate rice is a planned cooperative on the east coast (Bluefields - Monkey Point) to complement a shrimp fishing cooperative and boat yard at Bluefields which he has already discussed with President Schick, who requested him to go ahead. A/1 and the MRR part in these enterprises is purely advisory in training local residents and helping them to organize and build facilities. A/4 reports, and A/1 himself admits, that he is simply feeling around now trying to get all the information and ideas he can about this new field of endeavor. For example, A/1 just bought 300 baby chicks to work with in order to find out how they can best fit into a rural development program.

2.d Of course, AWORLD is finished and all members of the organization know it. A/1 and A/4 have both told me they have made it clear to all hands and have advised them to get jobs immediately in order to support their dependents. Most of them have done so, several going back to work for WAVE, for instance. The death of AWORLD and the reorganization necessary to go into a new phase (Community Development) is no doubt causing a crisis in the MRR, but both leaders believe the movement will weather the crisis and survive. Mr. Tom Clines, who talked with other members of the MRR, believes the same thing, and is certain it will survive with enough support from Washington to pay for publicity, travel, and administrative costs.

3.a There are 5 men at Monkey Point where one cache (a platoon) of weapons is stored. The other two are located at Bluefields and at Managua, under control of the Nicaraguan National Guard. The MRR delegate at Managua is the only person who can authorize their release, and this must be on written authority of A/1 and approved by General Somoza (Somozá). The 5 men at Monkey Point are simply station-keepers who, in addition to guarding the camp and weapons, are teaching the local Indians to read and write, to operate and maintain basic machinery, and to plant crops to raise their standard of living. There has been no evidence from any source of any attempts to sell AWORLD arms or ammunition.
