HUNGARY

January 26, 1953

“That agency was recently given a new chief, following the resignation of Gen. Bedell Smith (Pedell Smith), with the appointment a few days ago of Allen Dulles (Pullen), the brother of the new Secretary of State, the immediate director of the secret war against the USSR (USCH) and the People’s Democracies, the recruiting officer of the Red Army, Szeonyiu, Slanukya, and other traitors of the same brand.

“The central intelligence organization embraces several bodies active in spying and diversion and camouflaged with impressive names, the espionage organization known as the National Committee for a Free Europe being one of the many maintained with U.S. dollars and directing its own branch organizations all over Europe. That committee, too, has been headed by Allen Dulles (Pullen), and its members have included President Eisenhower, Gen. Clay, and representatives of the yellow trade unions and of Wall Street.

“That committee has been the motive force behind the various national committees, including the one led by ‘proven traitors like Ferenc Nagy (Négyi), Mikolajczyk, and their associates.’ In Strasbourg and other places espionage had been given a scientific standing at university, together with various methods of incendiarism and nonunionism. The ‘Green International’ is also one of the committee’s branches, allied to the gang of the International Union of landlords deprived of their estates.

“It is but a few months ago that the Czechoslovak State Security organization unmasked a terrorist group belonging to the International espionage organization. The outbursts of fury of the imperialist lie-manufacturers, their wailings, the assaults of rage coming from the bourgeois politicians, are proofs in themselves that the exposure of the undercover joint agencies, the recent liquidation of American spy and terrorist groups in Bulgaria and Poland, has touched the organizers of a new war to the quick.

“According to data not quite complete, in the past year alone 41 American spy groups and terrorist organizations have been liquidated in the USSR (USAR) and the People’s Democracies. We must be prepared for the time when the enemy, precisely because of the blow suffered by him, will try to harm us by even viler means.

“We must always remember Stalin’s wise words to the effect that so long as there is capitalism around us, there will be wreckers, diversionist spies, and terrorists sent by foreign countries to stab the Soviet Union in the back. Let us therefore fight with even greater vigilance, let us fight even more implacably against the enemy’s attempts to prevent, by sabotage and subversion, the building of socialism. The frustration of his plans depends upon us and upon our vigilance.”
