Cal had officially certified (by the Labor Office) permits of leave to solicit for the Passports for Foreigners.

25. They got the passports, and they traveled to Paris. David saw his mother there and spoke to her of his intention to go to Brazil. This was in 1942.

26. David and Pascal decided to go via Spain and Portugal. David bought a map, and they started. They crossed the border into Spain and got into trouble then, because nobody wanted to exchange their German money, and they could not even buy food. Thus, they decided to return to France.

27. When they were some 500 meters back in France, they were seen by the German customs guards. They were arrested, separated, and put into cells in a cellar. Fortunately, the wall between the two adjacent cells into which they were put was so thin that they could converse with each other.

28. David, afraid that Pascal could say something wrong when interrogated separately, advised him to say, when asked, that it was David who bought the map. And it really happened that Pascal was questioned first, and he, duly instructed by David, could give coordinated answers.

29. He, David, was brought to a lieutenant who made a thorough search, looked into his watch, and even into his rectum. However, the lieutenant was polite and friendly. David gave some explanation for being in this area—visiting somebody—whereupon the lieutenant said that the passport authorized David to travel up to Paris only.

30. They were ordered to return to Paris. One NCO was ordered to accompany them to the railroad station and to see that they really would depart for Paris. They went to the station. The NCO ordered tickets for them: Bayonne–Paris. At the same moment, the NCO was called away from the counter by a friend. David quickly used the opportunity and asked the clerk at the counter not to give them tickets to Paris, but instead to Fau, a station some 10 km from the border of the free, unoccupied part of France. The clerk objected at first, saying that the NCO ordered the tickets to Paris, but David quickly persuaded him “to help other Frenchmen against the Gestapo man.” He got the right tickets. The NCO returned, saw them off, but, of course, he did not know that David got the tickets to Fau, not to Paris.

31. They came to the border. A Frenchman advised them how to get over the border—everybody was ready to help them. They went, but soon got stuck in mud, and David lost one of his shoes. It was dark; he could not retrace his steps.
