DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

José Antonio Echeverría, con tus ideas en marcha.

1. In the student round, the National Union of Students of Brazil (UnB) (O. H. F.) has already experienced the labor the Union is accomplishing. At the National Assembly recently held by the Chamber, although the delegates were not permitted to speak, the support our movement has received among the Brazilian students was clearly displayed when several State Student Unions protested the measures taken against us. During a trip recently made to Latin America, he succeeded in attaining a resolution voted by that State Union and signed by 1,000 students, soliciting intervention in Cuba to remove the Russian troops which have recently landed on the island.

2. The delegation has already edited three pamphlets in Portuguese which have had great acceptance among the people: “Axé es Clau” (about the war), “Jaces para una Revolución Latinoamericana” (fundamental points for a Latin American revolution), and “Cuba Socialista” (Communist Cuba). Good relations are being maintained with the government of Carlos Lacerda (Carlos Escerda). Useful trips to Rome, Paris, and London have been made, and good contacts have been established.

P. Deficiencies

In general terms, the deficiencies of the delegation are very few, though a little irritation is apparent. The legal situation of Carlos Valdesso and his group in the country is rather difficult due to the fact that Joao de Souza's (João de Souza's) pro-Communist government has greatly obstructed their stay in Brazil. Nevertheless, the solution of this problem is shortly expected. As in Venezuela, the delegation protested because of the “surreal” attitude of the government when it was submitted. Since January nobody has visited them; this unduly delayed visit encourages them greatly and lifts their morale.

The delegation also complained about the lack of propaganda. For this purpose, they solicited funds in order to reprint in Portuguese the most important pamphlets, the “uns evitable.”

3. Future possibilities

It is important to point out that the Cuban Embassy in Brazil formally protested to the Brazilian government because of the presence of surrenderists in the country; other Communist Brazilian figures were also targeted by the protest. However, net activities for the future are planned. They are:

1. Continue editing pamphlets of guidance for the people.
