Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It should provide:

1. The organization Selection Board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff.
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions to the Field Administrative or Personnel Officer: Conduct current field administrative instructions regarding the institution and transmission of this report to Headquarters.

To the Field Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his departmental activities. Assignments indicated shall be under your supervision for the period shown. You will be responsible for reporting to your previous supervisor the conclusion of each assignment and complete.

If the item above is not complete, it must be stated why. If you are having difficulty, please contact your Supervisor. Be sure to list all assignments having been performed throughout the period.

This individual has been assigned to Supervision, and you have direct supervision of all employees of the unit. Please make a general evaluation of this employee. Make recommendations for his review, if appropriate. Recommendations of MIA mean that in a general way he stands where he stands.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is shown to the person being rated.

Section I.

Leave blank. For Headquarters use only.

Williamson, Earl J. Date of death: 13 March 1915. SLA: M. Service designation: KUFORE SD-F1. Grade: GS-13. Station designation (current): Intelligence Officer - KUFORE. Due date of this report: 30 September 1954. Period covered by this report: 17 June–30 September 1954.

Section II. To be completed by field supervisor.

Current position: Intelligence Officer - KUFORE 6/03/55-11. Period of temporary assignment to position: 14 February 1955–19 January 1956, BAF-N6.

State the specific assignments or tasks which are typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months, listed in order of frequency:

A. Liaison with Servicio de Inteligencia Militar and Buro de Investigaciones.
B. Contacts and development of operational assets.
C. Handling agents.
D. Reporting.

Section III. To be completed at Headquarters only.

Do not complete. For Headquarters use only.

Authentication of Report and Signatures.

1. Name of rater (true): Robert E. Whedbee.
2. Name of reviewing official in field (true): William B. Caldwell.
3. This report was [X
