(AMERICAN EMBASSY SECTION — January 1960–January 1962)

Promotion and Transfer to the Seventh Department (January 1962)

Nosenko stated that his return to the Seventh Department resulted from Gribanov's wish to promote him from Deputy Chief of the Embassy Section to Deputy Chief of the whole American Department. However, according to Nosenko, the new American Department Chief, Fedoseyev, wanted as his deputy Kovshuk, Nosenko's superior. Under the circumstances, Nosenko said he preferred to be transferred back to the Seventh Department, in any capacity. Nosenko reported that he spoke to Seventh Department Chief V.D. Chelnokov, and the latter proposed that Nosenko ask Gribanov to be returned to the Seventh Department as chief of the American Section, with the understanding that he would be appointed Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department as soon as the incumbent deputy, [B.A.] Baldin, retired in July 1962. Nosenko asserted his proposal was made and approved by Gribanov in September or October 1961. Gribanov, according to Nosenko, never indicated his reasons for planning to appoint him Deputy Chief of the American Department or for later promoting him to Section Chief and then Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department in 1962.

In view of his impending transfer, starting in December 1961 Nosenko said he spent several hours each day in the Seventh Department. There he stated he talked with Department Chief Chelnokov, familiarized himself with certain files of the American Tourist Section, and discussed current operations and operational possibilities with the officers assigned to this section. Nosenko said the formal order for the transfer was signed by Gribanov on 24 or 25 December 1961, and within the next few days Nosenko officially signed over the Abidian case file and the Embassy security file to his successor as Deputy Chief of the Embassy Section, Gryaznov. As he had when he transferred into the American Department in 1960, Nosenko said he took his active agents with him when he returned to the Seventh Department.
