Declaration of Appointee

This form is to be completed before entrance on duty. Question 3 is to be answered in all cases; otherwise answer only those questions which require an answer different from that given to the corresponding questions on your application form. If no answers are different, write “NONE” in Item 10 below. Any false statement in this declaration will be grounds for cancellation of application or dismissal after appointment. Impersonation is a criminal offense and will be prosecuted accordingly.

Instructions to Appointing Officer

The appointing officer before whom the foregoing certificate is made shall determine to be such person as would be appropriate with the Civil Service Act, applicable Civil Service Rules and Regulations, and acts of Congress pertinent to appointment.

This form shows how to check for holding of office, pension, suitability in connection with any record of recent discharge or arrest, and particularly for the following:

(1) Identity of assurant — The appointee’s signature and handwriting are to be compared with the application and other pertinent papers. The physical appearance may be checked against the medical certificate. The appointee may also be questioned on his personal history for agreement with his previous statements.

(2) Age — If applicant age has been established for the position, it should be determined that applicant is not outside the age range for appointment. Civil such determination is made, the appointment may not be consummated.

(3) Citizenship — The appointing officer is responsible for observing the citizenship provisions of (1) the Civil Service Act, Rules and (2) appropriation acts. Form of constitution is immaterial for both purposes and is acceptable proof of citizenship status in the absence of conflicting evidence. In doubtful cases the appointment should not be consummated until clearance has been secured from the certifying office of the Civil Service Commission.

(4) Members of Family — Section 9 of the Civil Service Act provides that whenever there are already two or more members of a family serving under probational or permanent appointment in the competitive service, no other member of such family is eligible for probational or permanent appointment in the competitive service. The appointments of persons entitled to veteran preference are not subject to this requirement. The members-of-family provisions do not apply to temporary appointments. Doubtful cases may be referred to the appropriate office of the Civil Service Commission for decision.
