Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance. Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is the finest all-around ops officer I have ever known. Primarily he is a man of action who knows what has to be done, and goes about doing it. He is a tireless, dedicated worker who puts duty before any personal considerations. He has imagination coupled with good common sense and sound operational judgment. He is steady and cool during emergency situations. He has worked under constant strain and pressure over periods of several months without cracking or losing his sense of humor. He has strong leadership qualities, inspires confidence and loyalty in those he works for and with. He is especially effective in getting the most out of indigenous agents. He has exhibited great personal courage. He was respected by the Embassy officers and representatives of other agencies with whom he was in contact. He speaks Spanish fluently and is thoroughly conversant with Latin psychology. His operational and intelligence reporting, though not always polished products, are complete and lucid. He has a great capacity for work. He has the potential for assuming greater responsibility and for advancement in the Agency.

During the period under review Subject was in charge of PM activities at the Havana Station, and his performance of duties during this critical, tense period was outstanding.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report. Date: 5 May 1961. Signature of employee: Jared H. Noell.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 24 months. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation. Date: 5 May 1961. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: Jamal A. Noell.

3. By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee another evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. I cannot base these evaluations on the presence of a personality which is inconsistent with the employee's performance. Comments of reviewing official. Date: 1 June 61. Official title of reviewing official: C/OPS/WHD. Typed or printed name and signature: Jacob S. Estelar.
