Fitness Report.

Section A: General Information.

Employee number: 012170. Name: Randall, Frederick C. Date of birth: 10/28/26. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. Job: D. Official position title: Ops Officer. Office/division/room of assignment: DDO/FRD/Br. I. Current station: Headquarters. Type of appointment: Career; reassignment special. Reporting period: 1 November 1972–15 June 1973. Date report due in O.P.: Supervisor.

Section B: Qualifications Update.

If qualifications update form is being submitted with changes and is attached to this report, place the word “Yes” in the box to the right. If no changes are required, place the word “No” in the box at right.

Section C: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section D.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section D and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Provides primary direction and support to the San Francisco and Los Angeles Bases on the running of clandestine operations in their geographic areas. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Provides guidance and support to the San Francisco and Los Angeles Bases on the management of their Bases. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Maintains continuing relations with all elements of the Directorate of Operations necessary to support and direct.
