J. J. Deakin, Esq.

IACOLAR agent is a humanoral, and that 1935 funds were given to someone in fraud to pay out a third party loan dealer. The investigation of JONES I by DILLARS Internal Affairs did reveal, according to JOES A., that THSIS thousand could not be accounted for by JONES I. These earlier appear to have been unoffended by the investigation. JOES U., who obviously has a counter statement in JOE LARK, also told JONE A. about many of the individuals, by name, in DILLARS who are formerly BEKIERALD employees.

JOES U.'s information appears to be accurate, according to JOEN A., who recalls receiving a telephone call from JONES I in July 1973. JOES C. was initiated, and asked JOEN A. to handle a matter for him quickly and quietly. He said his wife, children, and the business agent of JONES T. were in Key West, and were supposed to stay in the apartment of a retired BEKIERALD employee named JOES F., formerly with JONES A. JOES F., a friend of JOES F., had left the area and gave his apartment key to JOEN I. When JOES C.'s wife and the others arrived in Key West, they could not locate JOES F. to get the key. JOES C. asked JOES A. to find out what they were doing, “and just how far my reach is stoked out.” But A. realized they had cycled into a local match. He called RIGGS C. on the phone. This information. JOES C. was relieved, but asked JOES A. to keep an eye on them and report their movements to him. Subsequently, while on a trip to Mexico, JOES A. was approached by an IMCOLLAR officer in International Affairs. This individual said the episode was under active investigation, and needed just A. what he knew about it.

Finally, JOEN A. is giving BEKIERALD an opportunity to pursue whatever advice, guidance, and assistance it may require before he takes further action to obtain legal counsel from DILLARS. He is thinking in terms of pure personal intervention on his behalf with IMCOLLAR. He recognizes that he may fail to let him know for himself. In that event, he plans to approach both JPB in New York to reveal the above story, and seek JOEN's approval in principle. IMCOLLAR for financial relief. He will not take any action with JOES A. until he has heard from BEKIERALD. Since he is aware of JPB and on this matter, a speedy reply to his request for assistance will be appreciated.

JOEN A., incidentally, has offered to reimburse JPB, and was considering a job as chief investigator for a final private inquiry. We indicated a reply would be forthcoming first, and if no answer, we would go to JOEN A. His phone number is 100th A. For details of JOES A.

G.G. & H.J. Deakin

Separate files attached to these.

Gilliam.
