Field Reassignment Questionnaire.

Authentication of signatures and verification of items 1 through 7 below.

Name of employee: 9/15/55. Name and signature of official at headquarters authorized to authenticate signatures and verify data: John Baker; Andrew L. Pusby. Date: 6/30/60.

To be completed by employee.

1. Date of birth: 20 January 1924.  
2. Grade: GS-14.  
3. Current position title: Operations Officer.  
4. Service designation: DI.  
5. Current station or field base: Tokyo, Japan.  
7. Expected date of departure: 15 June 1960.

Other duty stations or field bases during current tour: Chief of major external geographic branch (USSN-European Satellites) of large overseas station (Tokyo). As such, responsible to station deputy for operations.

Direct, manage, supervise and train 25 persons, including operations and project personnel under non-official cover, under State, Army, and Air Force cover. Personnel are divided functionally within FI, PP, and CI sections.

Initiate and launch new FI, PP, and CI operations using best available independent assets as well as assets available through foreign (Japanese) liaison. Manage and exploit personnel operations; observe progress or deterioration of activities to ensure that marginal and nonproductive activities are terminated. Act as a case officer on my own operations, too.

Maintain liaison with other U.S. agencies. Provide operational support to other Far East stations permanently specialized as U.S. East European operations; engineer and develop.

Preference for next assignment.

A. Write a brief description of the type of work you would prefer for your next assignment if it differs from that indicated in item 8 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choices.

I would like a challenging assignment overseas, again, as my first preference. I am especially interested in developing across-the-board FI-PP-CI programs “Iron Scratch,” with particular reference to building up long-term FI-CI programs and assets. I am not unduly particular as to area, but at least would prefer an area in which English or French is the langue frangé.

My next choice would be to go to an area whose language I do not know but could learn, and which meets the requirements of the challenge stated in the first paragraph above.

My next choice would be to return to Japan, where I could use my Japanese knowledge.

My next choice would be an assignment to a special training course at the national intelligence level.

My last choice would be reassignment directly to headquarters.

I would especially enjoy an assignment in which I can combine on-the-job training of other personnel’s skills with the direction and management of their operational displays.

B. Indicate what training you believe you should have in order to increase your value to the organization:

Clandestine Services Methods. State Senior Officers’ Course. Appropriate additional language training. Outside advanced graduate work in international relations.
