Recruiting officer. I remained there for three months, devoting most of my time to the Student Officer Procurement program in the various Texas colleges.

In December 1943, the Marine Corps, which had, prior to that time, been an exclusively volunteer organization, was placed under the Selective Service System, and Marine Corps Headquarters decided to follow the lead of the Navy and appoint a Marine officer as liaison (lidion) to each state Selective Service Headquarters. I was one of those appointed and was ordered to Raleigh, N.C., on 12 January 1943.

The post at Raleigh was one of some experience because of the large Marine Corps bases at New River, Cherry Point, and Johnston, at which over one hundred thousand Marines were in training, and at which construction and maintenance programs involving several hundred millions of dollars were in operation. It was my duty to supervise the induction of all North Carolina selectees who were assigned to the Marine Corps through the Selective Service System, and to represent the various Marine Corps installations in their dealings and disputes with local draft boards concerning the deferment of about five thousand civilian employees.

In addition, I took an active part in the administration of the Selective Service Headquarters in Raleigh and throughout the state, interviewing registrants, their employers, and dependents, advising local and state boards, setting up replacement schedules for various industries, and passing on the merits of about eleven thousand appeals.

The work was interesting and productive, and living in Raleigh was certainly “good duty,” but I had never lost my desire for overseas duty and made two attempts to transfer to Aviation, both of which were unsuccessful. Then, in September 1944, I heard that Marine Divisions overseas were badly in need of legal officers, and I immediately applied for transfer. I was ordered to headquarters for induction, and, after a year of duty in the office of the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, I was sent to Corp.وجunc in February 1945 for further training. In April 1945 I sailed from San Francisco, and in May I joined the Fourth Marine Division, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific, at Maui (Vau), as Division legal officer. I continued in that post until the war ended and I procured a transfer to the inactive list.

A Marine Division consists of approximately 10,000 (10,NC) men. The Division legal officer is directly responsible to the Commanding General for the administration of military justice throughout the command, and supervises the work and findings of all General, Summary and Special Courts (General, Civilry and Court Courts), as well as those of all Boards of Investigation and Courts of Inquiry. He advises the Commanding General on the action to be taken as Convening Authority or Immediate Superior in Command. In addition, he advises the Commanding General and Chief of Staff on all legal matters arising out of contact with natives, with civilian and military authorities, and with the owners of training areas.
