Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 055495.

Section A—General.

1. Name: Shaw, Robert T. Date of birth: 18 June 1925. Sex: M. Grade: GS-14. SD: D.

Official position title: Operations Officer. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/WH/1. Current station: Mexico City.

Type of appointment: Career provisional. Type of report: Annual.

Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1966. Reporting period: 1 April 1965–30 April 1966.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise. Indicate the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty no. 1: Manage Station PBRUMEN Operations Section. Supervise three other staff personnel, including one GS-14, inside, and one GS-16 staff agent and contract personnel outside. Assign work responsibilities, provide operational guidance, review intelligence production and reporting, evaluate performances, etc.

Agent handling and exploitation. Manage agents and other operational assets working against the PBRUMEN target, with particular attention to full exploitation of such assets.
