Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made for employee improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, this potential for development and suggest ways for greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Hicks has done a superior job in the performance of his duties, demonstrating unusually good judgment and having an excellent basic understanding of covert operations. During the period of this report, he has been able to utilize this knowledge in a real situation and has personally profited greatly from the process, as well as making a fine contribution to the operation in a denied area. It is felt he is now ready to assume greater responsibilities in the Clandestine Services. Mr. Hicks worked long and irregular hours without complaint.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 12 May 1961. Signature of Employee: Calvin H. Nick.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: Seven months. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days.

Other (Specify):

Date: 10 May 1961. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief, WH/4/PM/Ops. Typed or printed name as shown in report: W. Kuzmuk.

3. By Reviewing Official.

I would have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I would have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I would have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of reviewing official.

Date: 12 May 1961. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, WH/4/PM/Ops. Typed or printed name as shown in report: James S. Pekich.
