Report on Contact with Agent or Defector

Subject: WIRGUSE  
Date: 15 August 1962  
Time: 1100  
Place: Ostendstr. 1, Apt. 9

Crue K. Daronnat, Case Officer

Comments: CO picked up Subject and took him to lunch in the country near Neu Isenburg. Subject has been extremely edgy lately, and it was felt by CO that a relaxing meal and two or three hours’ conversation might have a salubrious effect.

CO mentioned to Subject that if he were interested, we might be able to find a radio or something along that line for him to build. Subject was very enthusiastic and suggested that we get started soonest.

Subject was dropped off at his apartment, and CO promised to come by as soon as he could find something to occupy Subject’s time.

Subject was told that Hqtrs had suggested Argentina (Argentine) for resettlement because they had no quota restrictions and were in need of technicians. Subject said that Argentina was out of the question since he had acquaintances there who would be happy to stir up any kind of trouble they possibly could.

Subject suggests that he go to SA on a tourist visa. According to him, it would be much easier after his arrival to apply for immigration since he already would be there. This reason is quite valid and sensible, but CO knows that Subject has two quite different reasons for making this suggestion: 1. With a tourist visa, he has visions of having us finance him from country to country until he finds exactly what pleases him; and 2. He figures that with a tourist visa he can return to Europe without having committed himself irrevocably to immigration status, with all its attendant responsibilities for settling the visa case.

It is also obvious to CO that we cannot trust Subject to make inquiries himself at the various SA Consulates because he will tell us only those details which he wants us to know, and unfortunately we have no way of checking since the Consulates will not give out information regarding immigration over the phone.

When the time comes, CO feels that we may be able to get the information we need by working through AFRF.
