Agent Evaluation

Name: QRPHONE/1

Date: 18 January 1971

Project: QRPHONE

Status: Contract Agent (Under a Memorandum of Oral Agreement).

Overt Job Description: International correspondent for “Sunday supplement” type color magazine distributed by twenty major newspapers in the U.S. Also represents owner of this color magazine in other of his business ventures in Europe. This overt job was assumed in December 1970. Prior to that, Q/1 was the London representative of small U.S. news service. Q/1 does freelance journalism and is an occasional contributor to several magazines and newspapers.

Covert Job Description: Singleton agent targeted at the radical left, including Maoist, African liberation, and Palestinian groups. Q/1's access derives from his many contacts in these circles.

Performance of Covert Duties: Q/1 continues to perform well and without posing problems for his handler. His personality is easy-going and his attitude positive. If his efforts are not always totally successful—leaving us with tantalizing bits of information and many unanswered questions—this is generally due to operational circumstances in which he was simply unable to elicit more information on a given subject.

Performance of Overt Duties: Q/1 does a solid and workmanlike job as a journalist. He has acquitted himself well both as a representative of his cover firm and in his freelance activity. Occasional prompting on this subject produces added effort and in this connection the operation profits particularly from the energy and knowledge of the deep-cover agent handler who himself has faced similar cover demands over many years.

Attitude Toward JKLANCE: QRPHONE/1's attitude is positive. (See below under Motivation.)

Attitude Toward Cover Employer: Q/1's attitude is good. He has made an effort to discharge his part of the cover arrangement and to understand the weaknesses and problems which plagued his former cover organization. He is approaching his new cover arrangement with enthusiasm.

Motivation in Accepting JKLANCE Relationship: This is a subject on which a good deal has been said over the course of this operation. The following points can be made on the subject of Q/1's motivation:

A. His basic image of JKLANCE is positive.
