Directorate of Dissemination.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espenagoe Law, Title 16, U.S.C. Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or retention of which is in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

This is an information report, not finally evaluated intelligence.

Report No. CSDB-312/03010-69. Date distributed: 17 December 1969. Country: Cuba, Spain. Date of information: late September 1969. Subject: Cuban-Spanish Commercial Relations. Place and date acquired: Spain, Madrid, early October 1969. Field No. OSM 9815. Source: An official Spanish service from a source described as sensitive and usually reliable.

1. On 23 September 1969 the Cuban Minister to Spain, Guillermo Ruiz Perez, called on Pedro Salvador de Vicente, the Special Delegate for Latin American Affairs in the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to discuss the forthcoming trade negotiations in Cuba. During the discussion Salvador told Ruiz that the one and only question which concerns the Spanish Government is that of Cuban indemnifications and pensions for Spanish employees, and he asked Ruiz what the latter could say regarding this problem. (Field Comment: The indemnifications refer to property owned by Spanish nationals which was confiscated by the Cuban Government.) Ruiz claimed that he had no instructions on what he could say, adding that the claims were numerous and that the paperwork involved was difficult and required a great deal of time.

2. Salvador told Ruiz that the subject of indemnifications and pensions must be discussed during the forthcoming negotiations, and that the Cuban Government must provide at least an approximate figure of what it is going to pay. He said that the indemnification figure must be based on the value of the expropriated properties, less the amount of any taxes levied on the properties. (Source Comment: Salvador did not say what would happen if the Cuban Government failed to reach some agreement on the question but he implied that negotiations would be delayed until the Spanish Foreign Ministry received the Cuban Government's reply to this question.) (Field Comment: Since the conversation between Salvador and Ruiz was held before the recent change of the Spanish Cabinet and other Government positions, there is no

OSM-9817. QUSEQUIN (OUDOZE). CSDB-312/03010-69.
