Memorandum for: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans  
Subject: Project LIFECAT (Renewal)  
WH—Mexico City

1. The attached project, originating in WH Division, is presented for renewal for the period 1 July 1963 through 30 June 1964. The project supports a unilateral telephone tap operation which provides daily information on the activities of official foreign installations in Mexico City and personnel thereof, as well as coverage of the activities of selected individuals and groups.

2. Authority is requested to eliminate $30,000 from the DD/P-WH Division budget in fiscal year 1963, subject to the availability of funds. Of this amount, $15,000 is estimated for administrative salaries; $4,411 for field agent salaries; $26,928 for basehouse rentals; $5,000 for equipment; $2,100 for local transportation; and $500 for miscellaneous operational expenses.

3. The Field Project Outline and review, which are forwarded by the Division with a covering memorandum, give a clear description of the project activity and accomplishments. The project has been in continuous operation since 1957, starting with a single tap against the Soviet station in Mexico City and now covering as many as thirty lines in a eleven month. The project is staffed by an “outside” case officer (Career Agent David M. Winstad (p) of Project LING), four contract agents who do administrative work, and twenty-one field agents including monitors and linesmen. During the past year the project provided coverage of the home phones of three Soviet Intelligence officers, the Polish Embassy, the Vysovsky Palace, major firms headquarters, in the transshipment of U.S. goods to East, American Communists in Mexico, and exile and revolutionary leaders in Mexico. CI information was obtained and additional security was provided Station operations. Although coverage of the official Soviet and Czech installations became a joint operation with the Mexican Government in LIEBOVY, Project LIFECAT remains available to resume coverage of these installations should a change in the local government or its attitude to CIA participation necessitate such change.
