Student News Sheet

Guatemala University Students Start a “Literacy Drive”

The Association of University Students of Guatemala has pledged itself to undertake an alphabetization campaign on a national scale. It is expected that a good number of students from the two universities in the country will cooperate in this effort to reach the illiterate.

Chile: The Federation of Students of the Catholic University (FEUC) held its Sixth Ordinary Convention of Students from September 30 to October 3. Among the topics discussed were “The Idea of a University,” “The Nature and the Problems of Today’s University,” and “The Development and Actual Position of Latin American Universities.” These discussions culminated in a series of proposals which open the way for effective, modern university reform. The basic documentation has been condensed in book form under the title “The University, Our Task.” This book, edited by the Federation, is unique in its kind in Latin America.

One Hundred Panamanian Students to Moscow

According to Cesar Brugatti, a student at Moscow’s Patrice Lumumba University and president of the Association of Panamanian Students in that capital, there are thirty young men from Panama studying there, but the number will soon be raised to one hundred. These students go to Moscow by way of Mexico, Haiti, and Prague.

In Prospect: An Union of Central American University Students

Student leaders from the universities of Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador, and Panama are working—both locally and collectively—on plans to establish a union of Central American university students. Although the idea is not a new one, it seems to have found a particularly favorable atmosphere at this time, and it is highly probable that it will be carried out to completion.

The Program of Popular Cooperation: A Source of Discord in Peru

The opposition parties in Peru, while accepting as necessary the Popular Cooperation Program—technical assistance for communal projects promulgated by President Baraunde (Belaúnde) and backed in major part by the students—are opposed to the centralization of its control entirely into the hands of the President.

The opposition coalition, headed by the APRA, asks that the Program be “municipalized”; that is, that each locality receive the necessary funds and administer them as it deems convenient. The APRA alleges that this would prevent communist infiltration into the program.

To Visit East Germany, One Prerequisite: Age

In East Germany, elderly people are allowed to visit their relatives in West Germany, but young people are not permitted to make the trip. The excuse given by the government: “It is more likely that repressive measures will be taken in the West against the young.” Then it adds, somewhat in the manner of a patch: “No one must think we do not trust our youth...”

A “New Road” for the Catholic University of Chile

In a recent meeting, the students of the Catholic University analyzed “the necessity of adapting their studies and the University to the social demands of today’s world.”

Among the decisions approved was that the University act “with greater independence with regard to the ecclesiastical hierarchy,” upon impressing that institution with “the renovation spirit of the Church of John XXIII and Paul VI contained in the present Ecumenical Council.”

Juanin Pereira Varela

Men who have attained a true understanding of the reason for their existence cannot be satisfied with mere subsistence. Their lives find meaning only in service. Service to God and to man. These words embody, to a large extent, the greatness of those men whom history has claimed for itself and whom humanity holds in admiration for the fruitful results of their endeavors. Their eagerness to serve led them to achieve for their fellows new horizons of material comfort, intellectual satisfaction, and spiritual attainment. These same words are perhaps also the only ones which could make youths throughout the world visualize the profound meaning of the sacrifice of hundreds of Cuban students and, in particular, of Juanin Pereira Varela.

His life contemplated no ideal but to serve: to serve God, to serve his land, to serve his countrymen by giving them an opportunity to live in a free and just land. His life, from the moment the establishment of a dictatorial government in Cuba became an unquestionable reality, was dedicated to battle and to toil. From the ranks of the D.R.E., he struggled against the evil that had reduced to angry impotence the longings for permanent peace and freedom in the hearts of our people. He fought the enemy that impeded the establishment of a Christian system and drowned the joy in the hearts of his countrymen. He toiled to ascertain that in the future that system, that joy, and that justice could exist.

His would not be the joy, however, of seeing his labors bear fruit. It was his lot to die and by his death achieve what his hands could not.

His blood would reaw
