Obtained a good deal of useful information on these persons, their philosophies, plans, etc., as well as information of a derogatory nature on Fidel Castro (which was later exploited in the propaganda field). Subject also provided several operational leads and suggestions upon his return from Cuba. During this assignment, Subject traveled as a tourist, but at the same time, in order to give him added stature for conversations, stated that he represented American businessmen and investors who were anxious to assess legal recourses re revolutionary laws and to determine the possibilities for future development and investments. WH was very impressed with Subject's ability and operational maneuverability.

2. From 23 February–3 March 1961 Subject was in El Salvador again at the suggestion of CA Staff and with the approval of WHD and the Station. Again, Subject's mission was to provide an overall estimate of the fluid political situation. While in that area, he made numerous political and social contacts of operational interest and subsequently made a number of operational suggestions during his debriefing at Headquarters. Subject's cover for this mission was tourist travel. Headquarters, the Station, and the U.S. Ambassador in El Salvador were all extremely impressed by Subject's ability to assess the local political situation and to make the necessary contacts with a minimum of Station assistance. (Detailed reports on both of these missions are available in CA/PAG files.)

Current Status and Future Operational Potential:

Subject brought his family from California to Washington, D.C., where he is expecting to receive a political appointment, probably in the field of Latin American affairs. He has suggested that, if possible, he would like to be operationally active for KUBARK at the same time. Since he will undoubtedly be assigned to Latin America (possibly Mexico), and will have some freedom of action, he feels he could perform worthwhile clandestine services throughout the Latin American area. We agree. CA/PAG is, therefore, arranging meetings for Subject with WHD and IOD, both of whom have expressed an interest in this possibility. (More details will be forthcoming on this.)
