Dominican Republic

FCD (FCB) Attacks Political Leader in Report

Santo Domingo (Santa Domingo) and the Clarin Network in Spanish, 1700 GMT, 9 April 1976.

The Dominican Communist Party (FCD) today asserted that if Julián Pares became president, he would persecute FCD members. The FCD Political Committee, in a press statement said to Radio Clarin, indicated that Julián Pares had transferred and postponed his anti-communist offensive. The former chairman of the National Development Commission had asserted that he would disclose the name of each member of the Communist Party who held positions with the government.

The FCD added in its statement that Julián Pares might state that he never said it. In fact, he contradicts himself, retorts, and is evading a political confrontation in which he can only lose. The FCD also pointed out that his statement was nothing but a gross lie.

Membership in Sugar Producers Union Opposed

Santo Domingo (Santa Domingo) Radio Clarin Network in Spanish, 2200 GMT, 9 April 1976.

We have insistently said that belonging to the famous Union of Latin American Sugar Producers—to which the Philippines has been added—is neither useful nor beneficial to the Dominican Republic because there is a notable difference between producing and exporting countries and in their respective interests.

We have also criticized the series of limitations imposed on the Dominican Republic by virtue of meetings held and commitments acquired. Those limitations and commitments are made in exchange for nothing because a country that produces sugar but does not export it has nothing to lose in agreeing to limitations on its free right to negotiate, to sell, and so forth.

Right now the Philippines has acquired a contract on sugar sales for a five-year period with a U.S. refinery amounting to 650,000 tons annually. Did the Dominican Republic know anything about this? Or did it learn about it, as we did, from international news dispatches? What prior consultations were made? How does this agree with the famous meetings and agreements of Cozumel (Cosumel), Puerto Plata, Lima, and Cali?

It is not that we believe the deal with the Philippines will have any effect on the price of sugar or the market; however, we take the opportunity to stress this example and make known the reason we have had and have to criticize the Dominican Republic’s entry into an international group from which we will get no benefits.

Authorities Deny Arrival of Anti-Castro (Anti-Gastro) Leader

Santo Domingo (Santa Domingo) Radio Clarin Network in Spanish, 2200 GMT, 30 March 1976.

It is not true that anti-Castro exile Orlando Bosch is in the Dominican Republic, Immigration Director General Commodore (Ret.) Enrique Rafael Valdez Vidaurre declared today. He added that a report to the effect that Dr. Bosch had been expelled from Costa Rica to our country was journalistic fabrication. The report had been made in San José, Costa Rica, last night by a spokesman for the government of President Daniel Oduber (Ouber).

The Foreign Relations Secretariat, today also pointed out that it had no knowledge that Bosch had been expelled to our country on orders of the Costa Rican Supreme Court after many countries consulted by the government of that Central American country refused to admit the anti-Castro exiles.

FBIS, OKG 67 (LA), 6 April 1976
