Dispatch. To: Chief of Station, JMWAVE. Processing action: Dated for invoice. Re: Chief, European Division; Deputy Chief, EIC. No invoice required; only qualified use. From: Chief of Station, Madrid. Can be used invoice.

Subject: KEYWAY/PBRUMEN/MHVIPER — AMSCROLL articles for republication.

Action required references. Act: For your information. Ref: UPGA-25559, 21 July 1966.

1. Madrid Station appreciates the excellent support which JMWAVE Station has provided in referenced operation. It may be of interest that the publication of the articles cited in reference cost approximately $200.00.

2. Through QUSPOT-2 Madrid Station made contact with Identity in an effort to establish an outlet for the publication of economic reports concerning Spain and PBRUMEN. It was agreed with the directors of Identity that the articles would be paid for at the same rate as paid advertisements; however, they would appear as exclusive reports of Identity and bear no resemblance to a paid advertisement. Because of various legal ramifications, Identity agreed to publish only those articles which were signed.

3. QUSPOT-2's approach to Identity was made ostensibly under the auspices of a PBRUMEN exile group with whom he said he was affiliated, the headquarters of which are ostensibly in the JMWAVE area. It was agreed that the JMWAVE exile group would furnish the material directly to Identity, with a copy to QUSPOT-2, who, after receipt of the article, would then approach the directors of Identity to ascertain the price of the article and push for its publication. In this regard Madrid would appreciate continuing with this practice for the mailing of articles intended for publication, with a copy pouched to Madrid, as was established.

Attachment: Under separate cover. Identity. S/O ATT'D BY RI/AM. Distribution: Dated 8-8-66. 2-COS, JMWAVE, with attachment, USC OK. 1-LC/WH/C, with attachment, USC.

Cross-reference dispatch symbol and number: OSMA-21648. Date: 10 August 1966. Cross-reference: PAC. MCS file number: 19-120-26/3.
