Section A. Name: Maksymiec, Myronlaw A. Date of birth: 30 April 1917. Grade: GS-09. Office/division/area of assignment: D and E Tech. Type of appointment: Career provisional. Initial annual. Reporting period: 31 March 1966–30 September 1966.

General. Employee serial number: 035655. Type of report: Special (specify); reassignment supervisor; reassignment employee. Date report due in O.P.: 31 October 1966.

Section S Performance Evaluation.

W—Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A—Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P—Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S—Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific duty No. 1: Assists senior branch members on their projects, carrying out photographic processing, providing assistance and consultation on the practical application of photography. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 2: Carries out experimental laboratory investigations related to the photographic process, develops techniques, and constructs supporting equipment. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: As senior photographic technician, has responsibility for maintenance of all photographic equipment and aids in the selection of new equipment. Helps in the procurement of photographic supplies. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 4: Instructs others in photographic laboratory practice, camera operation, and maintenance. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 5: Photographs special equipment and experimental laboratory setups. Prepares prints for display and report purposes. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 6. Rating letter: S.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position, such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on the job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of the employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance. Rating letter: S.
