Continuation of Dispatch.

ACLU-192.

c. Documentation prepared with accompanying cover story to show that WIROGUE/1 is an Austrian and who has never had ODYONEE connections, nor ever been in FBRLINE. (See separate cover Attachment A.)

4. It is planned at this time to take WIROGUE/1 “Black” to Germany. There he will be met by the undersigned, given his Austrian documentation, contact instructions and letter of credit, stripped of any FBRLINE clothing or personal effects, and dispatched. He is to proceed to Leopoldville on his own and upon arrival make contact. The cover assignment for subject is temporarily left open, although he has been told to look into the prospects of opening a photo or general repair shop. He has actually done photographic work but the decision on this we will leave to your on-the-spot judgment. The letter of credit for three thousand dollars is to be used to finance this venture. There will also be a reserve of one thousand dollars in a Swiss account should expenses necessitate a greater outlay. This money will constitute a non-interest-bearing, operational loan which must be repaid by WIROGUE/1 from profits over a period of years. All other profits after the loan is paid off will be WIROGUE/1’s.

5. A word about the manner of man with whom we are dealing. He is a small, energetic individual, who has displayed shrewdness, cunning, ingenuity and inventiveness. He has a peculiar turn of mind which lends itself remarkably to nefarious and extra-legal activities. Excitement and intrigue are important factors in his life, he relishes it and as a result may be a little delicate to handle. WIROGUE/1 likes order and clear-cut chains of command. He addresses the Prussian approach and as a result will take orders even if he may disagree. It is important to him to have the trust and confidence of his case officer. If in his own mind he feels assured of this and is confident of the professional MUTLSS-type competence of the CO, he will reciprocate in kind. He is indeed aware of the precepts of right and wrong, but if he is given an assignment which may be morally wrong in the eyes of the world, but necessary because his case officer ordered him to carry it out, then it is right and he will dutifully undertake appropriate action for its execution without pangs of conscience. In a word, he can rationalize all actions. One last thought which may be useful. Best results will probably be gotten if, when given an assignment, he be permitted to accomplish it in his own way. The latter is connected with his idea of trust and confidence.

O.R.

Charles R. Roistade

O.R.

Paul E. Leighton

Attachment A (under separate cover).
