Section C. Narrative Comments.

During the period under review, Subject has continued to produce at his previous high level and he has planned and executed three intelligence collection operations against a denied area with the two teams under his supervision and direction. His leadership qualities have, to a large degree, enabled him to maintain his commando group morale at a high level under the difficult circumstances of enforced inactivity. Subject's Indigenous agents respect him and are willing to follow his instructions to the letter. Subject's seemingly limitless resourcefulness, drive and initiative coupled with his demonstrated proficiency for this type of work mark him as one of the few persons known to the Rater who is ideally suited to this particular type of agent handling on a day-to-day, face-to-face basis.

During the reporting period Subject has committed his four infiltration boat teams on a total of seven operations and excellent results have been realized. He has conducted extensive testing of equipment and techniques in support of Station requirements and Headquarters requests. His reporting after these field tests has shown that his reporting ability has improved to such a degree to warrant a rating of strong in this duty.

He is cost and security conscious and has demonstrated his effectiveness in the use of personnel, equipment and operational funds. Subject has not had the benefit of formal language training and does not have a definitive language capability. In view of his long tenure of field assignments during his career with WOFACT, it is recommended he be given.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 28 June 1967. Signature of employee: Irving C. DEVUONO signed in pseudo on 11d. transmittal.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 6 months. Official title of supervisor: Deputy Chief, SO Branch. Typed or printed name and signature: John F. Muraskeon 11d. trans. signed in pseud.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Subject continues to show professional ability in handling the Commando Group. In addition he has been deeply involved in planning and executing intelligence gathering operations. He has adapted to this new field and is performing overall in an outstanding manner.

Special title of reviewing officer, if any. Signed in pseudo. July 3, 1967. Chief, Special Operations. Brig. Gen. George H. Vvement 11c, Trans. signed in Poc.
