Contribution of Gender.

15 December 1962. Majority Report.

ZYBAT 4897.

Francis R. Hegarty, the regular air officer handling LINLUCK, made the following comments pertinent to FORTYUNE's report of possible surveillance:

“On 22 November, Hegarty visited the safehouse at Rio Hudson to remove the typewriter and paper and inform the maid in charge that he intended to leave the apartment on the following day and also to arrange for the payment of the bill which was due. After arranging these matters, Hegarty left the safehouse and purposely took a circuitous route to his car, which had been parked more than a block away on another street. Hegarty turned two corners and crossed two streets and detected an individual, Mexican in appearance, approximately six feet tall, 170 lbs., brown hair, ruddy complexion, wearing a tan suit and open sport shirt, and carrying a manila (manilla) folder in his left hand, walking about 30 feet behind him. Hegarty walked past his car and turned a third corner and walked rapidly to the middle of the block and then turned in his tracks. When Hegarty reached the last corner he had turned, he almost ran into the individual described above. The man opened his eyes wide, hesitated in mid-stride, but then kept on walking in the direction he had been going. Hegarty walked to his car and, after making sure that the individual did not turn back, immediately left the area.”

Hegarty is certain that the safehouse at Rio Hudson was not under surveillance up until 10 November, the last time he visited it previously, and that the surveillance is on the house and not on himself.

Station Comment: See 2a (Conclusion) above. In a later check of this area by Hegarty, he could detect no surveillance, either stationary or moving. Shoquist, however, instructed him to get a new safehouse for LINLUCK meetings immediately following his 22 November report and for neither he nor LINLUCK to go near the Rio Hudson safehouse again.

C. Andrew F. Merton, 1 June 1962.

“On 1 June 1962, while leaving a meeting with LITAU-1, I detected what could have been possible surveillance. The meeting was in the Cafe Blanca on Juarez Avenue, between LaFragua Street and the Cabillino Monument. Upon leaving the meeting, to which I had arrived ‘clean’ to the best of my knowledge, I noted a peculiar flash of expression in the face of a tall, young, dark-haired man apparently waiting in the doorway for something. I had left the meeting first, leaving LITAU-1 to pay the check. Upon noting the expression, I had a hunch that something funny might be going on. I turned right out of the door of the cafe and walked the short distance to the corner of Juarez and Reforma, doubling around the corner to the right. This left me on the north side of Reforma headed west, in which direction I walked about a block. Two good-looking girls passed me headed south and, observing a good old Latin custom, I suddenly swiveled (swivaled) my head to watch them from the rear. I noted that my tail, the dark-haired young man, was behind me. As he noted that I could see him, he suddenly turned right into a store which sells roof water tanks.”

May 530. FORRYLOT. Passed. Four.
