Field Information Report

Country: Cuba  
Subject: Felipe Antonio Coello Martinez Ortega

Report No. HCI-1182  
Date of info: 27 April 1957  
Date acquired: 2 May 1957  
Date of report: 10 May 1957

Place acquired: Habana

Source, source evaluation, appraisal of content: Cuban government official with contacts in Cuban security agencies (E). Appraisal of content: 2.

1. On orders from Colonel Conrado Caufatala Ugaldó, Chief of the Direction Department of the Cuban National Police, the subject was arrested on 27 April 1957 and confined in the 13th Provincial Station in Havana. At the time of his arrest, the subject had in his possession copies of Fundamentos, El Cuba and the Diario de la Republica, NuevaCiencia, El猎人, and various other Communist materials. A subsequent investigation revealed that the subject was an agent of the state para la Represión de Actividades Comunista (ERAC, Bureau for Repression of Communist Activities), revealing the following information:

2. Martinez was born in Habana on 23 August 1927, his father being Coello Martinez Gonsalos and his mother Amalia Ortega Corrales. He resides with his parents at Calle Caliada del Managua No. 25, ground floor, in Montilla. He is single and a student in the final year at the Commercial Sciences School of the University of Habana. For the past year and a half he has also been employed in the Lighting Department of the Electro Sales Company, Inc., Offices 204, Habana. The subject has a sister named Carmen Elenita Martinez Ortega, aged 32 years, married to Huberto Mateo, who is employed as cashier in the Arcabatala Company store, Habana. His sister is a graduate of the Normal School but is not presently working. He did not recall his sister’s address. Mateo stated that both he and his parents are registered in the Central Habana Municipal Electoral Junta; he is a member of the Orthodox Party and his father is a Liberal Party member; he was a member of the Catholic Youth (Jovenzadecasa) from 1943 until 1951. He declared that on several occasions he/they had approached him to join the Juventud Socialista (JS), Central Communist Youth Organization, but that he had not done so.

3. Under interrogation, Martinez said he was not a member of the Cuban Communist Party but associated with Communist doctrine. He is a member of Castro Club 3 and was formerly a member of the Asociación Latinoamericana Libro (ALL, Free Latin America Association). In 1951 he was second vice-president of the Commercial Sciences Student Association at the University of Habana.
