Action copy.

Classified message.

Date: 1-35.

FARRAH MURR. Operational immediate. LFK. Coming number: 6161.

To: DIR. Info: MEXI.

Cite DWAVE0590.

KAPO: TYPIC AMKNOB.

Ref: WAVE 2937 (IN 5865).

1. Debriefing and flutter AMKNOB-I conducted during period 23 Mar–7 Apr 65 established and reaffirmed his current and past bona fides. A-1 flutter conducted 2 Apr indicated no deception. Full points:

A. A-1's current CIS contacts and history, his past relations therewith.

B. His statement he not involved with other intelligence services.

C. His claim he has not informed CIS regarding KUBARK contact.

D. A-1's assertion he has told complete truth to KUBARK regarding his CIS relationship.

E. A-1 claims he has not fabricated reports to KUBARK.

2. A-1 admitted under flutter having engaged in some exaggeration in his reporting to WAVE. Pursuing this topic, WAVE established A-1 had speculated on the relative importance of Raul, his CIS CO, MEXI, when he reported to WAVE as chief CIS officer, MEXI. A-1 explains importance attributed to his CIS CO based on the fact the latter was treated respectfully by fellow employees. A similar instance of fuzzy reporting resulted in A-1 reporting to WAVE that he was directed to travel to Spain by CIS. In fact, A-1 wanted to visit Spain in order to spend Christmas holidays with family, so he surfaced the possibility of his travel to Spain to Raul. Raul responded he would like to visit Spain and might contact A-1 there. The dangers of such inaccurate reporting were impressed upon A-1, who claims he will stick to straight facts in the future.

3. A-1's past and current value to CIS is clearly nominal in view of his vague reporting to date. WAVE plans to promote his status with CIS primarily by prompting him in reporting to CIS information he acquires on his own from Cuban exiles and feeding him items selected by WAVE for passing to CIS.

4. Review of his contacts indicates A-1 has access to MRR, Second Front, and other anti-GOC individuals in WAVE and MEXI areas. For example, A-1 learned from Manuel (Arques) Diaz (201-273016) that he

“Cont.”

WILE E. N. 12-Apr. Incoming. OYS. TO: P-7365. File No.: P-8061.
