Training Evaluation.

1. The official to whom this report is entrusted is personally responsible for it. Although he may, within his discretion, show it to other members of his staff, the report should never be shown to the student whom it concerns.

2. In order to arrive at an unprejudiced and independent evaluation, this report was prepared without any knowledge of appraisal results.

3. This report summarizes the important facts and the relevant observations which have been discovered about the student by the various instructors during the student's course of training. The more complete data on the student are available in the files of the Training Branch, and may be examined by contacting the Chief of the Staff Training Division.

Student's name: William V. Broe (Droe). Branch: FED/SEA. AITC XII.

Training period: 13 September–22 October 1948. Date of report: 16 November 1948.

Note: The facts, observations, and opinions reported in this evaluation are derived from and restricted to the eight weeks during which the employee was a student in the Staff Training Courses. Mr. Broe was absent from two of the four weeks of the Basic Intelligence Training Course. He was ill during part of the six weeks of the Advanced Intelligence Training Course. The present evaluation is made at the end of the Advanced Course and supersedes the tentative evaluation given for the Basic Course.

Projected job assignment: Intelligence Officer, Operations, Philippine Desk at Washington, D.C.

Mr. Broe received the following ratings during the Advanced Intelligence Training Course:

Interviewing and Interrogation: Satisfactory.

Operations:

1. Comprehension of basic principles of operations: Excellent.

2. Ability to analyze and use operational data: Excellent.

a. Operational planning ability: Excellent.

b. Attention to detail: Superior.

3. Ability to analyze and to handle personalities and situations: Excellent.

a. Handling of personal and operational security: Excellent.

b. Ability to establish and maintain control over others: Satisfactory.
