VI. 12 April 1973

Uruguay

Military Court Questions Blanco Party Leader

Paris AFP in Spanish, 1453 GMT, 11 April 1973.

[Excerpts] Montevideo, 11 April—Reliable sources today reported that the military court has asked Blanco Party national leader Omar Murdoch for information about a declaration issued 2 weeks ago in which the Blanco Party strongly criticized President Bordaberry and the military authorities.

The military court is trying to establish whether the Blanco Party leader committed a violation of military regulations. It also asked Murdoch whether he concurred with the terms of the Blanco Party declaration.

It was reported that the alleged violation concerned the military regulation which prevents retired officers from participating in or formulating political declarations during the 4 years following their retirement.

According to reliable sources, Murdoch—a retired navy captain—will be brought before the military tribunal if the violation is confirmed.

The military court's action agitated the political atmosphere, and the Blanco Party leaders will meet this evening to discuss the situation. A Blanco Party member expressed the opinion that instead of looking into the political attitudes of retired officers, the military court should try those military men on active duty who have in effect formed a political party.

It was revealed in parliamentary circles that opposition legislators will demand in parliament that the defense minister explain the true motives which led to the proceedings initiated by the military court.

Argentine Author Released from Uruguayan Prison

Paris AFP in Spanish, 1445 GMT, 11 April 1973.

[Text] Montevideo, 11 April—Argentine writer and journalist Eduardo Galeano was released yesterday by a military court after a 1-week detention. Galeano himself confirmed his release today and said that he was in perfect health and that he had been well-treated during his detention.

He was arrested at Carrasco Airport on his return from a visit to several Latin American countries. Galeano, who has been living in Uruguay for a long time, is a journalist of the leftist weekly MARCHA and was recently appointed director of the Argentine review CRISIS.

The reason for his arrest is unknown. Several circles not only in Uruguay and Argentina but also in several Latin American countries protested the arrest of the author of the book “The Opened Veins of Latin America.”
