Important Message to Eligibles

You have received an eligible notice of rating. What does this mean?

It means that: Your name has been placed on the list of persons who have passed this examination, in its proper relative standing. This list of eligibles, or register, is kept by the office whose name and address appears in the lower right-hand corner on the other side of this notice.

It means that: When your name is reached on the register, you will be considered for the type of jobs for which you have qualified, in the geographical area covered by the examination. When a Federal agency requests the Commission to supply the names of eligibles, the names of the three eligibles at the top of the register are certified to the agency for consideration. The agency appointing officer may choose any one of these three persons, so long as he complies with the Veterans' Preference Act of 1944, as amended.

It means that: Your prospects for getting a job from this examination cannot be predicted. They depend upon how many vacancies may occur to be filled by eligibles, and on your relative standing on the register. Your name will be certified for consideration as it comes within reach and as requests for eligibles are received. If you are not selected, your name will go back on the register in its proper relative standing, to be considered again when within reach until the register is terminated.

It means that: You must inform the office which issued this notice of rating of any changes in your address or in the conditions under which you will accept appointment. Send any new information concerning your address or availability to the office whose name and address is shown in the lower right-hand corner on the other side of this notice, and refer to the title of the examination and the rating received.

Additional Information

1. Any offer of appointment or inquiry as to availability which you may receive from a Federal agency will show whether you are being considered for a limited temporary, a career-conditional, or a career appointment.

2. If, when you are considered for appointment, you signify that you are not available or you fail to reply to a communication, your name will be removed from the register until you satisfactorily explain your reasons and specify the conditions under which you would be willing to accept any appointment. When you are unable to accept any appointment you should request that your name be suspended from the register until you are again able to access ...

Changes in availability, or transfer of eligibility, will be acted on without further notice to you.

3. If you are now employed by the Federal Government and have received an eligible rating, show this notice to your personnel officer. He should be aware of your eligibility on this examination. This does not release you from your responsibility to keep the office maintaining your eligibility informed of changes as mentioned above.

4. A competitor who received an eligible rating may, under certain conditions, have his eligibility transferred from the register of one civil service office to a similar register in another civil service office.

A competitor who wishes to have his eligibility transferred should send his request to the office where his eligibility is maintained.

Determination will then be made, and the competitor will be notified, as to whether his eligibility can be transferred.

5. A register established from an examination held in order to fill a specific type of position at a stated salary may also be used to fill vacancies in related positions or at a lower salary. When you accept a career-conditional or a career appointment, your name will be removed from all registers established as a result of this examination. Until your name is removed, your willingness to accept a lower salary will not affect your eligibility for positions at a higher salary.

If you are not appointed or the register is not officially terminated earlier, your eligibility from this examination will be in effect for a period of 18 months only unless you submit up-to-date information about your qualifications before that time by letter, Standard Form 57 or Form 57A; however, such information will not be accepted if you have had eligibility for less than 1 year. The date of issue which appears on this “Notice of Rating” is that on which your period of eligibility began.
