1. As Mr. David E. Murphy, GS-18, retires on 31 July 1975, he will have completed some 33 years of Federal service, 27 of which have been with the Agency. His record has been an outstanding one in all respects. His accomplishments and the level and range of responsibilities he has exercised fully warrant the award of the Distinguished Intelligence Medal in recognition thereof.

2. Mr. Murphy brought to the Agency from his previous military and civilian experience and study, a knowledge of the Russian language and of the Soviet system. It was in the field of Soviet operations that he rapidly made his mark, first in Japan and then in Germany. His inclusive mind, vitality, enthusiasm, imagination, managerial talent and keen analytical ability led to early recognition on the part of his superiors that Mr. Murphy was an outstanding officer with very high potential. By 1954, he had risen to the position of DCOB, Berlin and in 1959 became Chief of that large and important base. He distinguished himself there. In recognition of his abilities and accomplishments he then rose successively to the position of DC/EE Division, C/EE Division, C/SR Division and C/SE Division. Each assignment was one of increasing responsibility and challenge in the direction of efforts of the Clandestine Service and the Agency against our hardest targets. The laudatory fitness reports he received from top Agency management in these assignments clearly reflect the high professional regard in which he was held and convey the judgments of the major significance of the contributions he made to the Agency mission in support of U.S. policy and national security.

3. After revitalizing and redirecting our Soviet program as C/SR and of the enlarged SB Division, Mr. Murphy was appointed COS, Paris in 1968 and served in that position until 1974. His six years in Paris were marked by steady progress in all areas of the missions and objectives assigned to that large and complex station and by the handling of delicate political and internal crisis situations in France effectively and to the benefit of the Agency and the United States. His analyses of the situation in France at times of tension and crisis were particularly remarked upon for their clarity, incisiveness and value to U.S. policy makers. For his leadership of the Paris Station, Mr. Murphy's performance was characterized as "Outstanding" in each of the years of his service there.
