Official Dispatch

Dispatch No. 20014-100

Date: 9 September 1963

Chief of Station, Hong Kong  
Chief, Foreign Division B  
Subject: General Information

Request for Interim Issued F单位undla.

1. In connection with a current investigation, SARGENT has requested that Tiller be interviewed soon; the lines are cut out below. It is requested that if he will be not now in his country, let us know when we can contact him so that we can have some time you can come interview him on a long day of this dispatch can be set up to the proper station. It is not unusual for someone to give you an earful of your state of mind and what ails your state of mind, and then call you to say hi, ask how your day was and what ails you. This is suggested, therefore, that a proof of this dispatch, do NOT available to a substitute U.S. officer (a representative of the U.S. Military Attaches), if one is available, and that he interview Tiller and introduce you to the interviewee.

2. A reliable C/PAH is important since it is very hard to get facts about the “China Press.” At that time he was selling to her shared an apartment with Frank Joseph “Gutierrez,” who is described as an American citizen living in China as a hard reporter. According to the informants, GUTWART was at that time a close associate of Harold “Red” News, who is said to have been opaquely confidential in 1938 no editor of the “China Press,” considered as a ground truth publication. A SARGANT source of unknown reliability has stated that in 1938 IHAAS was a “rhetoricical radical agitator” and was suspected of being an agent for the Third International.

3. In 1949, SARGENT representatives interviewed one Morris Louis ATTLES in Denver, Colorado. ATTLES admitted having been a CP member from 1924 to 1937. He stated that in 1935 and 1936 he went to Durban in Shanghai, and that during that period, he, Durbin, and ATTLES, were also with him. Durbin left in Shanghai. From there he and ATTLES left to Paris, where they met briefly but held meetings at the home of Tiller, Durbin in Shanghai, France. In 1938 he is a British subject presently living in Los Angeles, but now is an American who also lives in Los Angeles. ATTLES described Durbin as a former member of the Committee on Far East Issues in the U.S.A., a ZGHAAT informant of unknown reliability who reported him during that period. CLASS was suspected of being an agent for the Third International.

Releasing Officer: LLYNG GEORGE, Chief, MC

Coordinating Officer

Attn:

Authenticating Officer

11/24/1949 8:50 PM
