Or to continue.

He mentioned the group and it produced a newsletter. He had promised them money; they put out one issue, and he never gave them any money. I heard that they were in contact with the Clichy group and were seeking some sort of recognition there. Along with the things that they had promised, they did a self-criticism, admitting that they had done wrong to have accepted supervision and saying that they would never do this again.

(John Llewellyn Davis, you say—who the hell is he?)

Yes.

(We talked about Pablo.) Is this Michael Rapp?

He is a member of the Trotskyist Fourth International—or was. He has been expelled for his heretical views, not that they all do not have heretical views, but his were extremely pro-Algerian. I think he has become an Algerian citizen. He is Belgian, I believe, or Dutch, but I think he is Belgian. He was arrested in Holland. He worked for the FLN during the war, went to Algeria, was arrested in Holland, spent some time in jail, was released, then went to Algiers with his wife and became very active in the Bureau des Biens Vacantes, and then later the Bureau of the Socialist Sector. His influence has been of an ideological nature, and he has very close ties with the Yugoslavs. Despite his Trotskyism, and although he has now been expelled, he is also not at all persona non grata with the Soviets. He has a group called Pabloites.

(How did he hit on Pablo?)

This was his nom de guerre, I suppose.

International.

He represented for a while a majority tendency in the Trotskyist movement, helped by the American SWP, Socialist Workers Party. Finally expelled. I do not know the ins and outs of the Trotskyists very much.

(When did you first run into him?)

I had heard of him for years. The first time I saw him in the flesh was sitting in a café in Algiers. I never had anything to do with him. He used to hang out in a café which was right under the offices of Revolution Africaine, which was sort of a center for European leftists and whatnot. It was called the Café Mix Very (?) Bit of reality.

(Did he ever have anything to do with Revolution?)

He may have had something to do with it later with Harbi, but not under Vergès.

(I meant in Europe, not Algiers.)

No, no, nothing.
