What information did the Police ask for and obtain about David’s previous employment?

What did David tell them about his relations with the SSAA?

Which home addresses did he give in Paris and in Berlin?

Whom did he speak to at Police Headquarters, and who issued him the certificate that he brought to the SSAC camp?

46. David said that he had a room hired where he stayed (49) during his duty-free time.

When and where did you rent the private room for yourself?

What kind of house was this room in?

Who was the landlord or landlady?

What was the rent?

Had you registered the room with your Police Unit?

For how long did you have this room?

48. How often did he have to show himself at the hospital for renewal of his convalescence certificate?

Was a stamp used when the certificate was renewed?

How many times did he “renew” the certificate himself?

51. When and where—town and occasion—did David get acquainted with Asterée?

Since when did Asterée know of his falsifications (falcifications)?

Since when did she help him with this? How did she help?

Where did he get the typewriter?

(52) When was this certificate regarding a “surgical operation” prepared and used?

On how many occasions did David use this certificate?

57. Where did he learn this trick with the two documents—presenting the false one first?

59. Sketch all the seals and stamps ALLCU has made for you.

60. Which documents did you supply with filigree nets prepared by yourself? Where did you learn this?

Form letters from which offices did you have printed through the intermediary of Allou?

70. Was WERWERT the real name of the man for whom you prepared a Spanish passport, or why was this name used?

Who was Werwert according to the passport you prepared for him?

Did you photograph Werwert to obtain the necessary photo? Where did you do this?

Where did you get the necessary “visa” for the passport?

71. What was the name of the soldier at the switchboard of the commandantura in Paris?

What was his address in Berlin?

Describe the family; give names and ages.

Describe their living place, or where you met the wife.

Were the soldier and his wife aware of their use?
