Section C. Narrative Comments. Instructions: Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper. UCL 28 to 40 Jul ’69.

This employee, a GS-09, arrived PCS at the Guayaquil Base on 13 May 1969 and has been under this Rater’s supervision during this four and one-half month period. Guayaquil is his first overseas assignment with this Agency.

During this short reviewing period, this Officer has demonstrated a marked insight and knowledgeableness of the operations he has been assigned, and has provided a number of good ideas and suggestions for the betterment of these operations. Subject is proving to be a hard worker and has not complained of the many extra hours he has devoted to his operations. He has accepted responsibilities without hesitation and is not afraid to take on difficult tasks using initiative and ingenuity in their completion. This latter quality has been amply demonstrated when the Rater was unexpectedly confined to a hospital in the Panama Canal Zone for the full month of August 1969, leaving this employee solely responsible for the Base as the only inside Case Officer at the Base during this time. Rater’s absence corresponded with a change in Case Officer PCS assignments at the Base, which left the Base temporarily depleted of Officers. During this period, Subject exhibited an ability and maturity expected of an officer of higher grade and greater field experience. He organized his increased workload in a ...Continued...

Section D. Certification and Comments.

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. By employee.

Date: 2 October 1969. Signature of employee: /s/ Daniel Flores. By supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Base. Type or printed name and signature: /A/ Neil Hinckley.

Comments of reviewing official: This Officer has made a most impressive beginning in Guayaquil. He has in a few short months adapted to new tasks and a new environment with mature, if modest, assurance and a professional approach which speaks highly for the training and experience he has had. He has taken on, in the absence of the Chief of Base and other senior officers, responsibilities uncommon to an officer of his junior position, and he has handled them in a superior fashion. He and his wife have entered into their representational responsibilities with great enthusiasm and effectiveness, and I predict a most highly successful tour for him in Ecuador. Because he has shown a personal and professional competence beyond his grade level, it is strongly recommended that he be considered for promotion to GS-10 at the earliest opportunity. By reviewing official.

Date: 16 October 1969. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station. Type or printed name and signature: /N/ John S. Morgan.
