G. Very early in our relationship Q said that he would like to make a career in KUBARK, outside now, perhaps inside some day. He would work in PBERMIL or abroad. There was no indication then, and has been none since, that he regards the present relationship as a distasteful one to be terminated as soon as conditions permit.

He would like to settle in an expatriate's paradise, such as Paris or Rome, presumably involved in journalism and other writing. If he could do these things in connection with his work for us, so much the better.

H. Q is conscious of the need for security and handles himself well—as well as an amateur could in this context. But he is far more naive about techniques and especially the nuances of technique than Rodigast would have expected in one who had been involved in the revolutionary movement for so long. He often needs instruction on obvious points, and responds quite well to it, the exception being his clumsy handling of the s/w method—he is an intellectual and not a technician, and Rodigast assumes that he (Rodigast) would not do much better if forced to use some technical system.

Q is quite observant. He will recall a personal remark made to him by Rodigast from one month to the next. His reports written some time after the event are thorough and apparently accurate.

He read A Spy and His Master by Christopher Felix, and has mentioned it a couple of times when a remark by Rodigast reminds him of something said in the book.

Rodigast doesn't think that even after training Q would be very good at throwing off surveillance, for example, as he seems too matter-of-fact to be sly, and perhaps slightly lazy about what might be gratuitous behavior, e.g., changing subway trains or taxis just on the assumption that someone might be following him. Rodigast's solution is not to depend on Q for such things, but to attempt to plan meetings and stage other operations so as to minimize the need for dependence on Q's skill in such areas. After patient briefing Q does understand the need for tradecraft efficiency, and as already noted he follows the advice.

I. At first Q was quite concerned about money—he needed an advance for clothes, for travel, etc. His requests were really plaints, and he may have left the impression that he thinks of nothing but money. It was the complex of a poor boy who never had anyone he could turn to—despite a scholarship he had to leave a fine college after a brilliant freshman year. Once he received his advance and began receiving his money at the beginning rather than at the end of each month, and when he realized that he would receive complete and prompt reimbursement of expenses, he began to relax. Now he submits accountings without himself totaling the figures or keeping his own record (Rodigast knows this for he has seen Q's notes), so he must rely on us to tell him how much he claimed for (even Rodigast would never do that). He is, in sum, relaxed.

The same ease is to be noted in his substantive work; he submits his reports knowing he has done his best, and done well; he accepts compliments with a very slight nod. When Rodigast first met Q in a hotel room, Q had something of the hunted man. He still seems harried, slightly nervous at the moment of contact, but on the whole he is more sure of himself.

At the outset, Q would argue about assignments, suggesting alternatives, worrying about not having time to buy tickets, or enough money to pay for them. Now he accepts instructions without a murmur,
