6. REYAS COCITIDZE

Has new name (unknown to AEPADDLE). About 18 years old. French citizen. Well-balanced, intelligent. Was medical student in Georgia. Now is a chemist. Makes approximately 80,000 francs per month. Wife Nellie, née MOIVANI. Has son and daughter. Lives at 53 Boul. St. Michel, phone D'Anton 7829. Mlle. Ll escapes. Strong man, 6'1", 180 lbs. Former international volleyball player. Long face, curly hair, no moustache. Never expressed any interest in active work. Loves money. Likes France.

7. Mathe KERESELIDZE

Le Vesinet (near Paris), phone PRincess 1743. Approximately 45 years old (appears 55). Lives with father, Gogi, and brother, Loulon.

Wife Mala. Daughter Nina, 22 years old, works for 20th Century Fox, and wants to come to the US. She has a business education. She is a French citizen. Mathe was born in Tiflis, left at age 3, and was educated in Germany. He and his brother were sent to France in the early 30s to learn French. The family followed later. In 1941 Mathe volunteered to help the Germans fight the Soviets. In 1942 he was sent on a parachute mission from the Crimea (Crimesa) to Georgia. He was caught after hiding with a farmer for three months. His companion was killed and he was wounded in the leg. KERESELIDZE kept his German uniform all the time he was in prison. A military court considered him a POW, but the NKVD sentenced him to 20 years for espionage. He was in several camps. His family attempted to get word of him through the French and German embassies in Moscow. They spent their own funds and received aid from Archil TSITSICHVILI. KERESELIDZE was released from prison in 1957 and arrived in France in September. He refused to return to Tiflis or to take Soviet citizenship. His teeth are poor and he is in need of rest. He plans to go to Germany for medical and financial assistance as a former soldier. He will also attempt to finish the memoirs he has started. He will also attempt to find work through former German comrades and may ask for German or French citizenship. Still wants to fight Communism and does not fear reprisals against self or family. Interested in becoming an advisor on Soviet affairs or in working for Voice of America. Knows Georgian, Russian, German, and French. Has fair knowledge of English.
