2. Ratings on Performance of Specific Duties.

Directions: a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important specific duties performed during this period. Place the most important first. Do not include minor or unimportant duties. b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering only effectiveness in performance of this specific duty. c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty (do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only). d. Compare in your mind, as far as possible, the individual being rated with others per rating form dated 3/15/65 and similar level of responsibility. e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties. f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are: oral briefing, giving lectures, contracting, seminars, writing technical reports, contracting external liaison, typing, taking dictation, supervising, has and uses area knowledge, develops new programs, analyzes industrial reports, manages files, operates radio, coordinates with other offices, writes regulations, prepares correspondence, conflict interpretations, prepares summaries, translates German, debriefing sources, keeps books, drives truck, maintains air conditioning, evaluates significance of data. g. For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

Descriptive Rating Number: 1. Incompetent in the performance of this duty. 2. Barely accurate in the performance of this duty. 3. Performs this duty acceptably. 4. Performs this duty in a competent manner. 5. Performs this duty in such a fine manner that he is a distinct asset on his job. 6. Performs this duty in an outstanding manner found in very few individuals holding similar jobs. 7. Excels anyone I know in the performance of this duty.

Specific duty No. 1: Processing and dissemination of field information reports. Rating number 4. Preparation of correspondence to the field. Rating number 3.

Specific duty No. 2: Handling of project outlines and renewals and other administrative details. Rating number 4. Specific duty No. 5. Rating number 3.

Specific duty No. 3: Providing operational support to the station. Rating number 3. Specific duty No. 6. Rating number 6.

3. Narrative Description of Work or Job Performance.

Directions: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job. A large portion of Mr. Wigren's time is taken up with the processing of field information reports and the handling of administrative aspects of various FI projects, both of which he performs efficiently, although he requires supervision to ensure the prompt completion of project details. In the area of operational support for the field, which includes providing the station with requirements, with name traces, operational appraisal and operational guidance, Mr. Wigren performs acceptably but occasionally shows a lack of initiative and originality of ideas such as would be required to raise the rating in this category. As regards preparation of correspondence for the field, Mr. Wigren here again performs acceptably, but occasionally shows a lack of observance and attention to detail.
