I know that's one of the things in the back of their minds in Paris. About every French delegation to Havana—even one just recently—I heard that Fidel went around saying, “Why doesn't De Gaulle come and visit us?”

There is a Gaullist group, France-Cuba (?), not the Communist [group], but there is a Communist organization. There is also one inside the concerned-with-Cuba government party, and they have made recommendations for increasing trade. One of the things also encouraged is the increase of Spanish trade.

Ironically, one of the heroes of Cuba is Franco, because he continued leading, you know, when we get [garbled], here is never any trouble from the evil-doer trade, and then later, they have themselves. I have a feeling that the Spanish attitude has some influence on the French. I would imagine that they hope that eventually this will be communicated to the West Germans.

Cuba certainly, I feel, if they did have such a diversification of trade and an opening horizon—because so many problems with the United States become emotional problems that no matter what the head of state wants to do, you've got the problem of how to put it before the Congress and public opinion, which has been so sensitized to it that this is the problem of American statesmanship that you don't have in any other places. De Gaulle, for example, say the people? They don't care, but even he wouldn't go beyond a certain point.

Another thing, Algeria. Probably only De Gaulle could have reached a settlement.

(In two minutes, that's your prognosis for future U.S.-Cuban relations.)

It depends very much on the United States. I think, I know, there are elements in Cuba who are more than willing. But they don't want to be pushed. The trouble is that when a Cuban talks to America, the next question is, “When are you going to get rid of the Red regime?” or something like that. That is the end of the dialogue. I would imagine that it would have to be through talks. I understand—this is one thing that this Carlos Moore, the Afro-Cuban boy who is extremely anti-revolutionary—he says he wants a real revolution. He worked in the Foreign Ministry, what he was at one time. He used to claim that Dorticos and people around Dorticos are very, very anxious for a rapprochement with the United States. That they would love to have contact. I certainly know that Dr. Roa, foreign minister, wanted somehow to have contacts, more direct contacts. He has had a problem too, that in public he couldn't say anything, and whenever he was in New York he was boxed in.

(I don't want to start a debate, but you say that the—“When are you going to get rid of the Red regime?”—this is the reflection of the...
