Subject: David DAVID

Dates of interview: 8, 9, 10 January 1959.

1. Subject was met in Paris by the case officer and examiner and submitted to an intensive preliminary psychological examination. He was examined via a French interpreter. The interpreter has been requested to submit his own assessment to the undersigned.

2. Subject is 40 years of age. He was born on 12 July 1918 in Georgia, USSR. At that time Georgia was a free country and not part of the USSR.

3. Subject regards his parents as “nobles,” and he feels that their status had a great influence on his behaviour in the period which followed the family’s immigration into France in 1921.

4. Subject feels he acquired a certain prejudicial class attitude and abided by the principle of noblesse oblige. In other words, he feels that if you pretend to be something, you have to act accordingly. His concept of nobility has evolved into a concept of dignity and pride in his work.

5. The family left Georgia when the subject was three. They fled before the Soviet invasion. Subject feels that his real existence began at this point. Because the father had provided himself with certain monies, the family was able to live comfortably and even opulently. However, the vicissitudes of life brought the family progressively to material degradation and financial difficulties, which greatly influenced Subject’s way of thinking thereafter. Whereas the family had previously lived in an artificial feudalistic way, life became tough. Subject feels that the family was brought into more direct contact with reality and that this was not necessarily a bad influence.

6. Subject actually did not want to leave Georgia. He felt it was a flight rather than a tactical retreat. Apparently, he has never been able to accept this humiliating defeat, and it may be that part of his current motivation for affiliation involves his perception of an opportunity to take countermeasures against the Soviets. He is a person who cannot tolerate being beaten in competition.
