Contract for OML Commitments.

Date: 5 March 1965.

To: Chief, Finance Division. Via: Contract Approving Officer. Pro: Chief of Station, “Enco City.”

Subject: Inpayment of $25,000.9 as independent contractor.

1. Inpayment chart: The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project LAVAGE and is chargeable to SUBJECT, subject to termination by CDNCO upon 30 days’ actual notice.

2. Security approval: The appropriate security approval for subject’s use has been obtained. Type PFI in process. Date: [blank].

3. Citizenship: Subject is a foreign national.

4. Compensation: The subject will be paid 5000 Pases per month. The approximate equivalent of this amount in PEPPI currency is 17 dollars. Subject will receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to one month’s pay. Other considerations in the nature of bonus commitments, gifts, paid vacations, etc., include small Christmas and birthday gifts may be given. No commitment.

5. Taxes: Subject is not subject to PEPPI’s income taxes.

6. Quarters and/or subsistence: Subject will be furnished quarters and/or subsistence allowances. The following commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to accommodate increased cost-of-living and quarters expenses: None.

7. Operational expenses: Subject will be reimbursed for operational travel. Subject will be reimbursed for operational expenses. Any minor operational expense approved by the case officer, such as transportation to meeting site. Note: Subject has never submitted a claim for any such expense to date.

8. Commitment requirements: The following have not been promised the individual but may have to be met by CDNCO. Reason for each contingent obligation: Subject may have to be provided safe haven if his current housing is aware of his activities for this. This does not imply asphyx. in PEPPO.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

10. Comment: This MOC submitted because subject’s salary was raised from $4000 to $5000 a month effective 1 March 1965. Authority: DIR 83922 (IN 5/55) of 5 March 1965.

SIEMB: Case Officer.

Approved: Sicardo C. Curtis, Field Contracting Officer (COS). Contract Approving Officer.

Distribution: 3 authentic copies to Ms. 1 file P 6079. 1 support.
