C. Indicate if you trust that any single strength or weakness of the individual is another circumstance: Not applicable.

O. Do you feel that he requires close supervision? No.

I. What training do you recommend for this individual? The employer presently requires no additional training. Future training will depend upon his next assignment.

I. Other comments (indicate here general traits, specific habits or characteristics not covered elsewhere in the report that may have a bearing on effective utilization of this section).

Section VI.

Read all descriptions before rating. Place “X” in the first appropriate number under subsections A, B, C, D.

A. Directions: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. Does not perform duties adequately. He is incompetent.

2. Rates adequate in performance. Although he has had specific guidance or training, he often fails to carry out responsibilities competently.

3. Performs most of his duties acceptably. Occasionally reveals some area of weakness.

4. Performs duties in a typically competent, effective manner.

5. An excellent performance; carries out many of his responsibilities exceptionally well.

6. Performs his duties in such an outstanding manner that he is equaled by other persons known to the rater.

Is this individual better qualified for work in some other area? No.

C. Directions: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and his other indications, give your opinion of this person’s attitude toward the organization.

1. Has an extremely negative attitude toward the organization and will definitely leave the organization at the first opportunity.

2. Has a strong negative attitude toward the organization, viewing it as a temporary stop until he can get something better.

3. Shows an unfavorable attitude toward the organization due to wrong attitudes, frustrations, and so forth; will quit if these continue.

4. His attitude toward the organization is based on individual interests only and he should be sure of himself if someone offers him something better.

5. Shows a favorable attitude toward the organization. Makes allowances for restrictions and limitations while working for the organization; thinks in terms of a career in the organization.

6. Has a favorable attitude toward the organization, gaining an unexpected outside advantage. Will probably indicate a desire to make a career in the organization.

7. Has an extremely negative attitude toward the organization and will probably never consider working as placed in the organization.

8. Directions: Considering others of this person’s grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibility normally indicated by promotion.

1.
