January 1962

American Embassy Section — January 1960–January 1962

To the KGB, the recruitment of a military code clerk was his priority during the micro-task in 1960–1961. He “knew,” however, that the Eighth NKO Directorate was reading at least some State Department embassy traffic.

Nosenko’s Information

Embassy Section

At his second meeting with CIA in 1962, Nosenko expressed concern that the American Embassy in Moscow might be informed of him, an event which would be fatal since the KGB was reading all the State Department ciphers. He knew this because he saw the clear-text messages every day. In a subsequent meeting Nosenko revised his earlier statement to explain that, while no service attaché traffic was being read, certain State Department codes had been broken. He had only rarely seen the clear-text of deciphered cables, at the most, “ten or twelve times” during 1960 and 1961.

The Russian text of those deciphered State Department messages was sent to KGB Chairman Semichastnyy, who sometimes forwarded it to Gribanov (Gribanov), Chief of the Second Chief Directorate. Gribanov at times forwarded some of the material to Vladimir Alekseyevich Klypin, Chief of the American Department, or Klypin’s successor, S. M. Fedoseyev. Nosenko personally saw such material on the desk of Klypin and later on Fedoseyev’s desk, but was never permitted to read it.

Nikolay Zemskov, from the Secretariat of the Second Chief Directorate, brought a book containing the broken State Department messages to Klypin or Fedoseyev. He would open the book to certain pages which had red paper and permit Klypin or Fedoseyev to see the material. This was Eighth Directorate material, but Nosenko did not know where or how Zemskov got it. At times portions of this material were read aloud to Nosenko by Klypin, but they concerned the position of the American Ambassador or the U.S. Government on political questions and were of no significance to him.

Infrequently there was mention of the expected arrival of Americans who were not permanently assigned to the Embassy. Nosenko remembered that one such item concerned the expected arrival of a one- or two-man “commission” to check the work of the Political Section. The attitude of the Secretary of the American Embassy was sometimes expressed on certain unremembered topics, but Nosenko took no interest.
