EOM-A-3992  
KAPCI-492

16 January 1956

6. At present we plan to allow LIPSTICK-21 considerable time to get settled securely into his new quarters before starting any operational efforts. After this waiting period is over and we feel that we can securely commence operations, we plan on using the base for the following efforts:

a. A supplementary photographic base. In this connection the request for additional Exactas and spotting scopes previously made should be expedited. It is anticipated that much operational information will be developed by this photographic work showing the various associations between the people when they are at play in the compound which can never be determined from the LIPSTICK-LIMITED coverage. Visitors who seldom leave the compound do engage in social activity within the compound and can be photographed for possible identification by the AEDIPPERS. Items which are loaded into the automobiles for transportation to unknown points may be identified through this coverage. Further, should LIPSTICK/LIMITED be terminated for any reason, we would be able to continue some coverage from this base.

b. Observation by LIPSTICK-21 of the buildings and the activities in the compound will furnish valuable information on the daily living habits of the residents and their guests.

c. The LIPSTICK/LIDOMINO base, presently being occupied by LINCH-PIN, is about 75 yards away from the LIMERICK target while LIPSTICK/LICALIA is only about fifty feet. This base may assist the Headquarters technicians, who periodically use the LIPSTICK/LIDOMINO base, for reasons of proximity and the use of their equipment from a different direction. The exact use of the LIPSTICK/LICALIA base in this respect must be determined by the headquarters technicians who are familiar with the equipment used.

d. Conversations in the LIVERICK (LIMERICK) compound are audible to someone who is listening from the maid's room. Naturally street noises and extraneous sounds interfere considerably with this eavesdropping so that the employment of some parabolic microphone and recorder must be used for optimum results.

e. Should future operations provide the opportunity to install a transmitter microphone (resonant cavity) in some item carried into the LIVERICK (LIMERICK) target, LIPSTICK/LICALIA would serve as an excellent base since it has direct line of sight to the back of the LIVERICK (LIMERICK) target.
