Continuation of Dispatch.

Dispatch symbol and number: O52A-14,272.

d. Of the Muller group, which was called the “127,” about 60 prisoners were taken, five of whom, including source, were set free. One of these was an infiltrator called Flores, whom no one trusted since they knew that he was not “one of the group.” Another of these was Rolando Valdez D'Wolf who is now in prison in the Fortaleza de la Cabana serving a nine-year sentence. He was captured trying to escape in a car belonging to a militiaman and wearing a militia uniform. He defended himself bravely, but received five bullet wounds which incapacitated him. The other two who were released were Eduardo Diaz Lanz and Jorge Cruz Peña, a sergeant in the Rebel Army who was with Castro in the Sierra. The latter had actually not been involved in the group. Source thought that he (source) and Diaz Lanz were released so that they might be followed and lead the Government to other groups and individuals in Havana who might be involved in resistance activity. Source had been in prison six months before being released, and one thing which he could not explain was that on the paper that he was given which indicated his release, no mention was made of any sentence or penalty.

e. On several occasions, Muller had been subjected to false execution procedures, with the purpose of trying to make him talk, but he did not weaken. During the trial, “everyone remained firm,” and source was told that Muller was very brave in his pronouncements against the Regime and, at every moment, abided by his principles. He presented a very brilliant self-defense.

f. When source was in the Boniato prison, he shared a cell with a Captain Aníbal Rodríguez, who belonged to the MRR. This officer, along with other rebel officers and soldiers, had staged an uprising in Imías, in Oriente Province. Later he was sentenced to death and shot.

g. During his last days in Cuba, source avoided all revolutionary activity, since he wanted to leave Cuba more than anything else. However he knew that the various resistance groups worked hard, carrying out a great deal of independent sabotage activity, although there was not much coordination among the various movements. One movement which had a large membership, especially in Oriente Province, was the R-30-11. This group was planning to launch an insurrection in Pinar del Río in January 1962, but they could not carry it out since the repression in the area was so great.

h. Hans, a member of the Revolutionary Student Directorate, was recently taken prisoner, and it seemed that he was tortured a great deal and talked. As a result of this, a house in Wajay, in Havana Province, was seized and arms and gelatina were found. The owners of the house and other persons were arrested.

Helen B. Caporla

Attachment: Spanish report - 1
