Dispatch. Classification: Leopoldville. To: Chief of Station, Leopoldville. From: Chief, Africa Division. Subject: Operational WIROGUE/1. Action required references: A. DIR 08782 (OUT 86554); B. LEP 0225 (IN 36750).

1. The plans and development of the Wirogue project have reached a point whereby a summation of the progress made and the plans for the future is in order. At this writing it is anticipated that Wirogue/1 (Wiroguel) will be on the Leopoldville scene on the first of December.

2. Wirogue/1 had originally been recruited in Europe for a REDSOX operation. He was flown to FBPRIME “black” and underwent an extensive training program. This included survival, small arms and other similar type PM training. After a year of such training the project failed to materialize; as a result, subject was preparing for resettlement in South America. The AF/Division took interest in Wirogue/1 and after an assessment decided that with his peculiar background, talents and general makeup he could effectively be utilised along the lines cited in reference A. On 21 October 1960 the case was transferred officially to the Africa Division.

3. Since that date to the present, every effort has been made to psychologically orient Wirogue/1 for this assignment and to prepare him operationally for its fulfillment. To insure the security of the operation, prevent any identification with ODYONE and/or KUBARK, and to preclude any unexpected recovery of Wirogue/1’s past which would associate him with his pre-KUBARK life, a number of basic steps were taken. Those were:

a. Wirogue/1 underwent plastic surgery, which changed the shape of his nose.

b. A toupee had been made for his constant use. This and the plastic surgery have altered him sufficiently to obviate any recognition.

Distribution: 2-Leopoldville; 1-AF/West/2; 1-C/AF/West.

Date typed: 14 Nov. 1960. Date dispatched: T NOV 1960. Dispatch symbol and number: ACIM-192. Headquarters file number: 201-233477. Originating office: AF/West/2. Originating officer: Daniel Niesciur. Typist: hm. Extension: 8284. Coordinating. Office symbol. Date. Officer’s name.
