Date: 10 May 1962. To: Chief of Station, Police City; May 1–June 7th one. CIA, MO: C.P. of Ctn. Station, Police City. Subject: References of Joe C. Heller for Political Operations. Date: May 15, 1962. To: Marked for indexing. Action required: No indexing is allowed. Indexing can be judged by qualified no-index only.

1. The Station had been aware of Ellier's association with Corazón delago. Corazón freely, however, the Station was not aware of the extent to which Ellier engaged in political election activities until receipt of Reference, and a disposition with Ellier's Reference file is correct in considering him qualified for political action operations involving elections.

2. Perhaps Station Mexico's comments were colored by the desire not to leave Ellier's services too temporarily. His cover occupation as a professor at the National University makes it difficult for him to leave classes for TV assignments. He is also handling two Station operations. One of them, LDC, involves meetings with his Station officer at least three times a week. In some circumstances, such as the present student strike situation, Ellier and the Station case officer issue most often daily.

3. Also pertinent is the fact that HWY 6, Pichon has equal-quality stations in the election field which are certainly superior to Pichon's (see HA-00417 for Headquarters evaluation). Furthermore, Station Mexico has demonstrated that Pichon's assignment in Mexico was based on the promotion; thus he would be on hand for just such assignments. Although Station Mexico used Pichon, it has constantly been said that they may be called on to travel at any moment, so he is doing this date in absence of substitute. Finally, the Station feels strongly that Pichon as a parameter is better suited to such assignments.

4. In summary: Ellier will be available for any assignment in any area requested by Headquarters. At the same time, Station Mexico will appreciate Headquarters' consideration of Pichon for each assignment, for the reasons stated above.

William C. Curtis

17 May 1962

References: 5 + AND; 3 + Files.

24702/PIGMENTED. Sheet to be filmed upon return from the library. Redactors' copy.

Station name: 1067 99. Office location: Parker Avenue, Farmers Bldg., N.E., Radio Lab in Room 202A. Redactors' copy.
