3 August 1967

Subject: LIRING/3 Report on Developments in Niss's Orozco Case.

1. During the early morning hours of 1 August 1967, Rowton remained in constant contact with L/3, either through brief meetings with him or through LIRING/4, who acted as a cut-out at the phone of the safehouse. When Rowton telephoned LIRING/4 (1/4) at the safehouse at about 0730 on 1 August, she stated that L/3 had called a few minutes before and passed the message that “things were a little better, but he needed help.” Rowton knew that L/3 and Sergio Valdez, together with Raúl Moreno, were surveilling the Tacubaya apartment house in order to pick up Orozco (Crozco) if and when he tried to leave the premises. L/3 had told Rowton at an earlier meeting (0400) that morning that when Orozco refused to accompany him peacefully to a hotel, he gave Orozco two alternatives. First, he stated (bluffing) that he had a direct channel to FAR and would query FAR about Orozco and bring with him a FAR representative at 1000 that morning, and if Orozco had a clear conscience he would have nothing to worry about; secondly, if Orozco did not desire this, he could take 500 pesos, which L/3 put in an envelope, and leave the apartment for some other place of refuge. L/3 explained to Rowton that he hoped Orozco would take the second alternative so that he, Valdez, and Moreno could follow him or seize him as he left the apartment. L/3 asked Rowton to assist in this operation by providing a few pistoleros. Rowton, feeling that he might be able to arrange to take Orozco off L/3's hands once he was out of the apartment, provided the Station could provide a safehouse and several unilateral agents to guard Orozco and eventually interrogate him, promised to hire several pistoleros who would be unwitting of the true situation to help L/3 and his friends. L/3 also asked for a weapon, which he said might be necessary if Orozco gave him any trouble. Rowton, of course, refused to comply, saying that since Orozco was unarmed it was unnecessary at that time.

2. Then Rowton talked again to L/3 on the phone from the safehouse. The latter reported that things were still quite difficult. He explained that Orozco was still in the apartment and refused to answer the doorbell, obviously terrorized that L/3 had already notified the FAR of his whereabouts. L/3 reported in addition that Raúl Moreno had taken off in his car, apparently too tired to continue the surveillance; he and Sergio Valdez were consequently left alone without a car to surveil Orozco in the event he left the apartment. L/3 again appealed to Rowton for help. Rowton stalled since
