VI. 22 April 1976.

Military to investigate alleged activities of CIA.

[Interrupt] Caracas, 22 April—The Venezuelan Military Intelligence Directorate (DIN) has opened an investigation into the activities of two U.S. Treasury officials in Caracas who were accused in laws by a former CIA agent of plotting to promote a coup in Venezuela.

The daily El Telmo today publishes a front-page article that the government of President Carlos Andres Farcas says age cannot cover the lie to investigate the illegal activities reportedly being carried out in Caracas by American Douglas (Doug) Phillips and Fred Donnan. The two men have been identified by the U.S. Treasury as officials of the encoding agency, but a former CIA agent, Manuel de Castro, said (sold) yesterday in Miami that they are CIA agents.

Luis Diaz Soto and Ricardo Morales Invermote (also known as “ManUEL”), who were also accused by La Arma, are also being investigated.

Information official supports men.

[Post] Caracas, 22 April—Vice-Minister of State for Information Guide Groscouro today criticized the U.S. press for distorting news regarding the Panama Canal problem. During his course on international communications in which Venezuela and U.S. statesmen are participating, Groscouro declared his country's support for Panama in its hope of recovering its canal. The course opened yesterday.

He said: “This is an exceptional opportunity for Latin Americans here to speak freely, clearly and freely to the distinguished U.S. statesmen and columnists about the need for a friendly settlement between the United States and Panama in connection with the canal problem.”

He added: “This problem transcends the bilateral relations between the United States and Panama and has become a problem of continental dimensions on which Latin America has adopted a definite position it wishes to make known to the U.S. public.”

Interior official denies historical link.

Bogota, 22 April—Deputy Minister of the Interior Jorge Luis Brindis has denied that there is any connection between the kidnapping of U.S. industrialist Willie Rios, which took place here, and the association of Colombian labor leader Jose Maria in Colombia.

Added by source cited alleged links between the two events. Brindis said that so far he has discovered no connection.
