Field Reassignment Questionnaire.

Authentication of signatures and verification of items through 7 below. Name of employee (as stated on ID): James Flint. Date (through 22nd): 5-12. Name of supervisor (true). Date (from item 5-2): 27 December 1963.

Authorized to authenticate signatures and verify data in items nos. 1 through 7 below.

To be completed by employee.

1. Date of birth: 20 January 1924.  
2. Grade: GS-15.  
3. Current position title and grade: Operations Officer, GS-15.  
4. Service designation (if known): Paris.  
5. Current station or field base.  
6. Other duty stations or field bases during current tour: None.  
7. Date of PCS arrival in field or this project: 10 September 1963.  
8. Expected date of departure from field: September 1965.

7. Write a description of your major duties during the current tour of duty (see special note on Transmittal Form):

Staff agent assigned to a major overseas station, exploiting the cover provided by a major firm of technical periodical publishers. I take my instructions from a section chief within the station, and report in writing on the progress of my cover development and its operational exploitation.

For operational reasons, I develop and assess operational leads in the FI, CI and CA areas, principally against denied area targets. I also handle local investigations and such cases as the station determines will fit into my cover, or which I can otherwise handle in alias. I travel to other field stations to handle such tasks as they request or Headquarters directs. I handle all cover tasks as they appear.

8. Preference for next assignment:

A. Write a detailed description of the type of work you would prefer for your next assignment if it differs from that indicated in item no. 8 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choices.

I would like to continue to serve essentially in the same capacity as described above, although I would like eventually to add more supervisory and managerial functions to my responsibilities. I would like to expand the operating base provided by the cover organization by taking one or several journeymen case officers to work with me against both denied area and host country targets, and to make the cover facility and the access it provides of more versatile use to both the station and to KUDVE as a whole.

My second choice would be to return to Headquarters, and use the knowledge and experience I have gained in my present job to (1) select staff personnel who will be placed in non-official cover, (2) select the cover mechanisms proper, (3) train our personnel for the proper discharge of their total responsibilities while serving under such cover.

B. Indicate what training you believe you should receive in order to increase your value to the organization (refer to catalog of courses, if available):

The completion
