Continuation of Dispatch. Dispatch symbol and number: UFGA-19569 ATT PG5.

Sub-source stated that both Crizondo and “Jorge” work for the Pentagon and also mentioned Crizondo’s visits on 8 and 11 January, in which Crizondo attempted to disclaim any part for herself or “Jorge” in Orozco’s trip. Mrs. Orozco told this sub-source that she was going to put pressure upon these representatives of the Pentagon, Crizondo and “Jorge,” to either get her husband out of Cuba or, failing that, to buy him out.

25. “Jorge” paid an unannounced visit to Mrs. Orozco on 13 January. During this visit, he confided to Mrs. Orozco that his name was not “Jorge” but “Torres.” “Torres” said that his organization had not been interested in Vasquez but in two agents (he used the term “agentes”) who were in hiding in the same house with Vasquez. At which point Mrs. Orozco asked “Torres” how he happened to know about this if his claim were true that he had nothing to do with her husband’s trip. “Torres” made no reply, according to Mrs. Orozco.

26. Mrs. Orozco then commented that she knew from personal experience how difficult it was to raise even a few hundred dollars in the exile community. She said that she knew Crizondo did not have the $1,000.00 or more which had been spent for her husband’s trip. This led her to the conclusion, Mrs. Orozco said, that “Torres” and his organization had supplied the funds. Again there was no reply from “Torres.” On 11 January 1964, Mrs. Orozco told the same case source mentioned in the initial paragraphs that she had overheard a conversation between her husband and “Torres” a week or two before Orozco’s departure, in which “Torres” told Orozco that he could not support his trip “directly” but could provide money which Orozco could use to make his own preparations.

27. Mrs. Orozco said that she had had two specific proposals to bring up to “Torres.” One, that if word were received from her husband that he was still hiding out, “Torres’” organization send a boat in to help him exfiltrate. The other was that if it became confirmed that her husband was a prisoner, “Torres’” organization negotiate for his release through diplomatic channels. As part of this last proposal, Mrs. Orozco suggested that she be provided with sufficient money to travel to Mexico to take up her husband’s case personally with the president of Mexico. “Torres” said that he had to take the matter up with his organization. “Torres” re-emphasized that he personally had had nothing to do with her husband’s trip. He was still attempting to use all the resources at his command to find out what had happened to Orozco and, while he was very sorry about her husband’s misfortune, he stated that it had been Orozco’s own decision to go on this trip.

28. Upon leaving, Mrs. Orozco took note of
