to a high official. He does not know anything about the survivors. He gives the address of a Cuban who arrived in the "Cordillas" with a reputed foot, a volunteer in the Blue Division. (The father of the legionary, when questioned at the port, said he was lamed through an accident.) He confirms the stories about Guaiapo and Iague. In Vigo he heard the following story—The Governor of Burgos was imprisoned for black marketing and a son of his, a lieutenant in the army, went to Madrid to see Serrano Suñer (Serrano Suner), who refused to see him and told him to see his secretary; the lieutenant refused and was referred to the Aide-de-Camp. The Aide-de-Camp unfortunately asked him what he wanted and the Governor's son said, “I wanted to put two bullets in S. Suñer (S. Suner), but as I can't I'll put them in you instead”; he shot him and left him dead.

In Vigo a bad meal cost him 20 pts. He does not know anything about it, but the people say the Germans take everything. When we ask his opinion about the scarcity of rice, olive oil, etc., he ends by saying that he thinks too that the Nazis take it.

Future Prospects—He says that any regime will do as long as it is not this one. No blood to be spilt and “those in the wrong” to be pardoned. There are many people in the wrong who joined Franco, but have now repented. He says that those people fear the fall of Franco because there would be retribution, and many people would be killed, but if the Republic could come without bloodshed everyone would be delighted.

A cow is worth 5,000 pts. The Civil Guard turn a blind eye to the contraband sales of the peasants because it suits them.

Report No. 358.

Report from a youth of 17, a Cuban, born of Spanish parents, who was living in Santander for about ten years with his grandmother. He has no political convictions and in some respects is rather influenced by Nazi and reactionary propaganda. He is quite a wide-awake, intelligent boy. He talks with no reservations and seems to be telling everything he knows.

Attitude of the Spaniards to the War Against Hitler.—He says that in Spain there are two parties, one which supports the Germans and wishes for their triumph and the other which sympathises and hopes for the victory of the Allies. In the first class S. Suñer (S. Suner) stands out; it includes all the Falange, some generals, and the middle class, government employees, etc. The other class includes the majority of Requetes, the rich whose money is in London, the workers, and all the poor in general. He says that in Spain it is only permitted to speak in favour of the Germans, and that the partisans of the Allies speak only in secret and among trusted friends. With the passage of time, owing to the German campaign in Russia, which the Falangists said would end in a week, there is growing a loss of confidence in the German triumph, both among the partisans of the Allies, who were dispirited at the beginning of the Russian campaign, and among the supporters of Germany themselves. He says that in Spain, except for a couple of Falangist (Falangerstfools) fools, no one wants the war, not even the army chiefs, much less the soldiers. He really thinks that if they gave the order to march, no one would protest, but he does not insist on what would definitely happen. The German defeats in Russia, which are considered very important in Spain, have greatly contributed to raise the morale of the enemies of the Falange, who are now resisting it openly. (He refers to the Requetes and in general to the partisans of England who are very numerous.) The entry of the U.S. into the war was not considered very important, because German propaganda, which is very widespread, says that the submarines sank all the ships which came to Europe and that there was very little use in producing a quantity of war material if it never reaches Europe. He adds that the people realized that the Germans were
