5 March 1965

To: Chief, Finance Division  
Via: Contract Approving Officer  
From: Chief of Station, Mexico City ('exico City)

Subject: Inherent of ITINERTY as Independent Contractor.

1. The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project XXXXXX and is chargeable to DRAWN. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 March 1965, subject to termination by ODOKO upon 30 days’ actual notice.

2. Security approval: The appropriate security approval for the subject’s use has been obtained. Type: P.O. in process. Date:

3. Civilian: Subject is a foreign national.

4. Compensation: The subject will be paid 5,000 pesos per month. The approximate equivalent of this amount in PPP is 100 dollars. Subject will receive a Christmas bonus equivalent to one month’s pay. Other commitments in the nature of bonuses, gifts, paid vacations, etc., include small Christmas and birthday gifts. No commitment.

5. Taxes: Subject is not subject to PPP income taxes.

6. Quarters and/or subsistence: Subject will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence allowances. No commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to accommodate increased cost-of-living and quarters expenses.

7. Operational expenses: Subject will be reimbursed for operational travel and operational expenses. Any minor operational expense approved by the Case Officer, such as transportation to a meeting site, will be reimbursed. Subject has never submitted a claim for any such expense to date.

8. Commitments: The following has not been promised to the individual but may have to be met by ODOKO: Subject may have to be provided safe haven if his government becomes aware of his activities for ODOKO. This does not imply that he is involved in PORTO.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

10. Comment: This MDC was submitted because the subject’s salary was raised from $4,000 to $5,000 a month effective 1 March 1965. Authority: DIR 89922 (T. 5455) of 5 March 1965.

Signature: Case Officer  
Appointed: Sticaro L. C.osti  
Field Contracting Officer (FS)

MDC: Contract Approving Officer

Distribution: Three authentic copies to MDS; one to File P 6079; one to Support.

Date: 5 March 1965
