Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions. For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report. For the supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-170. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in Item B of Section A below.

Section A. General.

1. Name: Piccolo, Joseph S.
2. Date of birth: 8 Dec 1935.
3. Sex: M.
4. Service designation: DS.
5. Office/division branch of assignment: FI RI A&O.
6. Official position title: 0305.01 File Clerk.
7. Grade: GS-4.
8. Date report due in OP.
9. Period covered by this report: 4 Feb 1957 - 10 Oct 1957.
10. Type of report: Annual. Reassignment supervisor. Reassignment employee. Special (specify).

Section B. Certification.

For the rater: This report has been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not. Note: Joseph L. Piccoletto.

A. Check appropriate statements: This report reflects my own opinions of this individual. If individual is rated “I” in C1 or D, a warning letter was sent to him and a copy attached to this report. This report reflects the combined opinions of myself and previous supervisors. I cannot certify that the rated individual knows how I evaluate his job performance because (specify). I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands. Continued on attached sheet.

B. This date: 21 October 1957.
C. Type or printed name and signature of supervisor: Shirley Smith.
D. Supervisor’s official title: Desk Supervisor, RI/IN Section.

For the reviewing official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information which will lead to a better understanding of this report. Continued on attached sheet.

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the
