Keel 72-KICO-25

1 May 1965

10.5 contd.

His reply. He appears to be a little more radical than a few days ago, but “this is an observation of your friend, Marcio, which does not inspire much confidence in me. He talked to him (Boach).” Miric has known him (Marcio Mejia Riccart) for a year and is not inspired much by MKK either.

Will VKG be working this afternoon? No, VKG has to go out. They can talk in case there is any news. Before VKG goes out, VKG will call Miric. Fine.

11.0 In. Habana is calling VKG. Inge Rico (v) answers.

VKG takes the phone. Talks to Pundora. One of the National Directors of the Movimiento 14 de Junio called Mexico. This is Juan B. Mejia. He said that it is very important that they point out that the calumnies being circulated about them are lies—that they are attacking embassies. There is absolute order in the city. The armed civilians are patrolling the streets. There is no backing. They are still distributing arms, and they have absolute control of the city; there are two or three points of enemy resistance. The police are holed up and have not surrendered. They do not dare go out of their quarters either, and it is now only a matter of time before they surrender. The calm is interrupted because VKG cannot hear. VKG asks the operator to check another line. There is only one. The line has apparently gone out to Habana. The operator will call VKG back.

13.2 Out to 46-60-15. VKG with MO, who answers, for Jardon. He will not be in today. MO is Toflio. Radio Habana called VKG last night to see if VKG could talk to Santo Domingo. VKG got some direct information there. VKG did not talk directly, but indirectly. VKG was trying to give information to Habana, but the line was bad and could only send a small part. Asks MO if he could send an urgent message via New York to Presea Latina for Radio Habana. The only contact they have is via Mexico. The teletype of Presea Latina is out of order. They are calling MO’s office so MO can send data via Department of Communications. This is time-consuming. It does go out today, but not right away. VKG will see if the line gets better. He will call MO later if he needs this way to send information. Habana needs this information urgently.

14.0 In. Operator tells Inge Rico (v) that the Habana call is ready.

VKG takes the phone. The call goes through. Of about the 30 tanks Bossing had, nine are out of combat, 10 are in the hands of Wessling, and 11 are in the hands of constitutionalists. There are a series of Directors of the 14 de Junio Movement whom Juan B. Mejia states have disappeared, but there are a lot of people in the hills. Juan Mejia is in Santo Domingo, but other Directors are not there—some of the others. Wessling retired to San Isidro, but marines have entered into action and there are several dead. Marines have not respected the cease-fire. They have killed some constitutionalists, but some marines have also died. There is a cease-fire of O.A., but it has not been respected. VKG tells Pundora to underline the fact that there is complete order in Santo Domingo, that it is a lie that they have attacked embassies and the U.S. Embassy, that they are still distributing arms, that there are two or three points in the city where they are still fighting, but the seat of the city is in the power of the constitutionalists, who are maintaining complete order. Boach called.
