Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 003620.

Section A: General.

1. Name: Vitale, Guy.  
2. Date of birth: 16 Oct. 1917.  
3. Sex: Male.  
4. Grade: OS-8.  
5. SD: D.  
6. Official position title: Ops. Officer.  
7. Office/division/branch of assignment: DDP/S.A.S.  
8. Current station: Washington, D.C.  
9. Type of appointment: Initial reassignment; supervisor.

11. Date report due in Q.P.: 31 July 1963.  
12. Reporting period: 1 July 1962 to 30 June 1963.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Processes name traces and clearances. Traces and maintains agent 201 files. Rating letter: S/O.

Specific duty No. 2: Conducts research for preparation of reports and plans. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Maintains office files on a complex project. Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 4: Prepares cable or dispatch replies to name trace requests. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 5: Records Officer — insures compliance with CS records directives and authorizes destruction of CS documents. Rating letter: P.

Specific duty No. 6. Rating letter.

Overall Performance in Current Position.

Take into
