To: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

From: Chief of Station, JM/AV2

Subject: Engagement of Identity A 201-332678

1. Term and Project Charge. The subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under TYPIC and is to be charged against F.I. cost center. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 January 1965 and it shall continue until termination by either party upon fifteen days actual notice.

2. Security Approval. The appropriate security approval, to utilize subject as requested, has been obtained. OA requested per UFGA-17555, 3 September 1964.

3. Citizenship. The subject is a foreign national and was born on 6 May 1939 at Pinar del Rio, Cuba and resides at Identity B.

4. Compensation. Commencing on the effective date of this agreement, subject will be paid compensation at the rate of $244.67 per month. Such payments to be made following completion of satisfactory service.

5. Taxes. Subject will/Identity C be obligated to pay U.S. income tax. Taxes will/Identity B be deducted from the above stated paid compensation. Subject is F/M eligible for Social Security. # Identity C. Subject is married and has a total of 3 dependents other than himself. Subject's dependents are/are not residing in the U.S., U.S. possessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zone, or the Republic of Panama.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence. The subject will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence.

7. Operational Expenses. When properly authorized, subject will be reimbursed for:

a. Operational travel including mileage claims for official use of his personal automobile.

b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls, etc.

8. Other Commitments.

a. In case of capture, 50% salary until released or for two years, whichever is less.

b. In case of death, four months' salary to dependents.

c. In case of wounds, medical care.

d. With prior approval of CCS, a bonus may be authorized for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The amount of the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and results which were achieved but will not exceed $100 per single bonus payment.

9. Contingent Obligations. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the subject.

15 January 1966

Signed: Frederick J. Sigherud, Field Contracting Officer

Reviewed: Charles J. Francie, Contract Approving Officer

Reviewed: Joseph D. O'Keefe, Special Contracting Officer

Group: Ethio
