Memorandum for: Chief of Operations, DD/P

Subject: Project LIEMPTY (Approval). WH—Mexico City.

16 January 1958

1. The attached project, originating in WH Division, is presented for your approval for an initial period from 1 December 1958 through 30 November 1959. The project provides for the development of operational information through physical and photographic surveillance operations in support of other Mexico City operations, particularly those targeted at Soviet personnel and installations. Previously these operations were conducted for the most part under Projects LIPSTICK and LIJERSEY. They are incorporated in this new project because of the June 1958 compromise of LIPSTICK and to accomplish a more orderly administration of certain operational support assets.

2. Authority is requested to obligate $95,380 from the DD/P-WH Division operating budget: $65,580 for the current fiscal year and $29,800 in fiscal year 1960, subject to the availability of funds. These estimates include: (a) funds for the compensation of the presently recruited fifteen action and support agents, six new agents, and two principal agents: Raymond H. GERENDE (p) (LIEMPTY/1, formerly LIPSTICK/20) and Oliver G. SCANTLING (p) (LIEMPTY/2, formerly LIPSTICK/19); (b) funds for the compensation, travel, allowances and Headquarters’ training of two contract agents, Simon D. CLACKETT (p) and Wilma J. FIORDALISI (p), his wife, who are hereby transferred from Project LIMESA; (c) funds for operational expenses and equipment, including the purchase of four new or used vehicles as replacements for previously authorized vehicles and their maintenance, and a CP vehicle for SCANTLING; (d) the rent, utilities and maintenance of safehouses; and (e) other appropriate operational expenses.

3. The attached Field Project Outline, a covering memorandum from the Division, and an addendum to the Project Outline, review the personnel assets and facilities transferred from the LIPSTICK and LIJERSEY operations following the partial compromise of LIPSTICK in June 1958 and describe the concept of the physical and photographic surveillance operations to be conducted under this project directed primarily at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City. These surveillances provide photographs and other operational data of persons entering and leaving the building or present in the garden area, and through additional foot and mobile surveillances, investigative information concerning their contacts and destinations. Agent personnel, particularly the principal agents, are used also to conduct separate investigations, make recruit-approaches to
