Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 026090.

Section A: General. Name: Keenan, Thomas J. Date of birth: 8-19-1930. Sex: M. Official position title: Deputy Chief of Station. Office/civilian/DR of assignment: DDP/WII/3. Grade: GS-14. Type of appointment: Career, Reserve, Temporary, Career Provisional, Special (specify). Type of report: Annual, Reassignment Employee, Special (specify). Date report due in Q.P. Reporting period (prior to): 1 January 1972–18 May 1972.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert the rating letter which best describes the manner in which the employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise, indicating the number of employees supervised.

Specific Duty No. 1: Deputy Chief of Station and Acting Chief of Station in absence of the COS. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Supervision of Project covering penetration of government military services and principal political party of the opposition. Case officer for some of the agents in the project. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty Nos. 3–6: Rating letter.

Overall Performance in Current Position.
