Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective his relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described if applicable.

Mr. Hidalgo's fluent knowledge of Cuban Spanish, his previous experience in DD/P Cuban operations, and his broad knowledge of Cuba (people, geography, customs, etc.) made him a particularly useful and versatile operations officer during his assignment in the WH/SA counterintelligence operations section. As indicated in Section B (specific duties), he performed a wide variety of duties.

Mr. Hidalgo approached and performed his assignments with enthusiasm, keenness, dedication, and promptness. He displayed a particular talent for conducting debriefings, and it was in this type of activity that he performed best. He also writes well, which added to his debriefing capability as well as to his performance as a Headquarters desk operations officer in writing cables, dispatches, memoranda, etc. Mr. Hidalgo is cost-conscious and effective in the use of space, equipment, and funds. He does not hold a supervisory position.

Mr. Hidalgo performed most of his duties with a minimum of supervision. In a few instances, however, he had a tendency, in his eagerness and desire to get the job done well, to become impatient with the slow and deliberate pace of progress which is sometimes necessary in operational activities. In these few instances, Mr. Hidalgo's work required supervision by a senior operations officer.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date. Signature of employer.

2. By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employer, give explanation. Months employee has been under my supervision: 11 months. Official title of supervisor: WH/SA/CI/COPS. Typed or printed name and signature: Richard Tansing. Date: 23 March 1965.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of Reviewing Official: Mr. Hidalgo is a sound operations officer with native fluency in Spanish. His impatience is with administrative delays rather than with operational problems which he understands fully and handles well. He has had problems with his health, but these largely have been overcome and in the past 9 months have not impeded his operational usefulness. As of the date of this fitness report, he appears fully capable of handling any CI or FI operation assigned to him.

Date: 23 March 65. Official title of reviewing official: C WH/SA CI (WH/C/SP). Stamp: REZRACED by name and signature: Harold F. Swenson.
