Intelligence Information Report

Directorate of Intelligence

Country: Honduras.

Subject: Possible Reactivation of the Central American Common Market/Labor Not Endorsing Any Specific Political Party.

Report No. CO-B-321/33418-72.

Date distributed: 23 Nov 1972.

No. of pages: 2.

References CIRL No.: IRG-LA2-72.

Date of information: Early October 1972.

Place and date acquired by source: Honduras/1972.

This is unevaluated information.

Source: Naturalized US citizen who has worked and lived in Honduras for a number of years. He has numerous social contacts and business connections with officials of the government, the Armed Forces and the business community.

This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. Honduran merchants, industrialists and some of the people have been urging the revival of the Central American Common Market (CACM). To all intents and purposes it has been practically non-existent. Salvadorians and Guatemalans have also expressed the same desire.

2. In early October 1972, these urgings were taken into consideration by the Secretaryship of Central American Economic Integration (SIECA) (Secretaria Permanente de Integracion Economica Centro Americana). SIECA appointed a president, and a board of directors was selected. Eduardo Ortes (Ortés) Colindres, a Honduran lawyer, was named president. General Somoza (Samoza) of Nicaragua and General Oswaldo Lopez (López) Arellano approved the appointment of Eduardo Ortes (Ortés) Colindres so much that they offered to aid him in revitalizing the CACM. The board is composed of members from Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Honduras. They are authorized to represent their countries in all matters pertaining to the CACM.

3. It is interesting to note that in spite of Honduras having informally retired from the CACM, not only is the president a Honduran, but so is the president of the Central American Bank of Economic Integration (BCIE), with headquarters in Tegucigalpa, Honduras. The fact that General Somoza (Samoza) of Nicaragua and General Lopez (López) Arellano of Honduras have volunteered their assistance to Eduardo Ortes (Ortés) Colindres has led most of the Central Americans to believe that the CACM can once again be made active. If this does occur, it would indeed be most beneficial to the Central American countries concerned.
