CSI No. 10-5. Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5.

Security. Revised 17 July 1958.

3. Investigations

The function of performing all investigations in the United States in connection with approval matters, except for the check of certain Agency records, is reserved to the Office of Security.

4. Operational Approvals

a. The assembly and analysis of all file material (including the files of the Records Integration Division) in the Clandestine Services will be accomplished by professional personnel of the interested operating divisions under the technical supervision of the Counter Intelligence Staff and subject to spot check by the Counter Intelligence Staff. Certification will be made in each case by a responsible official of the requesting division that the material furnished is complete and accurate.

b. The requesting division will assemble any biographical data; information of investigative or security significance (such as additional names the subject may have used); information relating to character, reputation, politics, or other activities, favorable and unfavorable information or comments; background information; PRQ Part II or its equivalent (in duplicate); and field traces. Any information previously furnished by the subject concerning himself (such as a personal history statement, records of activities or employments, memberships in organizations, etc.) will be furnished verbatim. All pertinent information thus produced—including that resulting from technical interrogations, personal observation, field investigations, etc.—will be furnished to the Counter Intelligence Staff for necessary transmission to the Office of Security. It is also necessary to forward PRQ Part II to the Counter Intelligence Staff before an Operational Approval will be issued. The Counter Intelligence Staff will not forward PRQ Part II to the Office of Security. In rare, complicated, or sensitive cases the Office of Security, in coordination with the Counter Intelligence Staff, may wish actually to review the material of the Records Integration Division. A brief practical statement of the scope, nature, and geographical area of the proposed usage of the subject will be furnished to the Office of Security along with the other data.

c. The requester should also furnish to the Counter Intelligence Staff for transmission to the Office of Security any suggestions regarding the investigation to be conducted and any particular points to be emphasized in the investigation, such as special skills, abilities, and weaknesses of the subject. The requester should also indicate what would be the most plausible type of cover (i.e., general Government or commercial) to be employed in the conduct of the investigation and whether the subject has been briefed as to the fact of a pending investigation and, if not, why this is not feasible.

d. Following appropriate investigation and analysis of a case, the Office of Security will forward its recommendation to the Counter Intelligence Staff, with the investigative data enclosed. Upon receipt of this material.
