3. In 1969 Gerende separated from LIEMPTY-19 in what turned out to be the beginning of an extremely acrimonious divorce proceeding and fight for the custody of their three children. In December 1969 Gerende was put on half pay and had his ops duties suspended by the station because of his full-time involvement in legal matters surrounding the divorce. On 26 June 1970 Gerende and LIEMPTY-19 signed quit claims and secrecy agreements. Gerende was paid $10,000 and LIEMPTY-19 $2,500 as termination bonuses, and the payments were made on a monthly basis so that the station would have some control over the two and thereby keep their RTACTION status from emerging during the divorce proceedings. On 8 July 1970 LIEMPTY-19 unexpectedly appeared at HOS in an attempt to get a larger termination bonus. Subsequently LIEMPTY-19 and her children went to reside in The Hague, Netherlands, where she was paid the rest of her termination bonus via monthly checks sent to her brother in the HOS area. She was last reported to be working as a secretary at the U.S. Mission in The Hague.

4. According to Mexico City 19452, 10 April 72, the last station contact with Gerende was in May 1971, when he received the final installment of termination bonus. The cable noted that Gerende appeared financially pressed, but was giving daily English classes and renting his house to station staffer Jesse R. Gardalphe. There was no indication that either Gerende or his wife had violated their secrecy agreements. A statement was made that he no longer appeared to be drinking excessively.

5. It should be noted that Gerende's agent service record qualifies recommendation for his reuse by saying that he should have sufficient outside employment income to obviate the need for full-time RTACTION employment, and have resolved his personal problems. It would appear that except for a possible role in servicing specific ops support tasks, Gerende offers little potential for the station. Suggest that the station may wish to discuss Gerende with Theodore G. Kindopp (P) upon his arrival, since Gerende was his landlord during a previous stay in Mexico.

6. File: 201-119523. E2 IMPDET.

Orig: LAOMGSB (T-Chamberland); Auth: AC/LA/MGSB (Lehman); Rel: DC/LA/NR (Desmond).
