Economic Research Bureau, Unidad Revolucionaria (Unidad Revolucionar'), 10 S.E. 9th Street, Miami, Fla., U.S.A.

Cuban Trading

Your circulars regarding Cuban affairs and trading contain useful information, but it seems that neither you nor the American authorities are well informed. You know that, through American pressure, the Greek Government banned, several years ago, all trading with Cuba for Greek-flag vessels, except a few which were on time charter and were allowed to run their charters, which finished a very long time ago. Similarly, the Lebanese (Lebano) Government banned all trading with Cuba for Lebanese vessels a few months ago, and only allows, subject to special license, their ships to carry goods from and to countries of the Arab League. Both countries passed laws to this effect, and both state that infringement of the law carries very heavy fines against the owners and masters, and withdrawal of the flag.

That is what the laws say, but what is actually happening is another matter. Greek- and Lebanese-flag vessels have continued, since the ban, to be fixed, have carried and are carrying cargoes, through a number of owners, such as Frankistas (Franco Shipping Co. of Lisbon and Athens, per Purvis Shipping Co., London, their U.K. agents), who own about 35 Greek- and Lebanese-flag Liberties and similar vessels, also Vlassopoulo, Livanos, etc., also owning a great number of ships with these flags. They simply say they do not care a damn about the ban, and continue making fortunes in Cuban trading, the reason being that as most other law-abiding owners with these flags do not go to Cuba, the market remains wide open for these people.

They do not even try to hide; they just fix their ships, mostly in the Baltic Exchange, London, and Athens, but also directly with charterers in Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria (Boulbgaria), Russia, etc., and with Paris and Geneva. The Governments of Greece and Lebanon, who made the laws, just look on, doing nothing about it, and this means that the laws were made for paper value only. Some of these owners fix their ships by name and flag; others just fix a contract to be carried by ships to be nominated later, and later they nominate Greek and Lebanese ships.

Only the last few days, the following were fixed on the London market: Frankistas, 50,000 tons of sugar from Cuba to England for sugar merchants Tate and Lyle (Iyle), London, to be carried in two or three months, and Frankistas has already nominated the NICOLAOS F. (Greek flag) and San Spyridon (Lebanese flag), for 20,000 tons, and the remaining 30,000 tons are being nominated also for Greek- and Lebanese-flag ships. The same owner just also fixed one cargo for Malmo (Sweden), and one to Gdynia (Gdyhia), Poland. He is presently negotiating several other cargoes for his large Greek- and Lebanese-flag ships with the aforementioned concerns, including another contract with D’Enree of Paris, via Geneva.

The AIS GIANNIS (Lebanese) was fixed with Dreyfus, London, a few days ago, to carry a cargo of beans from Vera Cruz and Tampico to Cuba, and after for sugar to Europe. Another concern trading with Cuba is Tsavliris of London and Athens, but this firm is not trading with Greek- or Lebanese-flag ships.

The world thinks that you and American authorities know all that goes on in Cuba. If so, it means that neither you nor American authorities know and do not mind such trading with Greek and Lebanese (Lebano) ships if they know. We have given you some details of the latest fixtures. You and American authorities can check up without any trouble, and when they verify the correctness, they will no doubt protest immediately to the respective Governments, ask them to stop immediately the carriage of these cargoes and punish their owners, etc., as per their laws, and demand log books, freight accounts, etc., to verify all past trading, a tremendous one. If they break or you do not do anything about it, it will mean that both you and the American Government knew and know about this illegal trading and do not mind, in which case, we can more than assure you that within the
