Included GERENDE, who apparently became a specific target of Soviet investigation. It is unclear from the report of the Federal Security Police how far the Soviet investigation of GERENDE had proceeded. Nechiporenko was PNG'd from Mexico in March 1971. GERENDE's possible exposure to the Soviets could have been through his work on the Olympic Committee as a translator or through his work for the Station, which used him for a wide range of support tasks against the Soviet and Cuban targets.

B. KDFACTOR-7 (wife of GERENDE)

KDFACTOR-7 is a Dutch citizen and the former wife of GERENDE. She returned to the Netherlands in July 1970 with her children. She had served as a support agent assisting GERENDE. She is believed working, in general terms, of GERENDE's activities regarding the KDFACTOR Project. She was terminated on 26 June 1970 and signed both a secrecy agreement and quit claim. After termination it became apparent that she had considerable hard feelings toward both the Agency and GERENDE over financial problems between her family and GERENDE. While the Station was not directly involved in all the financial problems, the Station was involved in regard to her divorce claims against GERENDE's salary, a large part of which came covertly from the Station. In July 1970 KDFACTOR-7 came to the Agency Headquarters and complained about her financial settlement. In September and November 1970 she wrote two letters directly to the Agency on the same subject. In late 1970 she also asked a Hague Embassy political officer to put her in contact with the Agency; however, she did not tell him the nature of her business. In January 1971 the Agency contacted KDFACTOR-7's brother, a U.S. Army civilian with a "Top Secret" clearance living in Alexandria, Virginia, and was able to resolve the financial misunderstandings with KDFACTOR-7. In January 1971 the Hague Station reported KDFACTOR-7 had, without Station influence, obtained a job as social secretary with the Department of State at the Embassy. It is believed that this job has probably solved many of her financial problems and should also inhibit her from exposing her past work with the Mexico City Station, as such exposure could jeopardize her job. The Embassy in the Hague was briefed in general terms on KDFACTOR-7's background.

C. KDFACTOR-1

KDFACTOR-1 is a Mexican citizen and the brother-in-law of GERENDE. He was hired by the Station in 1956 to assist GERENDE in processing the photographic take of the KDFACTOR Project (at that time the LIPSTICK Project and later the LIEMPTY Project). KDFACTOR-1
