Banking Systems.

Show all the cash flow of the business in a clear and coherent way. How can I do that? A good system, no problems.

What is your estimate of the applicant's administrative ability? Do you presently know the procedures in your campus? To be a good campus administrant.

How long will it take to perform the task? What is your estimate of the time this will require in dress, attire, etc.? When can you start on this task? As soon as possible—if not yet, tell me when you can start.

What is your estimate of the applicant's time requirements? Please be a good campus administrant—if not yet, tell me when you can start.

Estimates are far from accurate, but I do need a quick idea.

What is your estimate of the applicant's capacity to advance? Do you perspectively see yourself as a supersender of others' carefulness? Do you need help in this task? If so, how can I help you? Please be a good campus administrant—if not yet, tell me when you can start.

I need an estimate for a new workcenter in my campus. Please help me.

What is your estimate of the applicant's relevant to what level of work is general? Do you think the applicant might be expected to hold in ten years? Please be a good campus administrant—if not yet, tell me when you can start.

Please help me with this estimate.

What is your estimate of the applicant's.

Estimate the potential of a new person to be employed on a specific task in your campus. How long will it take to perform the task? Please be a good campus administrant—if not yet, tell me when you can start.

How can I do that? How can I do that? Please be a good campus administrant—if not yet, tell me when you can start.

What is your estimate of the applicant's time requirements? Please be a good campus administrant—if not yet, tell me when you can start.

Estimates are far from accurate, but I do need a quick idea.

What is your estimate of the applicant's capacity to advance? Do you presently see the applicant as a good campus administrant, or do you need help in this task? Do you need help in this task? If so, how can I help you? Please be a good campus administrant—if not yet, tell me when you can start.
