Kool 72-AICO-31

6 May 1965

14.2 continued.

Long way off, so will advise him tomorrow. All right. That is what VAG needed.

Has VAG seen Roberto? No, VAG has not been able to locate him “in that place or his other place.” Yes, he goes out sometimes.

Did VAG pick up the tickets? No, VAG will pick them up tomorrow. Alberto did not have them with him today.

15.0 In. NO with VAG, who answers. (VAG recognizes NO’s voices.) NO asks what is new. Nothing. VAG has lost contact there (Dominican Republic). One cannot phone there unless in the U.S. Can’t they talk with Bosch in San Juan? Yes, but “these people” have not been able to talk to him. NO was phoning about the installation of Casafino since AP lost the information. NO was trying to locate them to get information.

How is NO’s health? Fine. Much better. When will they talk? When VAG likes. Who is covering CEPAL? A lot of people. VAG says they are expecting a declaration from the Mexican government for tonight—then there is a rumor that it will break with the O.E.A. VAG thinks it is too beautiful to be true. NO thinks it is possible—at least have it as a rumor. Handle it as an inside rumor, not to have exterior reactions. The President’s declaration in CEPAL was good, but it is late.

When will they see one another? VAG says it is hard this week. They could see one another next Monday; NO will phone VAG at noontime on Monday.

NO says that VAG should advise NO of any good contact. Yes. They will publish it.

16.0 In. Marcin (Majia Heart) with VAG, who answers. Greetings. VAG is busy writing against the Yankees.

Mark talked to Casafino yesterday. Mark has some news, but the most important of it cannot be published. Casafino is also going to call Mark today at 1700. Ask to borrow VAG’s recorder so they can record this conversation. Sr. Arredondo (ph.) could come by for it. Of course. If VAG wants to ask any questions, let Mark know. What is Mark going to ask? Casafino is going to phone Mark because, according to what “we talked about yesterday,” he will probably designate Milio Cordere here and us (Mark) as Ambassador in the United Nations. Moreover, there are things they have pending that they want us to do here. Doesn’t Mark have anything which is not published? They would have to talk about it because he has not read the newspapers. He doesn’t know when it has been published. Mark should say what Casafino said and VAG will see. Mark will tell VAG everything after he talks to C. the second time. Virginia is going out now. Or VAG could go over there when the conversation is to take place. VAG has to go out. It should be in a few minutes. Where will it take place? Heriberto Prieto 1421, apartment 10. VAG will go by there. Mark offers to pick him up, since they are going for the recorder. Fine. Will be there in 3 minutes.

17.0 In. Irina with VAG, who answers, for Inge (Rico).

She takes the phone. Greetings. Irina had to go out. They can go another day to see about dresses and children. They can see one another today.

17.5 Out to 46-66-93. VAG with Beschaps, who answers. VAG says:

Kool 72-AICO-31
