3. On Friday, 24 February, PARMERS spent most of the day visiting alone with LITAMIL-9 at the latter's apartment. By the end of the day LITAMIL-9 had softened a little and had revealed some of the personality traits mentioned below. LITAMIL-9 also agreed to communicate with his Case Officer through open code in letters to his brother in Mexico City. He was also willing to meet inside KUBARK, preferably if the contact was a diplomat but not Cuban. He agreed to take a set of cuff links as bona fides. As a suggestion, he mentioned that his friend, the Swiss Ambassador, now serving in Madrid, Spain, would be an ideal contact. In revealing how such a contact could be performed and in discussing LITAMIL-9's modus vivendi in Cuba, there was considerable discussion concerning operational security and clandestine procedures LITAMIL-9 could apply while in Cuba.

4. During this meeting, LITAMIL-9 also presented, in logical sequence, his reasons for believing that he would return to Mexico City. Basically, he feels that between the fact that he has many contacts in Mexico City, where he has lived and worked for many years, and the fact that his sister-in-law in Cuba has a responsible position with considerable influence in the Castro Government, LITAMIL-9 will be reassigned to his present post in Mexico City after three months of leave, consultations, and training in Cuba.

5. The third meeting occurred in the evening of 25 February, in a car pickup situation, with the Case Officer present. This time, LITAMIL-9 was less willing to communicate with KUBARK while in Cuba than he had been during the previous meeting, but with some reluctance, agreed to the use of open code and to be contacted by some diplomat. This meeting, therefore, was a routine operational meeting, with his Case Officer in charge.

6. Based upon their three meetings, PARMERS formed the following opinions of LITAMIL-9: He is a shrewd opportunist, willing to collaborate with KUBARK against the Castro Government, but not to the point where his personal security is endangered. He dislikes the Castro Regime because it has fumbled so badly, and because the current Cuban officials are crude and incompetent. He greatly admires the American people, but definitely feels that we are merely concerned about our own national security and well-being. LITAMIL-9 owes his first loyalty to the fine arts, has little patriotic feeling toward Cuba, since he has lived in Mexico for so many years, and has declared himself to be a resident of Mexico. He is now serving the Cuban Government simply because he had an opportunity, through his sister-in-law, to achieve official status and income and still remain in Mexico where most of his
