Continuation of dispatch. Dispatch symbol and number: HMA-34484.

Surveillance by the LIEMBRACES. The results, at least in the PBRUMEN phase of this operation, have been unspectacular so far. The main usefulness of LIRING-3 and LIRING-4 has been a) as access agents to LIRING, although this has been largely reduced to the LIRING Consulate, and b) to introduce Wallace B. ROWTON to visiting PBRUMEN officials and members of the local leftist community with access to PBRUMEN and LIRING. A major effort was started recently to take this operation up one more notch and, taking advantage of a recent crisis in the relations between LIRING-3 and LIRING-4, send the latter to PBRUMEN on a mission to assess and hopefully recruit new sources of information. The exploitation of LIRING-3's contacts with representatives of the Guatemalan FAR rebel movement was the object of separate correspondence. LIRING-3's renewed contacts with these representatives do not at this time involve PBRUMEN, although the latter clearly supports at least some of their activities.

2. Forwarded under separate cover are fifteen reports prepared by Wallace B. ROWTON on the activities of LIRING-3, LIRING-4, and some of their contacts from late January to 31 March 1968. The Station has noted Headquarters' desire for more frequent progress reports per reference A. It felt, however, that in this case partial reporting of LIRING-4's difficulties in obtaining a PBRUMEN visa, by far the most important aspect of this operation during the period under review, could have been misleading, as the situation changed several times and LIRING-4 did not really know what to expect from LIRING from one meeting with its representatives to the next, not to again mention the ups and downs of the LIRING-3/LIRING-4 relationship, which hit a new low during this period. The Station would like to point out in passing that, in addition to cable reporting and dispatches transmitting ROWTON's contact reports, the operations in which LIRING-3 and LIRING-4 are involved are reviewed in some detail in the overall monthly report submitted by the PBRUMEN Section of this Station.

3. The last time LIRING-4 accompanied LIRING-3 to PBRUMEN, she obtained an entry visa in a few days. LIRING-4 thus felt that as an ex-employee of LIRING with good connections in PBRUMEN and LIRING she would obtain a new PBRUMEN entry visa fairly easily. Entry visas are now quite a bit more difficult to obtain, however, for PBRUMEN nonofficial citizens abroad. It also appears that the LIRING staff did not really know what to make of LIRING-4's stated desire to return to PBRUMEN for an extended period of time, as this was obviously based on a domestic quarrel. LIRING-3 and LIRING-4 have had other quarrels, and the LIRING staff may have thought that this last one would subside and that LIRING-4 would postpone or cancel her plans for going to PBRUMEN. It was to convince the LIRING staff that the difficulties with his wife were serious that LIRING-3 first went to LIRING. In a maneuver to further convince the LIRING employees, particularly LIRING-2 and LIRING-9, that LIRING-4 seriously wanted to go to PBRUMEN as a result of domestic problems, ROWTON decided to have LIRING-3 openly question LIRING-4's right to take their child with her. It must be remembered that, in Mexico, a wife cannot leave the country, and especially take a child with her, without the express and official consent of the husband. This little scenario appears to have been well played. On the other hand, it did not help LIRING-4 obtain a visa any faster. LIRING-2 appeared to be waiting, among other things, for LIRING-3 to arrive at a decision regarding their child acceptable to his wife. LIRING-3 finally “agreed” to let LIRING-4 take the child at his 26 February meeting at LIRING. Two days before, LIRING-4 had been told by LIRING-2 that the
