Information Report. Central Intelligence Agency.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Law, Title 10, U.S.C. Sec. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

Country: Honduras. Report No. 00-B 321/01013-68. Subject: Proposed Steel Plant and Paper and Pulp Plant. Date distributed: 19 January 1968. References: CIRL C-DC7-53900 (2356). Date of information: January 1968 and earlier. Place and date acquired: Honduras, January 1968 and earlier.

Source: Cuban national, an engineer, who has worked and lived in Honduras for the last two years. During this period he has developed social and business contacts with officials in the government, the armed forces and the business community. This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. Negotiations are going on with Mexico for the establishment of a steel plant in Honduras. The principal force behind the establishment of this industry is (fmu) Alduvin, an engineer with the “Banco Central.” Alduvin studied in Mexico, and is a very intelligent and capable person. Alduvin was Minister of Public Works during the regime of Villeda Morales. At that time he was a supporter of Brown and Root, a US company with offices in the country. Though Alduvin was instrumental in granting several important projects to the company he now criticizes it as another extension of “Yankee Imperialism.”

2. A US firm, International Paper Company, has been selected as one of the major stockholders, with participation of ADEIA and the Government of Honduras, for the establishment of the paper and pulp plant and for the exploitation of lumber reserves in the country. The paper and pulp plant is tentatively to be established at the junction of the Aguan and Mame rivers. The area selected by the government for the exploitation of lumber reserves covers approximately 15 thousand square kilometers in the departments of Olancho and Yoro. The government is going to face a problem trying to determine the ownership of property in the area. I estimate that it will take three years to survey the boundaries and to set landmarks in the area.

3. Two access roads will be constructed to serve the area. One, “Carretera del Projecto Forestal de Olancho,” will connect the paper plant with the forest reserves, extending from Mame to Salama, a total of 130 kilometers. The other road will connect the plant to the coast, from Mame to the port of La Ceiba, a total of 100 kilometers.
