31 July 1972

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Final Contact with QRPHONE/1 in New York City

1. As arranged previously, I met with QRPHONE/1 at the WOMOLD safe site in New York City from 1000 hours to 1230, 26 July. The meeting was intended to wrap up loose ends, convey our decision to pursue the STFLIMFLAM program (providing QRPHONE/1 himself was amenable), and to make clear that we expect measurable operational progress within the next year.

2. Although QRPHONE/1 had been debriefed on 24 July by other Headquarters officers regarding his trip around WOCORK, I asked him to review it again for my information so I could put it clearly in perspective as it related to our plans for him in the coming year. I'll not bother with the details here because such have already been written for the record elsewhere, but suffice it to say that QRPHONE/1 was both pleased and relieved at the reception he got from his old contacts because of the reflection these receptions had on his own bona fides. The allegations of his BKTRUST affiliation which had floated through Europe were never mentioned by his WOCORK contacts; on the contrary, at least one of them urged QRPHONE/1 to return soon to WOCORK because this is where the action is. This same individual gave QRPHONE reading materials on the Communist dialectic and urged him to study them closely. This greatly impressed QRPHONE because it showed how accurate were the briefings given him by the Headquarters STFLIMFLAM officer and demonstrated that we knew our tactics.

3. I then reviewed with QRPHONE/1 the reasons for our long close scrutiny of him and his performance these last several months followed by our selection of him for advance training, testing, and redirection in the strong hope we had that he would accept this new task because of its priority importance to our national collection requirements. I asked

Under Secretary General rescription of E. O. Whiten and General Catesr.: § 52(1), (2), (3) or (4) above (or any). Approved Letter No. 28. APOIR (unless indicated, first date or email).
