Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress, strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employ improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if possible, his potential for development and for future personnel activities.

Shows skill and good judgment in extracting data on a wide range of technical subjects from Soviet documents, which he scans with great rapidity. His written reports based on this material present good intelligence information; however, they suffer slightly from small inaccuracies in syntax and grammar, and there are occasional passages where the meaning is vague or the logical connection between facts has not been made clear. This type of passage may be further complicated by a lack of native familiarity with the precise English idiom and his tendency sometimes to use the wrong connective. However, any such failings in the use of English are entirely offset by his superior knowledge of Russian. His promptness in submitting reports and in completing other assignments is exceptional. Maintains close relations with consumers and goes out of his way to fill all their requirements to the letter. His greatest asset to the section, branch, and division is his native Russian fluency and his knowledge of the USSR. He not only serves as consultant and authority on the Russian language for the section and branch, but takes on extra jobs as translator or interpreter as required by the division or the agency. His natural intelligence has enabled him to do on-the-spot or rush jobs in fields in which he has had no background. He continues to learn and to retain his knowledge. During a period when his well-deserved promotion was blocked because of the lack of a slot, a situation which was unfortunate but the fault of no one in his office, he became a bit rebellious and reluctant to take on extra duties which he otherwise would have accepted. He feels, and rightly so, that he is capable of more challenging and perhaps more interesting assignments which require the use of spoken Russian. Every opportunity has been given him to find such a permanent assignment, and he has just been on an extended stay involving such activities.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

By employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date. Signature of employee. 29 Oct 1959.

By supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 3 yrs, 4 mo.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

If report is not being made at this time, give reason.

Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (Specify).

Date. Official title of supervisor. Type or printed name and signature: Rosamund E. Deutsch.

28 Oct 1959. Chief, Industry and Materials Section, USSR Branch.

3. By reviewing official.
