U.S. Officials Say Itkin Was an Agent, Reporting to F.B.I.

Figure in Marcus Case Said to Have Risked Life to “Stand Up to Mafia”

By Barnard L. Collier

Mr. Itkin, one of six persons arrested in the Marcus kickback scheme, has been described by Federal officials as an undercover agent who infiltrated the world of organized crime and reported regularly to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Mr. Itkin, now under 24-hour armed guard by Federal marshals, is to be the Government’s key witness in a Federal conspiracy case. He is a co-defendant along with former Water Commissioner James L. Marcus; a reputed Mafia leader, Antonio (Tony) DiBella; Corallo; Henry Fried, owner of a New York construction company; Daniel J. Motto, a union leader; and Charles J. Rappaport, a former law partner of Mr. Itkin.

Mr. Itkin—called one of the most important Government informers in recent years—was described as having provided undercover information to the F.B.I. while he engaged in numerous private business ventures around the world.

There is no solid information on his motives for becoming an informant. However, one high Federal official has called the 41-year-old Manhattan lawyer a “strange” man who risked his life to “stand up to the Mafia.”

As Tension in Other Cases

Federal officials disclosed that Mr. Itkin was providing the Government with large quantities of “inside” information on underworld characters. A former client of Mr. Itkin’s had indicated that he is a potential witness, they say, in various criminal cases apart from the Marcus affair.

These cases are said to involve labor racketeering, gambling, bankruptcy, embezzlement and a whole range of other crimes at the city, state and federal levels, some with international dimensions.

The story of Mr. Itkin’s activities as an undercover agent was pieced together by The New York Times—and then confirmed by Government officers after extensive interviews and a search of public and private documents and letters in New York, Washington, the Caribbean area and elsewhere.

Among his activities as an undercover agent, Mr. Itkin was involved in numerous international business ventures.

Some of his involvements

These associations and business ties—at least those indicated by the available documents and by people who are willing to talk about him—show that his involvement was not only with Mafia figures like Corallo and public figures like Mr. Marcus, but with politicians in the Dominican Republic (Democratic Republic), a component in the election from Miami, businessmen in Manila, union delegates in New York and gamblers in London.

Investigations are already proceeding on the basis of interrogations on Page 19, Column 2.
