5. Periquin, who was in charge of the PM in the Pétanville section of Fort-Marguerite, was dismissed by Duvalier (Duvallier) because the President suspected him of aiding the Dominique clique. Dominique, an Army officer and non-commissioned officer of Duvalier, was offered a military attaché position either in Spain or Italy, which he refused to accept because his wife is reluctant to leave Haiti at this time. This situation is complicated by the decision of Duvalier's wife to side with her daughter. The rift in his own family, as well as the attempt of his enemies to disrupt the celebration of his 60th birthday and the 10th anniversary of his taking office, prompted Duvalier to remark that the only man he trusts is Gracia Jacques, commander of the Presidential Guard. This statement antagonized even those who have hitherto been loyal to Duvalier. Moreover, even the most faithful Duvalier supporters now fear for their lives. Colonel Caillard, who is in charge of the Coast Guard, bitterly complained to Charles about Duvalier's remark and mentioned to the banker that he and his friends were ready to set up a military junta.

6. In addition to the Coast Guard ships, Charles would have the use of Vilaire's converted LC, which normally plies the waters between Jamaica and Fort-de-France carrying flour, fuel oil, etc. Vilaire is convinced that Charles has no choice but to carry on the coup with or without foreign help and that his chances of success are good since several of the new Duvalier appointees to key military and civilian positions are Charles' cronies. Vilaire feels that Charles must not stay long since the morale of many of the military and civilian supporters of Duvalier was at an all-time low and the Haitian Treasury is almost empty. Since Duvalier has been unable to obtain foreign capital, he has again resorted, through his Secretary of State for Commerce and Industry, Robert Jean-Starré, to a shakedown of commercial and industrial enterprises. In a circular letter dated 2 May 67, the Secretary appended a request for “voluntary contributions as a fitting homage to the Resolute President for Life, Chief of the Duvalierist Revolution.” (A copy of the letter is attached.)

7. Jean-Pierre and Henri Michel, confidants of Duvalier in charge of the Étienne de Tourne and his Alingóteot, are among the steadfast supporters of the president. Both men have stolen considerable amounts of public funds and succeeded in smuggling some of their money out of Haiti.
