35. After adequate supplies are no longer available, the city has to be abandoned for the time being and given the name of an independent city, which is not to be confused with the rest of the city. In this connection, it should be observed that there is great difficulty in effecting any kind of reconstruction in such a large area, since it is extremely difficult to separate buildings from each other. To take care of this, houses which are used as reservoirs for water must be removed gradually and carefully. The number of people who can do this work will depend upon the number of teams available. The greater the number of teams, the larger the water tanks have to be constructed. The teams must also have the space necessary for the storage of water and for the operation of the tanks. This will be a problem at the end of August; it had been thought that the supply would be sufficient up to September.

Immediate Situation

36. Bombing destruction. London has now entered a new phase of war. The first, and so far most characteristic, activity has caused a good deal of destruction. As a result of the massive destruction of the material that is now being destroyed, and of the high mortality rate, the loss of life is already very considerable. The number of dead and missing is probably increasing all the time. There are many other factors to be considered. The London fire was the first, and probably the most serious, fire during the War. London, normally a capital of 100,000 and more, was reduced to a population of about 10,000, mainly by the loss of life.

37. The municipal gas distribution system consists of a series of pipes, of which the diameter in the consumer's house is 0.5 inches.

38. The gas distribution network in London is made up of pipes of various diameters, mostly 0.4 inches, which carry gas to the consumer's house. The diameter of these pipes is variable, varying from 2 inches to 15 inches. According to official figures, in one year up to September 30th, 1914, gas was distributed through the streets of London to a population of 20,000,000 people, that is, about three-quarters of the population of London. This distribution was done by means of high-pressure pipes, of which the average length was 1,800 feet, and their diameter was 0.12 inches. The pipes were laid through the streets of London in a systematic manner.

39. It is a fact that the Gas Department in England is now a separate department of the government. According to official figures, 4,460,000 cubic metres of gas are consumed annually, or about one-fifth of the total consumption of the country. The gas is distributed throughout the country in the same way as oil, that is, the consumer pays for his gas at the pump and receives it in the form of gas.
