Classified message. STR. Action. Date. Info. File. Routing. Incoming.

To Lima, DIR, Bern, Pari, Mexi.

Cite ZURC 0227.

Alejandro (ALFJANDRO) Augusto (AUCUSTO).

Numbers TAHIGRI-AREN.

LIMPADOR TYPIC DYVOUR INK, ref. Pari 5091 (not to Mex).

1. Following is subject ref story on activities since went AWOL from Fort Ord (FORT ORDM).

A. Upon hearing that uncle and aunt seriously ill, subj left by plane via Mexico City to Lima, arriving 6 Sept 63. Uncle Ernesto Velarde died October 63, aunt Elena Arenas de Velarde died 3 Dec 63. On his parents' urging, subj wrote Pres. Kennedy immediately on arrival Lima. Nov 63 received reply via Col. Benson, Milatt at Lima. However, did not see Col. Benson until February or March 64.

B. January 64 subj accidentally met longtime friend, Ernesto Ayza del Risco, DOB ca. 38, Spanish cit. Subj first discovered that Ayza involved with Communists in March 63 while subj was visiting Peru. At that time a Lima policeman was run over and killed by secretary general of Peruvian Young Communist Group, who was driving a car owned by Ayza. Ayza suggested subj not return U.S. but go Cuba instead and introduced subj to Renteria, who “would arrange everything.”

C. Between January and March, subj saw Renteria approximately every two weeks. At each meeting Renteria claimed plans to go to Cuba were progressing. During this period subj thought Renteria “just making talk.” However, in March Renteria announced plans completed, and they ready to go. Then introduced subject to Castro Lavarello, Salomon Bolo Hidalgo and General Pando.

D. Subj and Renteria travelled together to Mexico City, arriving 1 April. Renteria carried sealed letter from Lavarello to “Senor Jordan,” which Renteria was to deliver at Curan Embassy, Mexico. At this point in interview, subject volunteered additional information on Jordan: Jordan is G-2 officer. Subj believes that Jordan is man in charge of Cuban program to train other Latin American nationals in subversion and guerilla warfare. Since subj at no time in Cuba was in company of other than Peruvians, this is logical misunderstanding. Subj met Jordan on several occasions. However, Jordan held substantive discussions only with Renteria, who, during entire time and on all matters, was considered subj supervisor and handler. Subj paid own fare from Lima to Mexico. Gen. Pando, through Lavarello, gave Renteria and subj each 2000 soles pocket cont...

P-7365. Incoming.
