Office of Personnel.

3. Indicate the approximate number of months the rated employee has been under your supervision.

4. Comments concerning potential.

Mr. McCord has a good educational background, well-rounded personality, which combined with his organizational ability and further experience should equip him for a senior position in this Agency.

Section II. Future Plans.

1. Training or other developmental experience planned for the individual.

McCord should continue in his present assignment as Deputy Chief/SRS for at least two more years.

McCord wishes to continue his study of Russian.

2. Note other factors, including personal circumstances, to be taken into account in individual's future assignment.

Section I. Description of Individual.

Directions: This section is provided as an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to most people. To the left of each statement is a box under the heading “category.” Read each statement and insert in the box the category number which best tells how much the statement applies to the person covered by this report.

Category number:

X. Have not observed this; hence can give no opinion as to how the description applies to the individual.

1. Applies to the individual to the least possible degree.
2. Applies to the individual to a limited degree.
3. Applies to the individual to an average degree.
4. Applies to the individual to an above-average degree.
5. Applies to the individual to an outstanding degree.

4. Able to see another's point of view.
5. Can make decisions on his/her duty as needed.
5. Has initiative.
5. Is analytical in his work.
5. Strives constantly to meet and achieve goals.
4. Addresses people in a positive way.
5. Has high standards of accomplishment.
5. Shows originality.
5. Accepts responsibility.
4. Adjusts his efforts.
4. Responds well to supervision.
5. Offers new job outdoor staff support.
4. Is effective in discussions with associates.
4. Implements decisions regardless of our feelings.
5. Is thoughtful of others.
5. Does well under pressure.
5. Displays judgment.
