Thing which hinders him is his lack of confidence. Time will probably take care of his improvement.

5. General Remarks:

He was amazed that he was in the U.S.A.; though he was here, he stated that he could not believe that he was here. The relative seclusion during the past two weeks did not reassure him in any way that he definitely was in the U.S.A. Many of his ideas regarding America seemed to be impressions that he obtained from seeing American films while in France. Thus he has a little difficulty trying to place the America that he has observed now with the preconceived ideas that he already has of America.

While in town on 23 April, his only remark about Washington was that he did not see any exceptionally beautiful (Hollywood types). He also stated that the American male, i.e., the American soldier in 1945, was a nice, strong, healthy type of male.

En route from the airport, Dave wore his blackout glasses until we reached the District line. While crossing the South Capitol Street Bridge (South Capital Street Bridge), Dave sensed that we were crossing the bridge because of the vibrations caused by the car passing over the steel mesh on the bridge, and stated that we must be crossing the Potomac River now. Another question was how far the airport was from the house where we were headed. The undersigned agreed that we were crossing the Potomac and that the area we were going to was over fifty miles from the District.

By nature Dave is very curious. To satisfy his curiosity, he uses various ruses in order to elicit information regarding his status and future.

Whenever the undersigned went for a walk with Dave, usually before and after meals, the former expected to be asked numerous personal questions. Once or twice, Dave mentioned that he did not know why he was here, what kind of job he would have, etc.

Dave was assured that this sounded somewhat irregular. The undersigned felt that he must have been told something somewhere along the line. At this point, Dave would stop asking questions. Later on, the undersigned learned that Dave was very talkative with Tom Miller (alias) and told the latter the whole story about what was told to date. It is assumed that Dave was trying to show Tom that he knew everything and thus hoped that Tom would fill in any little details that Dave would omit. These were two different approaches that Dave used in trying to elicit information from the undersigned and Tom Miller.

Dave seems to be quite a perfectionist when it comes to mechanical things. While at the Log Cabin, Dave tried on a number of occasions to adjust the TV set. Dave could not understand why the TV set sometimes would not function properly, particularly whenever a passing plane would go over; it would interfere with the set's operation. This account did not suit him, for he had to try and adjust it, so as a result more time was expended on adjusting than watching TV. He was quite irked because he felt that the TV was malfunctioning.
