5. The following are preliminary specific requirements on the Pion Institute, which will be supplemented at a later date if the operation necessitates. They may assist in case of failure or in assessing subjects' potential to fulfill requirements of this nature.

a. Obtain information concerning new welding apparatus for, as well as new applications of, the following welding and cutting technology:

(1) Electron beam welding or cutting.

(2) Friction welding.

(3) Ultrasonic welding for thin wire and thin strips—metal materials.

(4) Explosive welding.

(5) Plugs are—as used in cutting, coating, and welding operations.

(6) Varnish coatings associated with welding.

b. What types of automatic welding equipment, using an inert gas such as argon, has the IAS Institute developed? Give any details concerning the above equipment, such as model designation, characteristics, uses, by whom designed, and where the equipment was sent.

c. Is the IAS Institute working on the solution of problems related to the welding of special alloys, particularly aluminum, titanium, and stainless steel? Which laboratories of the IAS Institute are working on these problems? Who are the engineers and designers working on these problems? Two alloys are to be used in the Soviet missile program: 7077 aluminum alloy and E1-385 stainless steel.

d. If the course elicits any information from Soviets at the Institute as to problems related to welding technology in the missile and space programs, which was covered by its courses, they should try to determine what work these two personalities performed to merit receiving swaps and also work performed by other engineers on detached duty to plants as indicated above.

e. Identify other facilities (plants and institutes) with which the IAS Institute is associated, and in what number. Identify personnel of the welding institute who are on detached duty at other facilities. Identify locations of their detached duty; the facility, purpose, and dates of each stay. Note: For example, two engineers from the Pion Institute received swaps in October 1969 for participation in the equipping of the newly restructured metallurgical plant used in Stalag IV, a plant possibly involved in LOM production.

f. In reply to paragraph v of reference, both of the books which were forwarded to headquarters for evaluation are already available to appropriate CMEC officials.

g. Requests for extension of POs on Pruschino-CMPUs border (PA expiring January 1971) and Gulldomu-Solmaz Fumus (PO expired 3 January 1973) have been initiated. The PO on Petrojev-CMPU border has been cancelled. Please advise if the station makes use of the PO which expired in December 1971, for Howard Carl WSDAC to be extended.

h. In accord with a fortuitous, more stringent legal travel policy, it is advised that the station allows provision of essential information represented by PL I and II before the existing POs expire. To the same rule, attention is directed toward the security status of Pruschino-CMPU border, who can exhibit an attitude worse for his ties with the Soviets than he is open to suspicion. It must henceforward be understood that the BOU is one of the correspondents between Church and institute.

ELEKTA A. JÄRVI SAARIO
