Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain reticences given in Section B so as to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and rate of conspicuousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

There has been little development of Subject's performance since the submission of his last report covering the period through 30 September 1970. The highpoint of his activities during this period, as it has been throughout his tour, has been his management of a sensitive technical operation which has been a consistent producer of unique and high-level intelligence. This has been a good performance on Subject's part, indicative of his professional capability to conduct clandestine operations.

Subject's writing ability has improved during this period, and there is little doubt that his efforts in this regard are paying off. Further experience should see continued improvement of his writing skills.

As Subject's first tour comes to a close, he can look back on a generally strong performance in all phases of his operational activity on behalf of the Base's objectives.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee.

I certify that I have been shown Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 3 May 1971. Signature of employee: /s/ Daniel Flores.

2. By Supervisor.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 20.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Date: 3 May 1971. Official title of supervisor: COB, Guayaquil. Type or printed name and signature: /s/ Robert Fabbini.

3. By Reviewing Official.

Comments of reviewing official.

I concur in the ratings and remarks of the supervisor. During his first tour abroad, Subject has done very well in his main fields of activity. His outstanding attribute at the moment is his persistence not only in going after operational targets but also in improving himself. He has encountered some difficulty in presenting his ideas in written form, but he has faced up to this problem and, as the rating officer notes, has made significant improvement.

Date: 17 May 71. Official title of reviewing official: COS, Quito. Type or printed name and signature: /s/ Paul V. Harwood.
