Date of info: Mid-late May 1967. Place and date acquired: 15, 22 May 1967. Country: Haiti. Subject: Further Plans of Clemard Joseph Charles to Overthrow the Haitian Government, His Military Supporters, and His Bids for Support from Haitian Exiles. Report No. CS DB-312/01625-67. Date distributed: 8 June 1967. No. pages: 3.

References.

This is unevaluated information. Source gradings are definitive. Appraisal of content is tentative.

Source: A foreign businessman with wide contacts in Port-au-Prince who is believed to report accurately what he learns. This information was obtained from a close friend of Charles who probably was aware that it would reach U.S. officials.

1. Clemard Joseph Charles, president of the Commercial Bank of Haiti, claims that since Maj. Colcou (fmu),¹ a close friend, has replaced Capt. Harry Tassy in the Presidential Guard, he (Charles) now has access to arms and ammunition in the basement of the Palace and is in a position to carry out a coup against President Francois Duvalier “in the near future.” Although no definite date has been set yet for the coup, Charles is convinced that it must be carried out “within the next few months” to save Haiti from economic and political chaos. Charles, and especially his military friends, feel that 1967 is the year of decision.

2. Although Col. Piarr-Louis (fmu),² commander of the Dessalines Barracks, was not named as a fellow-conspirator, Charles believes that Pierre-Louis knows of and approves his plans to overthrow Duvalier, and that he (Charles) “controls” the Dessalines Barracks through Pierre-Louis. Col. Octave Caillard is one of the key military figures on whom Charles pins his hopes. Caillard is thoroughly disillusioned with Duvalier and is willing to cooperate. Caillard fears that if Duvalier remains in power, Haiti’s economy will be completely ruined and Haitian exiles receiving guerrilla training in Cuba may attempt to seize power in Haiti.

3. Charles has the support of Capt. Preval (fmu),³ of the Presidential Guard, and realizes that high-ranking officers loyal to Duvalier could cause bloodshed; Charles and his associates expect violence during the initial stages of the coup.

4. In addition to ships of the Haitian Coast Guard, Charles now has the use of a 372-ton converted landing craft (LC) which normally sails between Jamaica and Port-au-Prince carrying flour, fuel oil, etc.

Field distribution: CINCBO. Also sent Port-au-Prince. 1967.
