Fitness Report (Part I) Performance.

Instructions.

For the Administrative Officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the Supervisor: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion within him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show part of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-170. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item A of Section A below.

Section A. General.

1. Name: McCord, James, J. Jr.  
2. Date of birth: 26 January 1924.  
3. Sex: Male.  
4. Service designation: SD-SS.  
S/Security Research Staff.  
5. Official position title.

Certification.

7. Grade: GS-12.  
8. Date report due in OF: 22 August 1956.  
9. Period covered by this report: 22 August 1955–21 August 1956.  
10. Type of report: Initial; Annual; Assistant-Supervisor; Assistant-Employee; Special (specify).

Certification.

For the Rater: This report has/was not been shown to the individual rated. If not shown, explain why not.

Check appropriate statements:

X. This report reflects my own opinions of this individual.

If individual is rated “I” in CI or D, a rating letter was sent to him and a copy attached to this report.

I cannot certify that the rated individual knows and evaluates his job performance because (specify).

I have discussed with this employee his strengths and weaknesses so that he knows where he stands.

B. This date: 27 August 1956.  
C. Typed or printed name: Harlan A. Westrell.  
D. Supervisor’s official title: Chief, Security Research Staff.

For the Reviewing Official: Record any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor, or any other information, which will lead to a better understanding of this report.

By. Date.
