Section C. Narrative Comments. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment, and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

During most of the period reported on, Subject was concerned with administrative problems associated with the phase-out of the Station. Despite the consequent operational lull, Subject continued to maintain a satisfactory degree of morale in agents assigned to him, worked up and implemented realistic training programs, and continued to develop excellent target studies against the possibility of a policy change. In addition, important information collected locally by Subject on illegal activities of Cuban refugees was of great interest to other agencies’ offices in the area. Subject was the only Station source of such information, which was acquired only because of Subject’s ability to maintain rapport with agents terminated during the period because of the cutback in infiltration operations.

It could also be noted, as Subject finishes his long tour at this Station and prepares for his next assignment, that he is a thoroughly professional intelligence officer and is, in many ways, an outstanding one. Technically, he is an expert on infiltration tactics and, through his Special Forces experience, an expert on anti-guerrilla warfare as well. Just as important is his ability to gain respect and rapport with foreign agents. He has an imaginative approach to operations, is resourceful in devising tactics, and is determined in carrying out his assignments. He is a definite asset to SOPRINN.

Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 24 April 68. Signature of employee: S. J. Hannon (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal).

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 8 months. Official title of supervisor: Branch Chief, Special Operations. Typed or printed name and signature: John Hannon (signed in pseudo on Pld. Irana.).

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: The Reviewing Officer concurs with the Rating Officer’s comments and overall evaluation of Subject’s performance. Please see Subject’s previous Fitness Reports for additional remarks on Subject’s performance by this Reviewing Officer. Date: 24 April 68. Official title of reviewing official: Deputy Chief of Station, Operations (signed in pseudo on Pld. Irans.).
