Continuation of Dispatch. Digest System and Number: RIMT-5461.

themselves into action, but nonetheless points of real concern to him. Then, he came to Mexico for a period to get "that" novel and writing off his chest: during that period, he saw the Mexican system and some of the Latin American Systems. At that juncture, he became very much aware of the fact that it was the "system" that counted, in spite of whatever imperfections existed, and that there "was, and is, nothing that can anywhere nearly approach the U.S. system". As he said, "Sure, there are a lot of things wrong, because of decisions made by human-beings who are fallible and have their own interests to look after, but there is so much good and so many compensations on the plus side of the system and the way it works, you can afford to recognize the wrongs and work them out within the system". He said that this was so obvious from abroad that he just wondered why he ever had worried about incidents and didn't realize that it was the "system" that mattered.

b. He told about some of the discussions he had had with leftist Mexican intellectuals on these points such as, "Is the Soviet system capable of producing and absorbing such pictures as 'Dr. Strangelove' or having a John Steinbeck write a 'Grapes of Wrath' and run off with all prizes in the writing and motion picture field? Can you even approximate that in Mexico? Witness the future over 'The Children of Sanchez' here while the 'Grapes of Wrath' was every bit as harsh with respect to similar circumstances in the U.S. and won everything." On and on. In so many words, our system thrives on "self-criticism", and there are things to criticize, but what other system in this world is not only permissive of that, but thrives on it. And so on. He has no doubts about any governmental/social/political/economic system in any combination being able to even approach it.

3. The foregoing is a very brief synopsis of a rambling and long philosophic discussion on these points in which TICHBORN concluded his statement and, even, tirade (his Latin heritage had gotten the better of him at that point) with the statement that "My philosophy on this point, and my present sentiments, have been forged in the fire of thinking as a leftist critic and having come to see and understand a great deal; and they, can't tell me a damn thing about what is the best system nor on the basis of their present circumstances in their own countries have they any right or basis for criticizing the U.S. and its actions. Nothing is perfect, and I can't defend it as being perfect, but for every imperfection they try to show me in the U.S. and what it has or has not done, I can show them hundreds in their country and any other one they try to hold up as a model."

4. In so many words, at least the Station case officer at the present time is satisfied in his own mind that TICHBORN was speaking sincerely during this discussion and there is no question in the station's mind about where TICHBORN stands ideologically even though he may be considered "left of center."

5. Since this issue seems to hover constantly in the background with TICHBORN insofar as KUBARK is concerned, the Station felt it would be a good idea to register the foregoing incident and appraisal with Headquarters.
