Dispatch. To: Chief, WH. From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE. Subject: TYPIC Operational Receipt of Threatening Telephone Calls by AMCLATTER/1. Processing: no indexing required; only qualified headquarters desk can judge indexing; abstract; microfilm.

Action Required—References.

FYI.

1. AMCLATTER/1 reported on 19 April 1965 that he had received that same evening a total of four phone calls from an unidentified party threatening to kill both his wife and himself.

2. The first three phone calls were received between 1800 and 1830 hours whereas the fourth call was received at 2130 hours. The caller spoke fluent English and used extremely vile language insulting to both A/1 and his wife. The conversation during each phone call was short and made no sense to A/1 who said the caller at one point identified himself as Jerry WALKER when A/1 asked who was speaking. A/1 has never heard of anyone by this name and believes it to be fictitious. The caller also said on one occasion, “I've been hearing the things you said about me up in Fort Lauderdale.” Again, this remark made no sense to A/1. Re: Threatening phone calls received by T-1-251699.

3. A/1, when offered by his JMWAVE C/O the use of a motel room or safehouse for the evening, said that he appreciated our offer but was armed with a 38 caliber revolver and could take care of himself. He said that his wife and 18 year old daughter agreed with him about staying in their own house since they had fled their home once before in PBRUMEN and did not intend to run again. A/1 is of the opinion that the caller is a crank but has not ruled out the possibility that it may be PBRUMEN intel inspired. He said that one of his friends (IDEN) also had recently received a number of threatening phone calls from someone who spoke fluent Spanish but refused to identify himself by name.

4. WAVE traces on WALKER are negative.

Distribution: A=WH/Cuba (w/XDM u/a/e), attached.

Group reference to. Date types: 30 Apr 95. Date dispatched: Apr 30 1995. Dispatch symbol and number: UFOA-81858. 19-188-3-81/B.
