National Committee for a Free Europe, Inc.

350 Fifth Avenue, Room 301, New York 1, N.Y. Telephone: Extant 9-2100. Cable address: NAFPECONM.

Officers

Joseph C. Geer, Chairman of the Board  
Deputy C. Paine, President of the Board  
John C. Huguenot, Executive Committee  
C. L. Jarrett, President  
Bessie R. Doleone, Vice President  
Walter Presley, Treasurer  
Frank A. Adkins  
V. A. Adkins, Vice President and Treasurer  
Theodora C. Augustus, Secretary and Treasurer

Members

Clarence L. Adcox; Rebecca Price Alexander; Land Bell; A. A. Belk Jr.; France Buhde; Robert Woods Ellis; Robert E. Bradshaw; Harry L. Bullo; James B. Carry; Harry Woodburn Chase; Leslie G. Coy; William L. Capson; Clark M. Cahill; Carl B. Celsik; Frank R.莱nes; William J. Comstock; Hugh A. Cross; Alies W. Dudes; Dawgy D. Earthbrewer; Mark F. Enning; James A. Felsing; Virginia C. Feldenkreis; William Gane; Charles R. Hoeh; Palmer Hoyt; Arthur B. Lane; Henry R. Lee; Joseph V. McKee; Web Maddox; Fredemar Cacena; Arthur W. Pags; Robert P. Perceance; Roger B. Reesmoe; John A. Stiney; Seymour Sherwin; Charles P. Tach; DeWan Wainz; Abbot Wathen; W. W. Wermuth; Walter H. Windsor, Jr.; Matthew Wal; Mr. Quay Wright; Darryl Zuch.

October 1951

The National Committee for a Free Europe is happy to send you a copy of its illustrated booklet, UNCONQUERED, the story of the outstanding Czechoslovakian patriot, Milada Horakova.

Milada Horakova was unbelievably courageous during her imprisonment under both the Nazi and Russian-dominated Communist dictatorships in Czechoslovakia. She was a true defender of democracy, and sacrificed her life for those principles of liberty which all free men everywhere hold dear.

I cannot urge you strongly enough to read UNCONQUERED and learn the story of this brave woman who dared to oppose the Bolshevik conspiracy to destroy democracy in Czechoslovakia.

I ask you to join us in working to preserve peace with freedom for all mankind. If you wish further information about the National Committee, please write me.

Additional copies of UNCONQUERED, while available, are 15¢ per single copy; bulk shipments of 100 copies or more are 12¢ a copy.
