Office for cancelling his two flight tickets to Zurich and refunding.

On 25 October at 0935 H., he inquired at the Information Office of the Federal Railways about train connections to Paris and fares. At 1025 H., he entered the Czech Consulate General but reappeared in the street three minutes later.

On 24 October, the couple visited the Czech Consulate General at 1025 H., where they remained for 25 minutes. At 1110 H., they went to the snack bar of the Zurich University. Halperin then visited the Seminary for Social Economics, Commercial Sciences and Statistics for 30 minutes. At 1515 H., Halperin went to a travel agency to cash a cheque of 50 francs.

On 25 October, Halperin inquired about trains departing for Lugano and obtained various prospectuses of the town. From 1025 to 1055 H., the couple called at the Czech Consulate General. On the way back, they changed 200 francs. At 1311 H., they left by train for Lugano.

Up to this date, the couple had not received any visitors and, as far as could be ascertained, had no suspicious telephone calls while staying in Zurich. They continuously endeavored to cut down expenses to a minimum, taking meals in cheap restaurants or buying food to be eaten in their room at the hotel. The luggage deposited at Kloten Airport was discreetly searched; the personal belongings were of rather poor quality. A list showed that they had sold furniture and household goods prior to their departure from Mexico. Among various articles there were also two pocket editions of dictionaries in Chinese and Russian. Also this and their decorum seems to indicate that the couple plan to settle definitely in the East.

At 1625 H. on 25 October, the couple arrived at Lugano, where they rented a room at the Hotel Gami “Lux” for three or four days.

On 26 October, they went on an excursion to Lake Geneva. At 1730 H. that day, Halperin inquired at the axis post office for the telephone number of a certain Alfred Perso (PERSO) in Paris. No such extension was found in the directory, however.

On 27 October, they made an outing to Genoa and back to Lugano.
