8. The cover correspondence must in no way appear to be different from the bulk of mail ordinarily found in the channel being used. It should contain no information which could be viewed as suspicious in any way. The external aspects of the correspondence must be latent in all aspects if the SW is to be expected to provide any level of security.

9. We have found that the reliability of any SW system depends nearly entirely on the care with which it is used. Please stress the need for careful writing techniques in your agent training sessions.

10. The following supplies and instructions are transmitted in support of the AMR operation:

a. Standard Form 1059-CWI, which describes in detail how to write with a carbon sheet.

b. One carbon sheet 2010, labeled DEMONSTRATION CARBON, is to be used to demonstrate the principles of carbon writing. The development process for this system can be carried out in the agent's presence.

c. One bottle, 100 ml., of developer 20609, which will develop the demonstration carbon writing.

d. Instruction Form H-16029, describing the development of the DEMONSTRATION CARBON.

e. Three carbon sheets 39337. The one labeled PRACTICE CARBON is to be used in training and is to be retained by the Station. Two are to be issued to the agent. The agent should not be allowed to witness the development of this system, nor should he be shown the message after development.

f. Instruction Form II-36037, specific instructions for the development of carbon system 39337.

g. Twenty pills 30607, to be used to develop practice and real messages written with carbon 39337.

h. Two practice messages written with AMR's ingoing SW system, which he should use to practice his development technique.

i. Twenty-five pills 56838, which AMR will use to develop the SW messages he receives. Two or three of these pills should be used in training. Twenty of the remaining pills should be issued to the agent.

j. Instruction Form RA-25053, instructions for the use of developer 56838.

k. One copy of the “Station Maintenance of SW Supplies” form.

l. Miscellaneous items such as cotton, swab sticks, and blotters; items generally useful for SW processing.

11. You will note that two different kinds of carbon sheets have been submitted with the supplies. One is labeled DEMONSTRATION CARBON. This should be used in the practice session only. It should be used to demonstrate carbon writing techniques to the agent. This system can be developed in the agent's presence. The other carbons submitted, 39337, constitute the agent's operational sending system. One sheet of carbon 39337 has been labeled PRACTICE CARBON. After the agent has mastered the use of the DEMONSTRATION CARBON, he should be given an opportunity to write with the PRACTICE CARBON. It is very important that the Case Officer have the chance to critique the agent's SW writing technique with the actual system which the agent will use. However, the agent should not be allowed to witness the development of this system, nor should he be shown the message after development.
