DRE

Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil

Jose Antonio Echeverría, con tus ideas en marcha.

A. Actual Situation of the Delegation

The DRC Delegation in Chile, composed of Nelson Maro, Rafael Domínguez, and Nolis Nosa, is now accomplishing a rather hard labor. However, it is beginning to bear fruit. As we had stated before, the Delegation in Chile follows a plan in a situation in which the American dream is in Latin America. The outstanding force of the FEP, in contrast to the weak position held by Christian Democrats in the Cuban problem, has enormously hindered the development of the work. Undoubtedly, however, the situation has greatly improved. During the last month, three different newspapers were printed and distributed throughout Caribuo. Short courses through the communities of the country were made, and conferences on the Cuban problem were held. A half-hour radio broadcast is transmitted every Sunday. It is the only anti-Castroist radio broadcast in Chile. In the student hall, the latest news and views were held with the Union of Nationality Delegation of Chile (UNOCH), the maximum student opposition of the nation.

B. Deficiencies

On repeated occasions, the Delegation has had to face the distrustful attitude taken by Demo-Christian leaders. As a consequence, the Delegatives have sometimes felt disconcerted, in a situation of decorrelation at work and lack of coordination. However, through repeated efforts, the Delegation has succeeded in keeping itself functioning and is actually fully working.

C. Future Possibilities

After planning over the work already accomplished, we reached the following conclusions, in general agreement, to hold at Caribuo. We determined what came to be the next steps to be taken in Chile.

a. Strengthen the bonds that tie us with the UFFU and with the youth of the Democratic Christian Party.

b. Create aousing force ready to be used at any moment.

c. Join the edition of a new bulletin which will be sent to all the radio stations, the newspapers, TV, Sanborn, representatives, and institutions of the nation.

d. Attain a radio broadcast to be heard throughout the nation.

e. Strengthen our activities inside the community and among the popular masses by means of giving conferences, public acts, etc.

f. Plan the feasibility of carrying through an action in relation to the Cuban Embassy.
