Field Information Report. Country: Cuba. Subject: Plans and Activities of the Directorio Revolucionario (Direcc theory Revolucíonario). Report No. EN-1132. Date of info: October 1956–9 March 1957. Date acquired: 9–10 March 1957. Date of report: 11 March 1957. Source evaluation, appraisal of content. Source: Member of Directorio Revolucíonario (F). Content: 3.

1. Così Antonio DEVERIA Elías² and Juan HUIBY Sánchez,² leaders of the Directorio Revolucionario Unitánte³⁴ (Monetary Student Directory) formed at the University of Miami, not in October 1956 in Miami, Florida, with two delegates of FICAT CNT. This and with Corredorilo Securities to plan this uprising against the EUMC regime. The delegation of the three groups agreed on a plan which called for Castro's group to lead in Orienta and the other two groups to go into action at the same time in support of Castro's leader and subsequent activities. Feustín Yéz,¹⁵,²⁶ and José Manó ²⁷,²⁸ who were filled in the Gloria Iastra fighting, was Castro's delegate: Carlos VILLARREAL,²⁹ former Minister of Labor, accompanied by the FNC.

2. After the reintegration of Co., Col., Antonio ELACCO Lico in late October 1955, Così, Huely, and other members of the Directorio Revolucionario Unitánte³⁴ led it to go into hiding because they were accused by President Fulgenciano Llanado of being part of the authors of ELACCO Lico's book. Since then they have been working discreetly to expel them, end, and prepare their group to go into action. There are currently two men hidden in the Ilona area executing the goal to eliminate, end other groups are really throughout the land. Corredorilo group is exiled from Cuba by personnel, etc. the code words are, as well, from any person that has been told to join this group but have not been incorporated into the group for lack of proper arms. The Directorio Revolucionario has also been in contact with any personnel and hopes that many of the troops will depart or go over to the Directorio Revolucionario side when the fighting begins.

3. The Directorio Revolucionario does not know or understand why the FHC group, which is believed to be controlled, has not gone into action so far. The Directorio Revolucionario knows that he has given instructions to his group leaders to remain quiet, but the reasons behind these instructions have not been determined.
