Control — U.S. Government Cuy.

Subject: Dr. Rando Arango (ARANCO) Alaine.

Report No.: HU-757.

Date of information: 1950-date.

Place acquired: Habana, Cuba.

Date acquired: 8 March 1954.

Evaluation: as indicated.

Date of report: 9 March 1954.

Source: controlled American.

1. The Cuban Government, to further discredit subject, has prepared a memorandum containing a series of false charges concerning his communist connections and activities. The memorandum was prepared by the Cuban Servicio de Inteligencia Militar (Kiliter) for forwarding to the United States Government with the intention that action would then be taken by the United States to remove subject's wife from her present employment with the United States Army in Paris.

2. There follows an English translation of the points covered by the AIM in the memorandum of false accusations:

Dr. Rando Arango (ARANCO) Alaine, an attorney, is a relative of ex-President F consistency of a shipment of contraband nylon rope. Upon his return to Cuba, he was detained by the Bureau of Investigations when a sample case of previous stone was found among his personal effects.

Arango (ARANCO) is an affiliate of the Partido del Pueblo Cubano (Ortedo), and a member of the Committee of Attorneys for that party.

ALIADO is a member of the revolutionary group which includes, at time of writing, OJ Palayo Canebo (CANEBO), N Leech, Francisco Carcue (CARCUE), Elay Soca (SOCA), and Aníbal Colabre (COLABRE), and was a leader of participation in the revolution (革命) of the Moors at Courtal Nouvares, Santiago de Cuba, in the summer of 1953. He is a close friend of Fidel (Fidal) Castro, long-time militant of the Juventud Socialista, and his brother, Elol Castro, also a communist, both of whom are presently in politics for participation in the communist-sponsored Santiago uprising. ALIADO attended the meeting of Cuban oppositionists in Montreal in June 1953, and along with Isidro Guzman Betancourt, a Communist, and Jose Arango Llamez, who was a member of the Communist Party in the barrio of Palya, represented the Frente Unico de los Partidos Comunistas-Oriental-Prima. ALIADO is reported to have represented the socialist interests, although he was charged with defense of the Ortedo policy, and was known to have been in contact with socialist leaders. He has been cited on several occasions as a “commisaria de esfera fija,” and as someone permitted the Cuban socialist party to infiltrate various elements which were formerly

Revista, N° 2948 94-60.

Leyenda: Avisos, informes, informes de situación, información, artículos de periodismo popular, yother information.
