Section C. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Narrative Comments.

Subject gets an “S” across the board for a solid performance.

This rating officer has worked with Subject on a number of assignments over the past ten years. During this time he has risen from a very junior position to his present grade and responsibility due to steady, solid performance oriented towards operations; i.e., he gets out into the street to practice what he has learned.

Only a few days before this report Subject was the on-the-scene supervisor of a professionally conducted recruitment attempt. In such operations his experience against a hard target (PBRUMEN) has been evident.

Subject is a good manager of JKLANCERS, including one on his first overseas tour, and indigenous agents, including one of considerable international access. He makes them all work on target. Under his supervision one of the Station’s moderately useful agents has successfully been moved into the extremely important terrorist area. Subject uses imagination in his day-by-day work (and handles Station JMROD assignments).

His handling of money and records and materials is impeccable.

Both Subject and his wife mix well with their colleagues, and

Certification and Comments (cont’d).

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 19 Jan. 1971. Signature of employee: /s/ Joseph S. Piccolo.

By Supervisor. Month’s employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 12 Jan. 1971. Official title of supervisor: COS David A. Phillips.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I agree with the evaluating officer’s comments and would like to cite for emphasis the high degree of professionalism which characterizes Subject’s attitude and performance. Date: 20 Jan. 1971. Official title of reviewing official: DCOS David H. McGrath.
