Continuation of Dispatch.

Stations within the South Atlantic Region are to be given initial training in loading and Western habits, under congestion conditions than PIERROT.

(WIRROUE typically referred to as “the major” and said that he didn’t remember his name. Later, WIRROUE, in spite of being briefed otherwise, continued to fail to obtain names of people with whom he dealt.) WIRROUE was to meet PIERROT the evening of 9 March at 1703 to discuss the possibility and details of his becoming administrative liaison officer under contract to the Congolese Air Force. PIERROT is interested in developing his own career of instructors, both for flying and mechanical work, to develop further the embryo group of 150 cadets currently more or less ready for flying training.

5. At meetings held 5 and 6 March WIRROUE supplied the following details concerning his new job; he was to meet the Minister of National Defense ad interim, Fernand KALADI, on 7 March to sign a contract. He finally did meet KALADI (whom WIRROUE knows only as M. le Ministre) on 9 March but no contract was yet signed. As of 15 March WIRROUE had not yet signed a contract but this is pending, he tells us, any day. (A copy of this contract will be forwarded to Headquarters when obtained.) The terms of the agreement include, he states, that he will provide through his European contacts at least three pilot-instructors and three mechanic instructors within thirty days. (Thirty days from when is an open question.) More instructors will be needed at a later date, the possible total number being set at ten, five for flying and five for mechanical instruction. These instructors will be paid 20,000 Belgian Congo Francs a month plus 10,000 BCF bonus. WIRROUE will receive 25,000 BCF and 10,000 BCF bonus each month, with housing to be supplied in all cases. If the instructors have families, family transport in addition to their own will be provided by the Congolese government. In addition, medical care and a fifteen-day vacation each year is to be provided. The work week is to consist of a 5½-day week.

6. WIRROUE has said that he is totally dependent upon KUBARK (KULARK) support to supply the needed instructors. He also feels he must provide documentation to prove he is an ex-captain in the German Army and is quite anxious concerning this point. (Answered by para. 3, Ref A.) WIRROUE also feels that the instructors should be other than PERROT (PIERROT) in order to better back up his cover story, since PERROT instructors might point the finger of suspicion in his direction. One or two PERROT candidates, however, could be included, providing a proper cover story were provided. WIRROUE needs names of candidates as quickly as possible, though a dummy list of names “to whom he has written” can be supplied if either PIERROT or KALADI become too insistent. All candidates must be French-speaking. In addition, WIRROUE needs a good 35 mm. camera and feels that this was promised to him, with other equipment, and though his targeting has shifted he still has great use for it. Currently WIRROUE has one of the station-Leicas on short loan in order to photograph the N’Dolo Airport facilities for PIERROT.

7. Recruited instructors should be provided a means of outside contact with the Station separate from WIRROUE, which could be implemented if needed, at a later date. The actual hiring and correspondence relating to their contracts should be sent over to WIRROUE as though he were handling the entire matter himself on behalf of the Congolese government. The address which should be used for all correspondence on an overt basis is included with this dispatch as Attachment 3, with the title of Major preceding the name provided in Attachment A of ACLW-192.

8. With a set salary from the Cong
