Says that when the names of the first casualties arrived, the people were glad and said, “That will teach them to interfere in what does not concern them.” The survivors came back disillusioned. They repent of having gone. The majority of them come back ill or crippled. He adds that the war in Russia is worse than the press reports; the Spanish war was child’s play compared with it. The Falangists are more reserved and make no public criticisms like the others, but among their friends they also say that it was terrible. They went into action just before the Russian counter-offensive began and received the full brunt. They had many losses through bullets and the cold. Some of those who came back crippled have German Iron Crosses, for which they get a pension from the German government; our informant does not know the amount.

Support Given by the Francoist (FRANÇIST) Regime and the Falange to Hitler. — Our informant does not know in what quantity they send reinforcements to the Blue Division. He thinks that there is some exasperation on this point on the part of the Falangist press, which tries in this way to encourage enthusiasm among the young men. He knows that the place they report to and talk is San Sebastian, and that from there they leave for the front. He thinks that they are still sending people, but they are only “reliefs” for those who come home. He adds that those who go to the División Azul today, with very few exceptions, do it against their will. They get the majority of those who go from the barracks. He says that many workmen went to Germany on account of the lack of food and work. He does not know how many, but he thinks a fair quantity. He says that the people take these things calmly generally, because they cannot do anything against them. He only heard that in Eupen there had been some scene with the Blue Division or with the workers who were going to Germany, but he gives no actual details, saying that it is dangerous to try and know too much.

In Spain the most fervent supporters of the Nazis (NAXIS) are — Suñer (SUNER), Muñoz Grande (MUNOZ GRANDE), Moscardó (MOSCARDO), and other generals, and especially the “idealist” Falangists, or those who committed injustices or profiteered and are afraid of “the tables being turned.”

He says that the Falange is only the shadow of what it was during the war. At the beginning, many people joined it for safety’s sake, but now it is a dead thing that no one takes any notice of. The same happened with the “Flechas” (TRECHAS), “Frente de la Juventud,” etc. The syndicates have many members, because membership is obligatory in order to get work. The workers would not join them if they could help it. He says that all the directors are Falangist bureaucrats who take advantage of their position to steal all they can. He cites as an example the fact that employers are obliged to pay something as a contribution to the subsidy allocated to workmen with large families, but he says that the Falangists do not pay it to anybody, but spend it themselves. For these and other similar reasons there is a lot of discontent among the employers.

Our informant says that they are still sending large quantities of food to Germany, also iron and other materials. The people know that if there is famine in Spain it is because the Germans and the “Black Marketeers”—

Asked about the production of the metal factories in Bilbao, he says that they are working under pressure, but he does not know if it is war material. He knows that pig iron is being sent to France; he imagines it is intended for Germany. Iron ore is also sent to France by sea.

Friction Among the Ruling Classes. — He knows that in the army there is a surge of feeling against the Falange, but he says that it has no outside repercussions (REPERTOIRES). The only incident known there was the case of Yagüe and Queipo de Llano (QUIDEO DE LLANO). In general there is a great feeling against the Falange among the soldiers. The consequence is that they make life impossible for Falangists in the army.

He says that the majority of the Basque priests are enemies of Germany, the Falange, and Franco. They are very indignant about the executions of nationalist priests carried out by Franco (FRANCE). Even today there are many of them in prisons. He says that the priests devote voluntary masses to praying that Spain may not enter the war.

He says that other members of the clergy, although they are opposed to the Catholic persecutions in Germany and Poland, support Franco because they believe that only with his help can they preserve their positions.

He adds that the richest and most influential people there do not wish to hold official posts because they feel that there will be a change in Spain and they do not wish to have the responsibility of the crimes committed by others. Official posts are occupied by a series of
