Memorandum 096-72

To: Director, Domestic Contact Service

Attention: OSS (LGrant)

From: Chief, Miami Field Office

Subject: Gordon Cooper and Associates

Reference: OOA(S) 322/16255-72

Date: 5 July 1972

1. On 22 June 1972 we met at some length with Leroy Gordon Cooper, President, Gordon Cooper and Associates, Hong Kong, Opa-Locka Airport, Opa-Locka, Florida. A peripheral benefit of this meeting was the acquisition of additional information concerning Gordon Cooper and Associates (GCA) which may have a bearing on the referenced OOA(S) and possibly on future clandestine interest in the organization.

2. GCA was formed roughly two years ago as an underground and airline management consultant firm. Cooper stated that the organization may be disbanded shortly because of disagreements between Cooper and one of his partners, McAdair. Adair supposedly is a stock manipulator who, Cooper feels, can work close to operating outside the law and therefore is the type of person with whom Cooper desires to associate. Adair has refused to sell his stock in GCA and to disassociate himself with GCA, so the firm will probably be allowed to simply run out of business. GCA will be replaced with Gordon Cooper Consultants Corporation, which will be incorporated either in Nevada or the Republic of Panama. The activities will remain the same and a Miami office will be maintained.

3. In addition to activities within his own firm, Cooper is a member of the Board of Directors of Casino Management International (AMI), Grand Cayman Island. AMI is controlled and operated by Edward Cellini, Robert (Man) Cellini, and Dino (Ann) Cellini, and its activities center around the establishment and operation of gambling casinos throughout the world. Cooper claims that he has assured himself that AMI operates within the limits of U.S. laws, even though they are headquartered in New York City, and that the Cellini brothers, all U.S. citizens, are law-abiding businessmen operating a legitimate business. He claims that there is no “relapse of all personnel connected with the organization,” and an “Cooperplex” cell is maintained with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. He claims cooperation completely with the FBI. Cooper frankly stated that he would allow the use of his name and his ability to capitalize on the success of his astronaut days to introduce AMI to individuals throughout the world.

Benedikt Ruppel, Head of Legal Affairs & General Counsel, 239SS
