Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 006102.

Section A—General. Name: Richard J. Freee. Date of birth: 20 Jan 24. Sex: M. Grade: GS-15. SD: D. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/EUR Paris. Type of appointment: Career. Reassignment supervisor: X. Date report due in O.P.: 31 May 1971. Reporting period: 1 April 1970 to 31 March 1971.

Section B—Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Gained full-time employment as a senior executive of a foreign scientific publication for the purpose of further developing access to Station targets and appreciably lowering the overall cost of the operations in which he is involved. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 2: Uses his cover to gain access to MHHARSH personnel and spot leads on eventual access and support-type assets directed against the local MHHARSH and TPFAST targets.
