Section E. Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in Sections B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is very versatile and can be utilized effectively on an assignment involving heterogeneous duties. His ability to function as an agent handler is extremely commendable. Subject is able to communicate equally well with “high or low level agents.” He further demonstrated his usefulness in the preparation of research papers and the maintenance of files. Supervisor feels that Subject’s productivity and effectiveness is dependent on whether he is in a position that he personally likes. It should be noted that Subject is 44 years old.

Subject has demonstrated that he can assume greater responsibilities. During the period covered, he travelled to Puerto Rico and New Orleans on assignments not under control of the Supervisor.

Section F. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 28 Feb. 62. Signature of Employee: Huy Vitale.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 9 months.

If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation: Employee at left.

3. If report is not being made at this time, give reason. Employee under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days. Other (specify).

Date: 12 Feb. 62. Official title of supervisor: C/O. Typed or printed name and signature: Thomas H. Clines. Thomas G. Clines.

By Reviewing Official. I would have given this employee about the same evaluation. I would have given this employee a higher evaluation. I would have given this employee a lower evaluation. Not judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee’s performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official: Subject was assigned activities for which reviewing official was responsible, for a period of two months.

Date: 13 Feb. 62. Official title of reviewing official: JM Divisional Supv. 1/7. Supervisor’s signature: W.D. J. Forsythe. Typed or printed name and signature: Bliss & Adams. Glass J. Forsyth.
