(Seventh Department — January 1962–January 1964)

Monday. This date was tentatively scheduled, and Nosenko (NOSENKO) again repeated his desire simply to “disappear without a trace.” He also asked about exfiltration plans.

On 31 January Nosenko (NOSENKO) reported the results of his reconnaissance of the KGB Legal Residency in connection with the proposed audio operation, which would involve microphone transmitters operating on a carrier current. He told CIA he had accidentally overheard in the Residency that the building used its own batteries and generator, and therefore the scheme would not work. He repeated his willingness to remain in place until the arrival of the Cherpanov Papers (see p. 309), which he was told were en route from Washington. He explained that he had been alarmed at the previous meeting because the delegation was supposed to move from its hotel to a Soviet villa outside Geneva; at the villa his disappearance would be noticed more quickly. This move, as he had now learned, had been postponed pending the arrival of a housekeeping officer from Moscow.

At Nosenko’s (NOSENKO’s) request on 1 February, it was firmly agreed that the defection would take place on the morning of 8 February. Nosenko (NOSENKO) assumed that exfiltration would be by automobile to West Germany and thence by plane to the United States, and his case officers confirmed his assumption.

On 3 February Nosenko (NOSENKO) reviewed the Cherpanov materials. The defection was still scheduled for Saturday, 8 February.

Nosenko (NOSENKO) telephoned the Geneva safehouse from his hotel room in the early afternoon of 4 February and said: “I want to come now and not go back.” After arriving at the CIA safehouse he explained that when he dropped by the KGB Legal Residency following the morning session of the Disarmament Conference, he read a cable ordering him to return to Moscow immediately to prepare for a KGB conference on foreign tourism in the Soviet Union. The Residency was arranging for a ticket for Nosenko (NOSENKO) to fly to Moscow via Paris the following day, and a replacement was being readied to assume Nosenko’s (NOSENKO’s) duties as security officer for the Soviet delegation in Geneva. Before he had left for Geneva in January, Nosenko (NOSENKO) then related, the Soviet Government had been deliberating the question of expanding foreign tourism in the USSR.
