Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper close relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

During the period under review Subject's activities in support of Cuban operations elsewhere in Europe and his responsibilities as Coordinator of Cuban activities for Western Europe have kept him away from the Madrid Station approximately one half of the twelve month period. Since these activities were under the direction of Headquarters, and not this Station, the rater does not feel qualified to comment on Subject's performance of Specific Duties 2 and 3 and has therefore left those rating boxes blank for completion by the appropriate Headquarters' official.

With respect to Specific Duty 1, supervision of Station's Cuban operations, Subject has applied himself aggressively and imaginatively to this task and the rater feels that Station's Cuban operations have been maintained at a high level and have been an important contribution to KUBARK'S world-wide effort against this priority target. Obviously Subject's frequent and prolonged absences from the Station have not permitted him to give this task his undivided attention or the day-to-day continuity that is so necessary and important.

In the conduct of the Station's Cuban operations Subject has direct supervision of four operations officers, one full time and one part time reports officer, and a secretary. Subject is an efficient organizer and supervisor. He thinks and writes clearly. He is fluent in Spanish. In the conduct of the extensive Cuban operations he has shown himself to be

Section D. Certification and Comments (Cont'd.).

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 1 April 1965. Signature of employee: /s/ Earl J. Williamson.

2. By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Date: 1 April 1965. Official title of supervisor: Chief of Station. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ James A. Noel.

3. By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: I know subject and am thoroughly familiar with his work and performance. I concur in this report with one exception, namely the rating given subject for specific duty No. 6. Because of his travels which absented him from the Station for one-half of the past year, subject performance was inadequately qualified to take charge of the station in the absence of the COS. Specializing on Cuban operations entirely, he has but a limited knowledge of the station's other activities and considering only the effectiveness of his performance of this duty, I could not rate him higher than
