Subject: Recent Communist Advances in the Anti-Government Labor Movement

Report No.: TK-1520

Date of Information: February 13, 1952

Place Acquired: Cuba

Date Acquired: February 13, 1952

Evaluation: C-3

Date of Report: February 20, 1952

Source: Controlled American

1. The two main centers of communist penetration and sympathy in the Cuban syndical government are found in the Bloque Oeste del Partido Acción-Unitaria (Action-Unitaria) and in the Oriente Orbna of the Partido del Pueblo Cubano (Oriental). These groups have a strong dislike for anti-communist labor leaders who have tried to join them despite the fact that those leaders are well-known for their honesty, ability and good intentions in furthering the labor movement in Cuba. In the past few months, and more particularly within the past few weeks, the collaboration between these groups and the Partido Socialista Popular syndical elements has been so close that it has seemed the anti-communist Confederación de Trabajadores de Cuba.

Committee:

As has been previously reported, the present political, as well as financial condition of the Cuban Communist Party is extremely serious. It would appear that the strike of a past with the committees is sure political death for other political parties in the coming elections of June 1952. This has forced the PUP into an isolated position from which there does not seem to be any escape through aligning itself with another political party.

2. The communists have been and are now carrying on a campaign in these syndicates to penetrate and undermine the anti-government labor factions in an effort to gain control of those groups at a later date. This campaign was waged in three stages.

a. The first stage was the communists' penetration of the anti-communist syndicates, paying up their union dues and using their voice and vote in the union meetings to propose and elect their candidates for committee positions.

b. The second stage was to sow seeds of doubt among the members of these groups in joining with any of the anti-communist labor federations or with the government CIO by accusing the union leaders of having sold themselves out to the employers and to the government which are depicted as the enemies of the laboring class. The communists have always tried to exploit the anti-government feeling in these labor groups—particularly within the Bloque Oeste del PAU—in an effort to destroy the anti-communist labor leaders in the various syndicates.
