Yevgeniy Surganov  
Vladimir Molochko (Molochkov)  
(FNU) Borich (correct spelling?)

Aleksandr Pokhin

Fedor Chistyy

6. Did Aksenov (Aksenöv) explicitly tell Subject that the above are KGB officers? If not, how does Subject know? Did these officers frequent the Hotel “Yubileynaya” only for social purposes, for operational reasons, or both? Dates/time frame? Can Subject provide any additional information about their intelligence training, specialties, operational activities, past assignments, or current assignments?

7. How did Subject learn that Aleksandr Pokhin is Deputy Chief of the Operations Department of the Belorussian KGB? From Pokhin? From Pokhin’s daughter Lyudmila? From Aksenov (Aksenöv)? What is the designation for this component in Russian? Does Subject have any idea who is the Chief?

8. Does Subject have any other knowledge of the organization and structure of the KGB in Minsk, or of other personnel? Please ask him to provide names and biographic data on any additional KGB/Minsk officers he may have met or may know of but does not know personally.

9. Please obtain a full account of what Subject knows about Leonid Abramovich Tsirlin, including additional biographic information, how Tsirlin happened to approach Subject before Subject’s departure, and details regarding the underground Zionist group in Minsk on whose behalf Tsirlin is allegedly acting. How well does Subject know Tsirlin? What is his appraisal of Tsirlin? Does Subject know any of Tsirlin’s associates besides Slava Shor? If so, please obtain full details.

10. Please ask Subject to provide the full name of his neighbor Slava Shor and biographic information. Please also ask Subject to describe his relationship with Shor and Shor’s relationship with Tsirlin.

11. Please obtain biographic information on Yakov Fishman, including the full names of his parents who, according to Subject, have been in New York since 1974. Where in New York? As emigrés? How well does Subject know Fishman? For how long? Ask Subject to describe fully the background and circumstances for Fishman’s request that Subject memorize PI for the benefit of Western intelligence.
