(Seventh Department — January 1962–January 1964)

He became First Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department. Again assigned to escort a delegation to Geneva in January 1964, Nosenko met CIA representatives again and delivered notes of KGB operations of which he had learned since his last meeting with CIA in 1962. He also presented at this time a KGB travel document to substantiate his claimed rank of lieutenant colonel. Finally, he announced the receipt of a telegram recalling him to Moscow, an event which prompted CIA to accept his immediate defection.

Nosenko's claimed date of transfer into the Seventh Department is in dispute because of contradictory claims he made regarding his Embassy Section activities. He provides no information sustaining his claim to have become Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section; his description of his functions does not differ materially from that given in connection with his earlier claimed service in the same section, as a case officer, and he describes no administrative nor supervisory responsibilities. None of his claimed agents, with one exception, was employed in Seventh Department operations he described. Because of contradictions and the conflicts in his varying accounts, neither of the reasons Nosenko cites for his assignment to Geneva in 1962 or 1964 is credible. In Geneva, it is implausible that he conducted the investigation of Shakhov as he claims, and he clearly did not supervise the management of the double agent, Belit-Skiy.

Nosenko offers nine “tourist” cases as evidence that he served in the 1962–1964 period in the Seventh Department, part of the time as Deputy Chief. These cases, which included two religious figures, two American Communists, one émigré, one suspected FBI agent, a First Chief Directorate target who intended to marry a Soviet citizen, a hostage, and a permanent resident or former permanent resident of the Soviet Union, all have aspects for which KGB elements other than the Seventh Department may have been responsible. This fact and the anomalies of Nosenko's accounts of the cases aside, however, the cases are evidence that Nosenko did serve during the period in the Seventh Department, although they are not persuasive of his claim to have been Deputy Chief. A judgment of that latter claim must rest primarily on an appraisal of other
