Field Fitness Report.

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:

1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Field Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmission of this report to headquarters.

To the Field Supervisor: Send the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate with me in practiceable, with his previous supervisors (if any), in the performance of the duties of his present position. I assure you that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your supervisory responsibility by frequent discussions of his work, so as to be surely in control of the results of his performance.

Posted Pos. Control: PJS. 29 November 1955.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is submitted. I dated the report, in accordance with the supervisor's date of 1/2/55.

Casasic Section 1.

Date of birth: 20 January 1924. Sex: M. Service designation: (1) FI, (2) FP.

Graduate: 4/27/64. Station designation (current): GS-1/2, USSR Base, Tokyo.

Due date on this report: 30 September 1955. Period covered by this report: 17 February–30 September 1955.

Section II (to be completed by Field Supervisor). Date assumed responsibility for position: 19 February 1955. Position: Chief, USSR Base, Tokyo 0136.01.

Specific assignments or tasks typical of those given to the employee during the past three to six months, listed in order of frequency:

A. As Chief of Operating Base:
1. Manage and direct all operations against target area, and monitor products.
2. Supervise system of development and exploitation of operational leads.
3. Supervise proper administration and support of operations, including finances.
4. Conduct or supervise effective liaison with other KUBARK elements, with other Government agencies abroad and, when appropriate, with representatives of other governments.

B. As Senior SR Division Officer in Area:
1. Consult with or advise other KUBARK and non-KUBARK units on target area, government, and IS characteristics.
2. Make available to other KUBARK and non-KUBARK units area specialists, as required.
