Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 006198.

Section A: General. Name: WIGREN, Lee II. Date of birth: 12/01/23. Sex: M. Official position: OPS Officer. Office/division/area of assignment: DDP/CI/R&A. Type of appointment: Career. Type of report: Reassignment supervisor; annual. Date report due in O.P.: 30 November 1971. Reporting period: 1 January 1971–31 October 1971.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties. List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific duty No. 1: Analyzes and synthesizes materials dealing with both the history and current status of the Soviet intelligence and security services and with the operations directed by them against their major counter- (cont.). Rating letter: O.

Specific duty No. 2: As a corollary of the above, serves as CI/R&A's principal point of contact with SB Division (except for ADP matters). Rating letter: S.

Specific duty No. 3: Organizes and maintains basic counterintelligence data on the RIS, such as strength figures, case histories, counteraction (
