Denver, Colorado

“We shall be most happy in this parish to do something specific in a spiritual way for the restoration of freedom of religion in the satellite countries. It will be announced to our congregation on Sunday, March 16th, that a special Mass will be offered on the fourth Sunday of Lent, on Paragon Sunday, on Palm Sunday and again on Easter Sunday for religious freedom behind the Iron Curtain. I can assure you that in this parish many hundreds of prayers and Holy Communion will be offered to Almighty God for our distressed brothers and sisters behind the Iron Curtain. God grant that your request will receive the response that it so richly deserves. Humble prayers will be more potent than the most effective bomb.”

Holyoke, Massachusetts

“This silent prayer was inserted in our order of worship yesterday in response to your request.

“Father, we thank Thee for the privilege of worship, and for the freedom to listen, to think, and to speak as Thy Spirit directs. Make us deeply sensitive to the sufferings of the peoples of Eastern Europe and of Asia, to whom this freedom is now denied. Open their hearts and lives as well as ours, we pray Thee, to the message of the Gospel of Christ.”

Newcastle, Maine

“I am very happy to cooperate...it is often difficult to make people understand that...we are part of a great world movement. If only each individual in each tiny place could and would realize he...can in a small way further the cause of peace and justice...”

Roseburg, Oregon

“...our congregation has been much aware of the needs and the available power through prayer. We shall continue to do everything we can. Thank you for encouraging the Church people to broaden their vistas and horizons of the prayer experience.”

Springfield Center, New York

“...sincerely trust the response to your appeal will prove so universal that the prayers of millions of earnest and loyal Christians will prove so effective that with God's help we shall be miraculously successful in bringing to light the diabolical machinations of the godless Soviet Tyrants...”
