C. Period of World War II:

1. In December 1939 David reported in Paris to a depot of the French Foreign Legion for voluntary service in the Legion. Fifteen days later he was sent to Lyon (Lion), and from there, after a one-week stay, to Marseilles. From Marseilles he was shipped to Oran, and further sent to Sidi-Bel-Abbès (Sidi-Bel-Ables) in Algeria, then to Tunis, Sousse, to the First Cavalry Regiment. There Lieutenant De Warre (De WARREI) sent him to courses for NCOs.

2. But soon an order was received to send all legionnaires—Georgians—to Barcares, where special units had to be formed of different nationalities. About 110 Georgians and thousands of legionnaires of other nationalities were sent to Barcares. They remained idle, doing very little exercising.

3. After the German-French hostilities ended, those foreign legionnaires were returned from Barcares to Paris and discharged, including David. He went back to his parents.

4. He looked for work. A Georgian had recommended him to go to Germany, where a Georgian Legion was being formed for the fight against the Soviets. Archilles GUEDEVANICHVILI was said to be gathering people for this purpose. David's father told him that a Georgian MEDIA was the man who organized this in connection with the Germans. David went to this man and had a talk with him, but did not like the idea.

5. Then David reported to the German Labor Office in Paris, volunteering as an electrician for work in Germany. He was sent to POELITZ, near STETTIN, HIDRYER WERZE, with a contract for one year.

6. He remained there for some three months. A mate of his, PASCAL (first name), did not like the work, and both decided to quit and go “on leave.”

7. They had no valid German travel documents. It was impossible to travel with the identity card issued by the factory if there was a leave certificate; travel documents were issued by the police.

(Note: Here the story is confused: as the debriefer recollects, David spoke on the first day of the debriefing that he had help from a girlfriend who put into good German the text which he had prepared for the forged certificate of leave, to visit his sick uncle in Berlin. On the second day he revoked this, saying that this must have been a misunderstanding; he had spoken out of the chronological sequence, about a later case when he had help from a girlfriend.)

David went to the police in Stettin and somehow managed to get the travel documents, valid until 2 June, to visit his sick uncle in Berlin, who did not exist at all.
