In consequence of the closure of IMO and the absence of any authority capable of organizing and controlling the refugee national committees, a double vacuum exists. In respect to the first vacuum, the UN High Commission, UNICEF, the voluntary agencies, and the State Department program have yet to prove their ability to fill it. In respect to the second vacuum, the British, the French, the Italians, the Austrians, and the Germans have the possibilities of filling this vacuum. Of these, the German interest is most likely to provide the most direct and immediate conflict with NCFE-RFE interests. The fact that the German and have demonstrated an interest in these committees, and particularly in support of the separatist elements, indicates that those committees are not without political importance. Because of the political ambitions or honest desire to serve of their leaders, and of the need of the refugees for spokesmen and representatives in their dealings with local authorities, such committees will always exist, whether or not they are controlled or supported. If these committees are to be controlled at all, it is obviously to NCFE’s advantage that they be controlled by NCFE. It would be dangerous to assume that this control could be exercised solely through the “leaders” residing in the U.S., as the opportunity exists for them to serve and for those in Europe to play off one Western power against another. It has already been demonstrated in one case that the branch of a national council, with headquarters in the U.S., due to the exigencies of the local situation, may be obliged to follow a policy which is quite contrary to the interests of NCFE.

In addition to the major double vacuum described above, our survey has disclosed the existence of a number of minor vacancies in exile representation which have been filled by unscrupulous self-appointed national representatives whose presence has been largely responsible for the skepticism and mistrust with which exile representatives are frequently regarded by the international and voluntary agencies. This unfortunate factor may be traced to the lack of recognized accreditation for such representatives, to the absence of any responsible and consistent field supervision, control, and backing of worthy and qualified representatives. In this regard, representatives of the UN High Commission and the voluntary agencies have expressed a definite interest in efforts to order the chaotic situation of the national representatives.

IV. Reconsideration of HOPE’s Basic Requirements in Its Association with Other Refugees: The National Councils

As we have shown above, it is to NCFE’s interest to attempt to order this confused situation, and if the attempt is to be made, careful consideration must be given to the selection of the tools which are to be used. The Division of HOPE which has already dealt with NCFE’s relations with the exiles, and indirectly with the refugees, has been the National Councils Divisions. This division
