If you are passing through Moscow and have only a day to spare, here is what we recommend you see:

1. Excursion by car or tourist coach. A three-hour tour will give you a general idea of all of Moscow. The tour starts from Hotel National in the heart of the city and for...

The service bureau will relieve you of all travel cares and book tickets for you on internal and international railways and airlines. It will help you extend your visa and perform all other pertinent formalities.

The service bureau books tickets to theatres, concerts, cinemas, and sports events. Make sure that you book tickets well in advance, for every Muscovite is an avid theatre-goer and sports fan, and tickets are scarce.

The price of a theatre and concert ticket is 2 to 3.50 rubles, and of a cinema ticket 40 to 70 kopeks.

The service bureau will tell you what is showing at Moscow’s theatres, concert halls, and cinemas.

If your tour does not cover excursions and you wish to see the sights of Moscow, the service bureau will be glad to recommend the best sightseeing itineraries.

If you need a guide-interpreter, the service bureau will be happy to provide one. Intourist guides speak English, Bulgarian, Spanish, Italian, Chinese, Hungarian, German, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Serbo-Croatian, Finnish, French, Czech, Swedish, and Japanese. The services of a guide-interpreter cost up to 8 hours—8 rubles; for every subsequent hour—1 ruble, 70 kopeks.

You can hire a car for a sightseeing trip of Moscow and its environs or order a long-distance telephone call through a service bureau.

If you are unwell, the service bureau will summon a doctor. If you need medical services in the Soviet Union, they are of charge.

Approach your hotel service bureau with anything that interests or troubles you. The receptionist will be glad to advise you and to render all the necessary assistance.

If You Are Passing Through Moscow...

It is permitted to ship out of the USSR furs and installed securities. Antiquities and art may be shipped out provided you obtain, as soon as possible, from the Ministry of Culture and 文化, a list of the objects which are duty amounting to 10% per cent of the price...

Detailed lists...

on the forest, Mema...

If you are passing through Moscow and have only a day to spare, here is what we recommend you see:

1. Excursion by car or tourist coach. A three-hour tour will give you a general idea of all of Moscow. The tour starts from Hotel National in the heart of the city and for...
