Fitness Report. The Fitness Report is an important factor in agency personnel management. It serves to provide a basis for selection of individuals for membership in the career service; and it is a periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

Instructions.

To the Administrative or Personnel Officer: Consult current administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report.

To the Supervisor: Read the entire form before attempting to complete one item. As the supervisor also assigns direct and supervises the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his efforts, measures, and methods. Your job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this record has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate with his previous supervisors so as to ensure the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision, you have discharged your secondary responsibilities by frequent discussions of his work, so that in a general way he knows where he is going.

Annual and Biennial Performance Appraisal Form.

It is optional whether or not this Fitness Report is shown to the person being defiled.

Section I (To be filled in by Administrative Officers).

Name (Last, First, Middle): Killer Newton. Date of birth: 1 September 1926. Date of entrance on duty. Office assigned to. Division. Branch. Nature of assignment: Departmental. Field. Period specified by this report (inclusive dates). If specific specification. Date that this report is due: 7 November 1954. Period covered by this report (inclusive dates): 1953 to 3 May 1955.

Section II (To be filled in by Supervisors).

Current position: T.C. Adv. Asst. (cc) 65-0126-13. Date assumed responsibility for position: 23 August 1954, 12:00-65.

What special assistance on tasks are preferred of those given to him during the past three months? (List in order of frequency):

Period October 1952 to 23 August 1954: Chief, China Branch. 23. Superior 1952 to 1 May 1955: Responsible for China area planning and programming to be submitted to senior staff of other areas. Divisional planning including the division at work of various activities, principally in Europe. Conducted a field survey of 10 branches in Europe, of local activities in countries for the purpose of recommending suitable plans, operational activities, personnel placement, etc.

Read the initial form as well as you can by completely completing all the information sheet.
