Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 056361.

Section A. General.

Name: Hicks, Calvin W. Date of birth: 8 November 1924. Sex: M. Grade: GS-13 D.

Official position title: OPS Officer. Current station: Washington, D.C.

Type of appointment: Career; Reserve; Temporary; Initial; Annual; Special (specify); Reassignment supervisor; Reassignment employee. Career provisional.

Date report due in C.P.: 31 January 1964.

Reporting period: 1 January 1963–31 December 1963.

Section B. Performance Evaluation.

W — Weak. Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment, or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A — Adequate. Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P — Proficient. Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S — Strong. Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O — Outstanding. Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Chief, PM Section, Miami Operations Branch of DDP/SAS and Senior Headquarters Case Officer for PM Operations conducted against target country. DE 28 DG 10. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Provision of operational guidance to field. DE 31. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Review and comment on operational plans submitted by station. Rating letter: O.

Specific Duty No. 4: Insuring that necessary training, logistics and technical support are provided for
