Section C. Narrative Comments.

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Mention performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the event of personnel space, equipment, and funds, must be commented on as applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Hidalgo is a man of unusual background even in our unusual organization. This background undoubtedly affords him qualifications for our work, but nevertheless, on the professional level he suffers from disadvantages as well—overcoming some but not others. He is not well-educated in a formal sense, and in our world of words is not adequately equipped to prepare finished written correspondence. He has difficulty in organizing his work systematically, thus at times giving an impression that the preparation has not been thorough—which might not really have been true.

On the other hand, Mr. Hidalgo has the advantage of native fluency in Spanish and an obvious understanding of the Latin thinking process and culture. He is broadly experienced in operations, not only as a case officer but as an actual agent himself, having served four years as a Bureau penetration of the CPUSA. He is operationally imaginative and unquestionably possesses the ingenuity and courage to translate ideas into action. In this respect, however, his efforts must be channeled and selectivity exercised. On the Panama Desk this officer provides the valuable service of operational history and continuity; he served six years in the Station and has been on the desk for three.

Continued.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Date: 9 Jan. 1969. Signature of employee: Thomas D. Little.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation. Official title of supervisor: C/WW/2/P. Type or printed name and signature: Edwin M. Terrell.

Months employee has given under my supervision.

Date: 9 January 1969.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: Mr. Hidalgo is an experienced and well qualified operations officer, and it is indeed unfortunate that there are medical problems which do not allow him to be assigned overseas. Since Mr. Hidalgo cannot be assigned overseas, I too endorse his desire to be assigned to OTR or to another assignment of his choice.

Date: 9 JAN 1969. Official title of reviewing official: C/WW/2. Type or printed name and signature: Edwin M. Terrell.
