d. HU-1-4463, HU-2232, and HU-2276, setting forth a list of series of contacts between “Rena” Kilde (KILDE), an Ethiopian student intelligence agent, and Morris F. Kolchakov (KOLCHAKOV), Soviet intelligence officer.

e. HU-1-6744, which sets forth the history of the contacts between Horacio (HERACIO) Suboxal (SUBOXAL), Order agent, and Boris P. Koloklaokov (KOLOKLAOKOV).

f. HU-1-2270, setting forth contacts between Nikolay K. Kozov (KOZOV), Soviet intelligence officer, and Jesus Azo Leandro, Mexican naval officer.

g. HU-1-5416 and HU-1-5216, which deal with the possible contacts of a Mexican parachutist named Edward Albert (ALTERT), working with the Soviet Embassy, and which possibly have some importance to counterintelligence within the U.S.

h. HU-1-5941, Juliusz Katz-Sukh (Polish intelligence matter), setting forth this subject’s activities and contacts while in Mexico. This report was largely based on LIEUT.

i. Many others.

7. Double Agent Checking

During the past year, as in previous years, a number of this Station’s double agents have been monitored through LIFEAT in contact with the Soviet Embassy, thus enabling the Station to verify certain portions of their reports and hence leading to a better chance to evaluate the agents. Among those heard in the past year were LIFEL, LILDE, LEILE, LEACE, and LIINSTOCK-1. In each case LIFEAT tended to confirm the Station’s good opinion of the agent. On the other hand, several recent contacts between former Station agent LIVESTOCK-3 and the Soviets indicate that LIVESTOCK-3 may be “playing” with the Soviets or endeavoring to do so.

8. LITERATURE

Reference is made to HU-1-5923 (HU-01-843), which sets forth data on Soviet LITERATURE matters, derived mainly from LIARA. Personality data on LITERATURE figures, especially in the Russian and Czech establishments, has been accumulated and studied as a major Station objective.

9. Intentions and Activities of the Mexican Government

During the early part of 1957, LIFEAT enabled the Station to assess reports it was receiving from another source concerning the changing and hardening of the Mexican government’s attitude toward foreign Communists. LIFEAT coverage of various individual targets gave solid information on the arrests of the foreign Communists Mario Susa Davarro (SUSA DAVARRO) and Joaquin Oroquo (OROQUO).

Attachment to HU-1-7063

1966

5 June 1957
