Subject: Further Information on the Juventud Socialista.

Place Acquired: Habana, Cuba. Evaluation: F-3. Source: Controlled American. Report No. TCH-1365. Date of Information: 2 Jan 51. Date Acquired: 4 Jan 51. Date of Report: 22 Jan 51.

1. The PSP (Partido Socialista Popular, Cuban Communist Party) high command maintains continued interest in a very large degree in the Juventud Socialista organization. One of the principal tasks of the Communist Party is to maintain the direction of a strong Communist youth movement which will respond only to the ideological foundation of the Communist Party. In the PSP the most insistent voice of this Communist principle is that of Elías Roca, who takes a personal interest in the direction of the Juventud Socialista and constantly watches over its activities through trusted lieutenants. Many of the present leaders of the PSP were formerly leaders of the Juventud Comunista, the former Juventud Socialista. Men of this type are Severo Aguirre, Agosto Suarez, and Osvaldo Ballez, prominent PSP member in Canaguay (Camagüey) Province. On its own part, the Juventud Socialista maintains a close liaison with the National Executive Committee of the PSP through its leader, Flavio Bravo, who attends the weekly meetings of the National Committee.

2. The caliber of the Juventud Socialista direction is high. Its leaders are militant Communists and many members of the Juventud Socialista National and Provincial Committees have been political candidates for various government offices in past elections. Second to Flavio Bravo in the leadership of the group is Luis Ángeles Artín; both of these men were political candidates in recent elections and have attended various conferences abroad. Other leaders of note are Lionel Soto, President of the School of Philosophy, Habana University; Bienvenido Araújo and his wife, Yolanda López Perez; Federico Rita and Georgina Vilar, all children of the well-known Communist leader, César Vilar, who were educated in Russia; Julio Lacazado; Bienvenido Suarez; Raúl Valdez Vivo; Ramón Calcines, Juventud Socialista member from Las Villas Province; Fidel Doñaño of Oriente Province; and Páez (fnu) of the printing section of the Juventud Socialista. Other youth leaders not members of the Juventud Socialista but closely tied up with their activities are Alfredo Guevara; Enrique Ovares; Aramis Paroada; Maxír Sánchez of the Orthodox Party; and Humberto L. Vacazado, President of the Juventud of the PAU (Partido Acción Unitaria) and Director of the newspaper Vanguardia Unitaria.
