Who once showed him that the Gobernación had more than a foot-high file on him, and Subject told him they should not bother trying to do something against him because they could not even kick him out of the country. He has a friend to whom he is authorized to turn if he is in any kind of trouble, and he asked his Gobernación to dial the phone number which he gave him. The phone was answered by CISNEROS (CISNLROS) of the Presidency. Subject claims that he has influential friends in practically every ministry (Secretaría) of the Federal government. Subject also prides himself on the women friends he has, and they are influential.

6. In answer to its question, Subject stated that he called on Mr. Cess at the U.S. Embassy because he had a fairly close relationship with Valentin LOGINOV (LOGINEV) (P-11,712) of the Soviet Embassy, and he would not want to be judged wrongly if the WOIRN people got to know about his friendly relationship with LOGINOV.

7. F commented that he hoped that Subject realized that the title on his credentials really spells Counter Intelligence, which, for example, means that if F saw Subject robbing a bank, he could not care less because that would be a matter concerning the criminal police, or if he was charged with having a child out of wedlock, because that would be a matter for the judiciary authority. But when it comes to spies, then that is a matter which concerns F and the service he is working for. In view of the well-established fact that LOGINOV is a spy and Subject is his friend (sic), this matter is of concern for American Counter Intelligence. Therefore, F would appreciate it if Subject stated clearly what was the purpose of his visit to the U.S. Embassy. Subject answered without hesitation or embarrassment that he believed he had made himself clear even at the Embassy: he wanted to cooperate with the U.S. Service and be of help as much as it stood in his power. F commented that he would probably ask Subject whether he still wanted to help the U.S. Counter Intelligence before they closed their meeting that day.

8. In reply to his questions, Subject stated:

In February 1969:

a. He met LOGINOV at a social party in the house of Dr. Federico MARIN (Frederico), who is, as is commonly known, a Communist by ideology. He does not know where the other Soviet officials at the party [were].
