Section C. Narrative Comments.

Mr. MakSYMIEC is basically an excellent photographer who has actually lent a hand as a D&F Technician. Unfortunately, he must be rated according to his job classification as a D&F Technician, and he suffers accordingly.

In his previous fitness report, he was alerted to this fact. He needs to direct his interest toward becoming a technician and away from his photographic activities. He has not completely heeded this advice.

Two distinct training activities were advised for assisting him in making the transition: a course of instruction in math necessary to discharge technician's duties, and on-the-job project work. The former persisted for only a short time, due presumably to his lack of ability and/or interests. He improved very little from this instruction. His assistance on a project for developing an anemia leak detector was effective, and the project was a success; however, his thin knowledge of the scientific method diminished his appreciation of the concept of experimentally controlled variables. In short, he had to be watched closely to insure that his well-meaning “improvement” did not disrupt the experimental plan. His interest and cooperation in this program were commendable, and his overall project performance was adequate.

Mr. MakSYMIEC is basically mis-assigned. His abilities and interests lie in the photographic field where he does a very commendable job. However, the laboratory needs the services of properly trained technicians to assist the physical scientists in their research efforts. Since Mr. MakSYMIEC's expertise is not in this area, it is again recommended that suitable employment as a photographer be found for him.

Section D. Certification and Comments.

By Employee. I certify that I have seen Section A, B, and C of this report. Date: 15 Oct 69. Signature of employee: H. H. Killeen.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 30. Date: 15 Oct 69. Official title of supervisor: Chief, Exploratory Laboratory, ATB/RED/TSSG. Typed or printed name and signature: Henry L. Dollard.

By Reviewing Official. Comments of reviewing official: In light of the past and present ratings of Mr. MakSYMIEC, I feel that we are doing him an injustice in keeping him in his present post. Every effort should be made to find a more suitable position for him. Date: 15 October 1969. Official title of reviewing official: Chief, RED/TSSG. Typed or printed name and signature: Michael P. Giovanno.
