Section E. Instructions.

For the administrative officer: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

For the supervisor: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor, and to appropriate career management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is not to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision DWF at least 90 days. If less than 90 days, hold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. If this is the initial rating on the employee, however, it must be completed and forwarded to the DWF no later than 90 days after the due date indicated in item 8 of Section B below.

General. Section E.

1. Name (Last, First) (Middle): MILER Newton Scott.
2. Date of birth: 1 March 1926.
3. Sex: M. DI.
4. Service designation (O/C, P/M, S/S): Chief, Project MONOTONY.
Office division/branch of assignment: FE/4/Thailand. 29 December 1950–29 June 1957.
7. Grade: OS-14.
Date report due in 15 days.
Type of report: Initial; annual.
Certification/supervision: Staff employee.

Section F. Certification.

1. For the raters: I certify that this report is based upon the individual being rated. Joseph W. Smith (S).

A. This date: 29 June 1957.
B. Type of reviewer.
C. Official title of reviewing specialist: Deputy Chief of Station, Thailand.
John L. Hart (S).

Rating number. 7. Potential to assume greater responsibilities.

Directions: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

1. Already above the level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.
2. Has reached the highest level at which satisfactory performance can be expected.
3. Making progress, but needs more time before he can be trained to assume greater responsibilities.
4. Ready for training in assuming greater responsibilities.
5. Bill probably adjust quickly to walk responsible duties without further training.
6. Already assuming more responsibilities than expected at his present level.
7. An exceptional person who is one of the few who should be considered for early assumption of higher-level responsibilities.

Supervisory potential.

Directions: Answer this question: Has this person the ability to be a supervisor? Yes. No. If your answer is yes, indicate below your opinion or guess of the level of supervisory ability this person will reach after suitable training. Indicate your opinion by placing the number of the descriptive rating below which comes closest to expressing your opinion in the appropriate column. If your rating is based on observing him supervise, note your rating in the “actual” column. If based on opinion of
