Dispatch.

To: Chief of Station, Paris (Attention: COVERDALS).

Info: Chief, WO; Chief, LOPIPIT; Chief, KUDASK; Chief of Station, Madrid.

From: Chief of Station, London.

Subject: STEEDY/Operational. Data on Antonio LOPEZ Campille.

Action required—references. Ref: OFTA 79622, 19 May 1965 (not sent all addressees).

1. On 4 June STEEDY/1 provided the following information on the personality and living pattern of Subject which we hope will be helpful to COVERDALS in mounting an eventual recruitment approach.

a. Subject is smarting with desire for revenge against those who have cut him off from all meaningful political activity and probably from a source of income as well. (Note: Subject told S/I that currently, CRIPPA is supporting his P.O.W.L with the equivalent of $1,000 per month.) He is particularly angry with STEEDY, who owes him some money.

b. An intellectual, Subject has never been particularly effective in the area of practical organisational politics. He is rather weak in the sense that in a conflict situation he tends to pull back. In other words he is not aggressive by nature. At the same time, S/I felt certain that Subject's indignation and desire for revenge were deeply seated in his emotions and he would not be able to rationalise away these feelings.

c. Subject is basically a friendly and courteous person.

d. Subject speaks French and Spanish but no English. His wife, described by S/I as a stronger personality than Subject, does speak English. She teaches school.

e. Subject has mixed feelings towards CRIPPA, but uppermost is his desire to rehabilitate himself with the Belgian "guleiter." It is thought that if someone telephoned Subject and made reference to "Jacoque" or "a message from a friend in Belgium" Subject would most likely come out for a meeting.

f. Subject has irregular working hours at the CHRS and it would be easy for him to leave the job for an hour or two without anyone becoming suspicious. He works on research projects and more or less sets his own hours.

g. Asked if he thought Subject would be in a position to provide such information on the FCE Pro-Chico dissident groups, S/I said that he thought Subject was well-informed and, if willing, would be

Cross reference to dispatch symbol and number: OSHA-43,294.
