Keel 72-MICO-37

2 May 1965

7.2 contd.

Way from VKG and Miric uses the afternoon to write things. Mejia K. can give him the info on the phone. All right. The last time Miric talked to VKG was around 1130. Then VKG gave him info on this morning's conversation. Yes. Also Mejia K.'s talk yesterday with Hoach. Yes. Then he has info. He can pick up their press communiqué at VKG's. It says about the same as VKG told him. Ask for Mejia's phone. Mejia does not have a home phone. The other day Miric could not locate Mejia's house. It is Valeriano Trujano 325. Explains where it is located.

8.2 Out to 25-06-46. Marcio Mejia Kicart asks NO, who answers, for E. Kouchkorey (? Kouchorov—the way they pronounce it).

K. takes phone. Tells NO that he has a communiqué which is quite important to K. K. would like to see Mark. Mark will call K. later, when he has some free time, so they can get together. At what time? Moment.

Will call later. VKG is going out and Mark is leaving VKG's. K. says he is going back home in about 30 minutes. He will be at home at 1800. Fine.

8.7 In. Miric with Inge (Kico), who answers. Greetings.

VKG takes the phone. They (Dominicans) left a communiqué, but it is the same thing that VKG gave Miric this morning. VKG sent them away because he has to do some writing. They (Dominicans) are making a call—especially to the Third World. It says: “We are calling desperately, in the name of the Dominican people, always willing to sacrifice, as to all the peoples who are working and loving of peace in the world, to instruct their delegates in the United Nations to defend a sister country criminally aggravated. We call especially the non-aligned countries (countries not following U.S. lines) which have so many times felt in their side the weight of the imperialist boot. We demand the fraternal support of the countries which create their own destiny under socialism—convinced that peace is for all and imperialism the common enemy.” This imperialist aggression must be stopped in the achieved Dominican people. It is signed by: Dr. Emilio Cordero Michel, Dr. Marcio Mejia Kicart, Ing. Leandro Cuzzeu, Dr. Tobias Cabral Mejia, and Ronald Emilio Colombo—in the name of the Dominican exiles in Mexico.

Has VKG had news from the North (U.S.)? No, has had people there. There is an evident effort, through the news they are emitting, to pacify Latin America. They are now speaking of naming a provisional president. Also have said that José A. Mora (Jse A. Nora) has met with Presia, after talking to rebel chiefs, to seek a formula, apparently, they say, based on the proposals of the rebels. Miric comments that this is at least a confession (that they are in the right). Also it is said that an armistice, cease-firing, has been achieved between marines and rebels. They are trying to support the O.E.A. Commission. According to figures, all civilians have been evacuated. They are having a meeting this afternoon with their ministers and Congress members. It was said that the meeting was not very urgent. Nothing was mentioned about the disembarkation of more marines and soldiers. And...ind. declared that the Dominican people should have opportunity to choose their destiny, political development, liberty, etc. Miric thinks this shows a move to pacify Latin America.

Keel 72-AICO-37
