24. References. List three persons living in the United States or Territories of the United States who are not related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not repeat a name of a secretary listed under Item 16 (Experience).

References: Col. E. Rasmussen — Diplomatic See, Exp. Dept., 45; military attaché. Mr. Yutaka Kunakata — President of Kenton, Calif.; instructor. Lt. L.B. McNeil — 1928 McKinley Ave., Honolulu, T.H.; CIC.

Indicate “Yes” or “No” by placing “X” in the proper column.

May indicate if you are a present employer regarding your character, qualifications, etc. Yes.

Are you an official or employee of any state, territory, county, or municipality? No.

Are you a citizen of or do you have allegiance to the United States? Yes.

Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity any relative of you, by blood or marriage, with whom you live or have lived within the past 12 months? No.

Are you now or had you ever been a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., or any Communist organization?

Are you now or had you ever been a member of a Fascist organization?

Are you now or had you ever been a member of any organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government, or an organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which has accepted a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to any other plans, decisions, or ordinances of the United States or under the Constitution of the United States by unconstitutional means?

If your answer is “Yes,” show in Item 39 for each relative: (1) full name; (2) present address; (3) relationship; (4) department or agency by which employed; and (5) kind of appointment.

Special instructions for claiming veteran preference. A. If you are claiming preference as a peacetime veteran who has been awarded a campaign badge or service ribbon, or as a disabled veteran, or as the wife of a disabled veteran, or as the widow of a war or campaign veteran, attach Veteran Preference Claim, CSC Form 14, together with proof specified therein. B. If you are a wartime veteran not claiming disability preference, you should not submit your discharge with
