Fitness Report. Employee serial number: 036130.

Section A: General.

1. Name: Flores Daniel.  
2. Date of birth: 4 August 1935. M, GS-11 D.  
6. Official position title: Ops Officer.  
7. Office/Division/Branch of assignment: DDP/WH/3 Lima.  
9. Type of appointment: Career.  
10. Type of report: Reserve; Temporary; Special (specify).  
11. Date report due in O.P.: 31 August 1972.  
12. Reporting period: 24 September 1971–30 June 1972.

Section B: Performance Evaluation.

U—Unsatisfactory: Performance is unacceptable. A rating in this category requires immediate and positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

M—Marginal: Performance is deficient in some aspects. The reasons for assigning this rating should be stated in Section C and remedial actions taken or recommended should be described.

P—Proficient: Performance is satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in the manner expected.

S—Strong: Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O—Outstanding: Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

Specific Duties.

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs each specific duty. Consider only effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities must be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

Specific Duty No. 1: Direction of and administrative support for three outside principal agents whose efforts he directs against the Communist Party, extreme left and labor targets. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 2: Coordinator of all Station operations against the left, including management of the project covering this activity. Rating letter: S.

Specific Duty No. 3: Case officer in charge of the Station's labor reporting assets. Rating letter: P.

Specific Duty No. 4.
