Washington Post Article, dated 30 November 1949.

Chambers has testified that he approached Berle in 1939 to warn him of Communist activities in the U.S.

Chambers has also accused Hiss of feeding him State Department secrets before the war in wholesale fashion. Hiss was indicted for perjury when he denied ever giving Chambers state documents or even seeing him after January 1, 1937.

Hiss was tried for perjury last spring, but a jury split eight for conviction and four for acquittal, and a new trial was ordered.

The second report in the form of twin memos on the underground was full of some of the names from Franklin D. Roosevelt's early New Deal. The individuals were described as “anti-administration” at the time.

The names came out in memos written by Raymond Murphy, security officer of the State Department, who made notes of two talks in 1945 and 1946 with Chambers.

The underground's purpose was said in the memos to be “far more important and cunning” than spying.

“Each member was to advance as high as possible in the Government to shape legislation favorable to the program of the Communist government,” read the hitherto secret reports.

Named in the memos were: Alger Hiss and his brother, Donald Hiss (HISs); Harold Ware, Lee Pressman, Henry Collins, Charles Kramer (Krivitzky), Helen Ware, Alice Merdeham, Harry Dexter White (WHITTE), Nathan Kaplan, Rose Wynstein, Nathan Witt, John Abt, Eleanor Nelsch, Nat Perlow, and persons identified by their last names only, as Cdier, Glass and Coe.

The guiding genius of the entire underground was identified as Hungarian-born J. Peters, a “little dark fellow, small feet and wavy black hair.”

Top man and founder of the 10-man Washington cells was said to be the late Harold Ware, who died in 1936, and was allegedly succeeded by Nathan Witt and later by John Abt.

Immediately below him in order of importance, the reports charged, were Lee Pressman, former general counsel of the CIO, and Alger Hiss, later to become a top-level State Department aide.

The memos said Hiss' job “was never to make converts—his job was to mess up policy.”

The Government aides Chambers accused were said in the memos to have “arranged among themselves a program committing this Government to a policy in keeping with the desires of the Communists.”
