He stated that he was in the export-export business and that he dealt in gold. He said that he had come to Panama to see a man by the name of SIS, a gold dealer from Buenos Aires, about gold shipments.

6. On 8 July, Minister of Government Alfredo MURRAY reported the matter to the U.S. Ambassador, stating that prior to arriving in Panama the plane had been signaled, that all was not well at the airport, and that the crew had jettisoned cargo prior to arrival. (A check with the Air Force authorities does not confirm that any such message was sent, and MURRAY denies that anything was jettisoned. He insisted that he was coming to Panama to discuss the gold business but that he had no cargo.) The Minister also advised the Ambassador that PASTOR Ponce had been fired as Head of the Airport.

7. In a conversation with PASTOR Ponce and MURRAY on the night of 8 July, (LEROI) was advised that PASTOR Ponce had, in fact, been fired and that he was determined to bump off Toni ARIAS. Both MURRAY and PASTOR Ponce claimed that Toni ARIAS was behind it all but that PASTOR Ponce was the fall guy.

8. The Mexican referred to, Cristobal VILLAR, and the Mexican, Zorrillo (ZORrillo), are believed to be identical. SIS has been identified as FORMOSA, a gold dealer who operates in Buenos Aires and Montevideo. Civil Intelligence Section has advised that SIS was staying with Toni ARIAS and that U.S. had departed from Panama hastily. CIS also advised that President ARIAS at first had given orders for the dismissal of both his nephews, Toni ARIAS and PASTOR Ponce, but it was later agreed that Toni ARIAS would not be fired to avoid a public scandal involving the President's family.

9. The present status of the matter is that the plane has been searched with negative results, that the plane is still being held by the Panamanian authorities, and that MURRAY and others are endeavoring by every means possible to secure the release of the plane. The head of the Zocatén Airport, PASTOR Ponce, has been dismissed, and Toni ARIAS, the President's nephew, will probably be allowed to withdraw from his position gracefully.
