The friendship of peoples of the Near and Middle East toward the United States and to combat Communism. It was incorporated as a voluntary, non-profit membership corporation under the laws of New York State. Dorothy Thompson, columnist, was elected as chairman. In early 1967 AINE received a good deal of newspaper publicity concerning its Agency affiliation, including articles in the Soviet press, TASS, and USAR International Affairs. Syria was the only country in which AINE is active that raised the question of the organization's continued existence in light of allegations of Agency financial support, although there were rumblings in Iraq.

San Jacinto Fund

There is no OS subject file on the San Jacinto Fund. The attached memorandum dated 30 January 1967 from Chief, Central Cover Group, to Deputy Director, Plans—“Threat of Exposure of Agency Operations”—stated that RAMPARTS has expressed intense interest in the San Jacinto Fund, and its sources of income in particular, because it funds 5 KEEPSTONE activities (youth affairs).

M. D. Anderson Foundation

There is no OS subject file on the M. D. Anderson Foundation, but OS indices reflect a file on the M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute.

A study program to determine the effects in diverse biological systems resulting from exposure to high-intensity coherent radiation was contracted with the M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute, University of Texas, Houston, Texas, in October 1963, but as of 16 April 1964 there was a hold order against going ahead with the contract because of a question as to why the Agency should bear the whole cost of the contract, which was to be for interdepartmental use. In May 1967, a note in the file indicated that M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute would be engaged in classified work for the Agency. There was no record of a clearance issued.

Marshall Foundation

See attached memorandum dated 30 January 1967 from Chief, Central Cover Group, to Deputy Director, Plans—“Threat of Exposure of Agency Operations.” The Marshall Foundation of Houston, Texas, is considered one of the most vulnerable to exposure.

A New York Times article for 26 February 1967 disclosed that the Marshall Foundation of Houston, Texas, channeled funds from the Agency to the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University from 1961 to 1963.

(See Douglas B. Marshall)
