Bulgaria Rejects Cuban Sugar Shipment

Last month the Economic Research Bureau (ERB) reported the establishment of a Soviet-Cuban quality control organization to undertake steps to maintain the quality of Cuban sugar. This organization, which incidentally has been patterned along the administrative guidelines and regulations of the Soviet Union, has been made necessary by the increasing difficulties the Soviet refineries are having with Cuban raws. The phenomenon of declining quality of Cuban sugar is further pointed up by Bulgaria's rejection of the first Cuban sugar shipment to that country from the 1966 harvest. This rejection, which occurred last August, was due to the high moisture content of the Cuban sugar. The source of this information is the Cuban Institute for Sugar Research.

Cuban Central Committee Member Recognizes Mistakes

Carlos Rafael Rodríguez, one of the key figures of the Partido Socialista Popular (name under which the Cuban Communist Party operated from 1939 to 1962), former head of INRA (Castro's National Agrarian Reform Institute), and presently a member of the Central Committee of the Cuban Communist Party, was interviewed by Josef Timmer, correspondent for Budapest's NEPSZÁVA, on September 16, 1966. The Economic Research Bureau has considered Timmer's statements a sound explanation of the real economic situation existing in Cuba. Therefore, we believe our readers will be interested in excerpts from NEPSZÁVA's story of its interview with Timmer:

Sugar:

"We exert our greatest efforts in the sugar industry. Despite this—unfortunately—we failed to attain our objectives this year and did not even come close to the 1965 results, primarily because of natural disasters, particularly a great drought. We would like to harvest 6.5 million tons of sugar cane next year and attain a record output by 1968." (*)

Industrial and agricultural productivity:

"Industrial and agricultural productivity diminished after the revolution. Many people think that one must work less under socialism than under capitalism and, consequently, do not fulfill the legal working time. It is also true that this is partly due to the fact that work is not organized with sufficient care, particularly in agriculture. Moreover, serious problems are caused by the fact that the working people are not paid according to their output. Remuneration according to output, is, nevertheless, applied in agriculture, but we have not managed to introduce it in industry yet."

Skilled personnel:

"The shortage of experts is a very great problem. Imagine what tremendous

(*) ERB note: This constitutes a contradiction of Castro's stated goals. The Perspective Sugar Plan called for a 7.5 billion-ton mark for 1967 and Castro has stressed this figure in his speeches over and over again.
