Continuation of Dispatch. North Carolina Provincial Department. KY-MA-31164.

4. The set-up in the old as well as the new base is the following:

The equipment—camera, scope and tripod—is mounted in one bedroom behind Venetian blinds with one slat removed. This room is locked to keep servants or any chance intruder from entering. The operators do not spend all their time behind the camera, but go to the adjoining bedroom where a table and typewriter are set up and where the daily logs are transcribed, knitting done, or some other activity that does not require full concentration is carried out.

The curtains and blinds in this room are kept partially or fully open to allow good visibility and provide a normal appearance. Most of the daily movement of the Soviet personnel is followed from this room and when it is necessary to take pictures of visitors, unknown persons or newly arrived Soviets, the operators go to the other room and use the pre-set equipment.

5. OERENDE's Comment. It seems to me that any careful observation by the Soviets would have revealed the tell-tale position of the Venetian blinds in both the old and the new bases. I have no doubt that the Soviets realize they are under photo surveillance. The move by the family from the old to the new building must surely have been noted by the Soviets. Possibly the Soviets think the family is working with the local authorities due to LIEMPTY-13's former association with the Mexican Army.

6. Station Comments. The Station agrees with OERENDE that careful observation by the Soviets would have revealed the missing slat in the Venetian blinds and also the fact that those blinds are seldom open. The Station also agrees that the Soviets realize that they are under photo surveillance.

This was pointed out recently when a Soviet shielded an LNERGO walk-in when they passed the front gate of the Embassy and made a sign to the walk-in indicating that they could be seen by someone watching with a telescope from the buildings across the street. Also, as Headquarters is aware, there have been numerous comments by residents of Mexico City to the effect that anyone entering the Soviet Embassy is photographed; however, seldom has it been rumored that the "Americans" are doing it, which might indicate most people believe the Mexican Government is doing any such photographing and thereby reaffirming OERENDE's statement that the Soviets possibly believe the Mexican Government runs the base.

7. Given the assumption that the LILYRIC base is blown, the Station at this point does not plan to terminate or revamp the LILYRIC installation.

Any operational change by the operators would be spotted by the Soviets and if the base were closed the Soviets would start looking for a new installation.

The LILYRIC Base is performing a useful function and it is believed that it will continue to do so. The Soviets have had opportunities to complain to the Mexican Government about being monitored photographically and have not seen fit to do so and it is believed that they probably will not do so unless there is a radical change in Soviet and/or Mexican policy. The Station has instructed OERENDE to take every precaution during his meetings with LIEMPTY-13 to assure that LIEMPTY-13 does not lead the Soviets to him and thereby jeopardizing other operations, especially LICALLA.

8. The operator of the LIMITED Base, LIEMPTY-6, is, to my knowledge, the oldest hand in the photo surveillance of the Soviet target and possibly the most likely to be "burned". His residence for years at the former Base, now the site of the new LILYRIC building, and his move to the present base could not have gone unnoticed by the Soviets. His cover is that of an insurance salesman, but he actually does not work at the cover and is at a disadvantage in trying to explain his source of income. At times, in years past, he had to afford full-time coverage from the base, which allowed him no time to engage in credible cover activities.

9. OERENDE Comments. I do not believe that LIEMPTY-6/LIMITED is a security risk; however, his present means of working from an open door leading to his balcony probably can be spotted by the Soviets. LIEMPTY-6 is extremely cautious about checking himself for surveillance when making meetings.
