Attachment #1

July 31, 1969.

Subject: LIBACON-1 (P-4805) — LOGINOV (P-11,712): Meet at Restaurant Fonda del Retiro on July 28 at 1500 hours.

1. The meet was prearranged, and L-1 was in front of the restaurant four minutes before LOGINOV (LOG). The meet lasted about 90 minutes.

Their next meet: Friday, August 8, at LOGINOV's apartment at Ignacio Esteva 21/2 at 1900 hours.

2. No cocktails were taken before the meal, and with the meal beer was drank. LOGINOV (LOG) led off with questions concerning L-1's family, health, work, and entertainment.

3. Among questions concerning L-1's work, there were also questions concerning LIOVAL-1: Was L-1 giving him classes regularly? Was LIOVAL-1 asking L-1 questions about the USSR or Soviet officials? Did LIOVAL-1 make any statements which would show “how he breszes politically” (sic)? L-1 gave a routine answer, pointing out that LIOVAL-1 does not hesitate to speak about his family matters and work, but he never asks questions of any kind; he takes his language classes regularly; there were no statements concerning political matters.

4. L-1 told LOGINOV (LOG) that on July 24 or 25, a young man, Victor I. RAMOS, called on him in the evening at home and told him that he needed a translation of about 20 pages of Russian text into Spanish, that he was sent by LOGINOV (LOG), and asked him who the person was. LOGINOV (LOG) stated that he did not know the person and, since it was a matter of translation, he sent him to L-1, hoping that he might earn some money by making the translation. L-1 asked LOGINOV (LOG) whether he knew that RAMOS spoke some Russian, which he learned at the IIORM. LOGINOV (LOG) stated that he was not aware of that fact. L-1 will make the translation if he can handle the terminology dealing with economy.

5. L-1 told LOGINOV (LOG) that he spoke to K. MUNOZ about the Soviet film and that MUNOZ was pleased with the offer. Due to the fact that MUNOZ is presently undergoing treatment, he was not able to make arrangements for showing the film. In reply to LOGINOV's (LOG's) question, L-1 stated that MUNOZ wanted to show the films in the Communist Party Centro (SIO) at MUNOZ...
