Dispatch. To: Chief, AF. Info: Chief, EE: WH; SR: KUPLUM. From: Chief, Coordination & Support Base, Frankfurt. Subject: WIROGUE — Final Resettlement of WIROGUE 6/10/84 7/7.

1. WIROGUE, former REDSOX agent candidate and African Division agent, has been quitclaimed and resettled on the local economy. This dispatch summarizes the WIROGUE case from May 1962 to March 1964.

2. Subject arrived in Frankfurt/Main from the Congo on 22 May 1962. KUBARK's reasons for establishing contact were dictated by the need to relieve Subject of his KUBARK-supplied false Austrian passport, the need to institute or suggest a course of action which would encourage him to establish himself as a contributing member of society and, above all, prevent his return to the Congo.

3. Subject appeared to be primarily a resettlement problem; therefore, Orme K. DARONNAT was assigned the Case Officer responsibility.

4. Since adequate documentation was a primary consideration for successful resettlement, Subject was briefed on the relative merits of the types of FEDREP documentation available. Although Headquarters had recommended a backstopped Fremdenpass, subsequent discussions between DARONNAT and MKTOPAZ FRAN representatives indicated a Reiseausweis to be the proper document for permanent resettlement. With the cooperation of ODIBEX Camp King representatives, Subject was interviewed and granted political recognition on the basis of a fabricated story in which he claimed to be a Georgian who defected from East Berlin while with a tourist group.

5. The WIROGUE case suffered a temporary setback when in December 1962 the BUNDESVERFASSUNGSSCHUTZ (BFV), the West German organization responsible for the internal security of the FEDREP, became interested in Subject and requested all available information. HARVARD briefed OCA Bonn that Subject was strictly a HARVARD agent resettlement case whose name, recognition interview story, etc. were complete fabrications to insure his receiving political recognition and a Reiseausweis. OCA advised the BFV that Subject was of continuing AIS interest and HARVARD resumed its resettlement efforts.

Cross reference to: D 32W-120-12/1. Date typed: 4 June 64. Dispatch symbol and number: EGOA-21573. Headquarters file number: 32W-120-012/01.
