1. Review of trial evidence received on Bosch, which might be offending, tends to indicate that Bosch has probably been in DomRep since the early part of April 1976, following deportation from Costa Rica.

2. ENGARNET-1, a Santo Domingo asset with good access to the local Cuban exile community and to the Dominican chief of police, Gen. Nivar (Neit M I V A R), reported to Balaguer on 5 April 1976 that Bosch was in DomRep, that he had arrived from Costa Rica with a false name, and that the Costa Rican passport was provided by GOCR. Entry to DomRep was approved by Dominican President Balaguer. ENGARNET-1 confronted Nivar with this information, who subsequently raised the question with Balaguer. Balaguer reportedly admitted to Nivar that he had allowed Bosch to travel to DomRep on “humanitarian” grounds so that Bosch could receive a “cataract operation.” An article in the San Jose newspaper La Nacion, as well as an FBI report dated 8 April 1976 from a “highly-placed Accion Cubana source in Puerto Rico,” also indicated that Bosch was defected and flown to DomRep from Costa Rica.

3. EMPREDICT coverage indicated that Bosch was in DomRep by at least 27 April and that he had been arrested by an unknown Dominican security service on that date. Chief of Dominican liaison (Libison) told the station that he would take no investigative action since he was convinced that the “matter [was] being handled out of the palace by President Balaguer.” Bosch liaison reported that, as of 3 May 1976, Bosch had been staying at the Hotel Cervantes in Santo Domingo.

4. The FBI report just received, and being pouched to Santo Domingo, commented on recent Cuban rightist meetings held in Santo Domingo that included Bosch’s participation. One meeting was held on 12 June at a “house located atop a mountain near Santo Domingo.” There are few, if any, high mountains in the immediate vicinity of Santo Domingo. However, General Nivar is famous for his house “located in the clouds” on top of a high mountain near San Cristobal and Bani, west of Santo Domingo. In view of indications of presidential interest in this case, is it possible that Nivar might be closer to the action than he has admitted to date? A.
