achievements, then he is a failure.

24. Subject feels that apart from the academic progress at school, he learned that it was necessary to communicate, to express himself, to understand and to explain. He feels that these are necessary for one to be a member of society.

25. Subject feels his mother was a major influence in his life. He is disappointed in his mother because he feels he loved her but she deserted him through suicide. He feels she sacrificed herself completely for the children and that she killed herself because she no longer knew how to distribute love and care. Subject began to lose regard for his father from the time he realized that his father was not giving his mother affection. However, he identifies with his father in the respect that both never achieved anything significant and that they both may have disappointed the mother. Subject misses his mother's love and he feels his life was broken up when she died. He found himself completely alone and all his illusions disappeared. He tried to find affection through others. He feels the need for affection is a big part of himself but on the other hand, “I am a complicated person.”

26. Subject claims he has learned the difference between a man and a woman. This is likely to have a good deal of meaning to him, particularly as regards his relationship with his mother. He regards women as illogical and to be determined by a psycho-feminine education. This is enough to tip us off that he should not be exposed to handling by females.

27. Subject claims he has learned from his personal experience in life rather than from the experience of others. In other words, he has educated himself in the school of life and has derived little from the actual formal school situation. For example, he claims his mother's opinions had importance only at the time she was rendering her opinions; thereafter they were not influential as far as he was concerned. This may be important as regards training. It is likely that he would prefer to proceed with the task in actuality rather than to learn about performing the task through the experiences or training of others.

28. Subject joined the French Foreign Legion at the beginning of the war. As a foreigner and as an, he was subject to
