Dispatch. Desensitized.

Subject: Chief, AMBASSADOR. I am not authorized to provide this information.

Date: Chief of Station, Caracas. Please note: This message will be delivered upon delivery.

Priority: Priority.

Action required: For your information. Reference: BIA 98189.

1. Ref cable raises a number of fundamental issues of concern to Caracas Station. In brief, we do not welcome an activation of the movement's center in Caracas, an event which would greatly complicate our operational situation. We have reasons for believing that the host government likewise would probably be embarrassed if AMBIDAY I chose Venezuela as a base for whatever program he is planning to undertake. Repeated failures of his attempts at being received by President LACMI are significant in this context.

3. Since we must assume that AMBIDAY I has alluded to his close ties with EBRARK (and more specifically with BECKHOFF), the Venezuelan security services may well jump to the conclusion that AMBIDAY is in fact an EBRARK operation and sooner or later we would be forced to disavow AMBIDAY I, a circumstance of which he would be bound to learn with consequent embitterment. All those predictable developments, Caracas is most anxious to forestall. Needless to say, both BECKHOFF and OFFICE are unhappy about this situation of conflict since it involves a man who, both admire and who (in their opinion) has served COTRIN inter-seet loyally, at times to the detriment of his abiding cause to liberate PRINSIE.

5. For the above reasons, we would welcome indeed if formal and institutional ties between AMBIDAY I and ANUAVA 4 could be put in abeyance, at least to the extent that AMBIDAY I be prevailed upon to pass up Venezuela as a base of operations. This discriminatory approach reflects our awareness that

Distribution: Chief, WMD.

201-567437.

Received dispatch station number: AVCA-12252. Date: 5 April 1969.

Received dispatch station number: (IS APPLICATION IS APPROVED). Date: no date found.

Received dispatch station number: Desensitized. Date: Bol - AMBIDAY/1.

Received dispatch station number: Bol - ANUAVA/4.
