Section IX, continued from page 4.

A. Are you a graduate of a licensed school licensed by the state or territory in which you are now licensed? (X = Yes, O = No)

B. If you have an interested “yes” to above, indicate kind of license and state issuing license. Provide license history number, if known.

HA.

A. First license or certificate (year of issue). J. Latest license or certificate (year of issue).

Ha. MA.

B. If any significant published materials of which you are the author (do not submit copies unless requested), indicate the title, publication date, and type of writing (non-fiction or scientific articles, general interest subjects, novels, short stories, etc.).

Photo coverage and write-up concerning the Silver Jubilee of Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia, which appeared in Life magazine, 11-20-59.

Also assisted Colonel John D. Townsend, U.S.A., in the preparation of his paper during his attendance at the Army War College, on “The Basis of a New Strategy for the Future of the United States Air Force.” (This was submitted to the Air War College on 12-3-59.)

C. Indicate any devices which you have invented and state whether or not they are patented.

Ha.

IA. If public speaking and public relations experience: Giving briefings to all MIG personnel going to Ethiopia from 1958 to present, at the Military Institute Air Towers, Ya.

II. List any professional, academic, or honorary association or society in which you are now a member, or if you are no longer a member of any association, list your position in it.

NA.

Section IX, Employment History.

May 1957 last positive first. Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods, including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during period of unemployment. List all civilian employment by a foreign government, regardless of dates. In completing item 9, “Description of Duties,” consider your experience carefully and provide meaningful, objective statements.

Exclusive dates (prior to 2-25-41 and after 2-25-41 to present).

Address (No., street, city, state, country): P.O. Box 1738, Va.

Rank of business: U.S.A.

Title of job: Photography.

Description of duties: Photography, all types of lab work for Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence.

Reasons for leaving: Retiring from active duty 7-31-61.

Name of employing firm or agency: U.S. Army.

Subject to supervisory: Colonel Angelo Fella.

Period.
