II. Preference for Next Assignment

11. Describe directions the type of duty you would prefer for next assignment if different from that indicated in item No. 9 above. If you have more than one preference, indicate your choice.

At this point in my career the Soviet and Chinese targets are of major interest to me. Although I would prefer to work on Chinese operations in my next assignment, as an alternative I would consider working on Soviet operations.

11D. Indicate if you desire to extend your current tour by checking the appropriate box. Also indicate preference for next regular assignment by inserting 1, 2, and 3 (for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice) in remaining boxes. Complete all alternate choices and options in all cases even though you are requesting an extension of your tour.

Extend tour 14 months at current station to 31 November 1974.

Be assigned to headquarters for a tour of duty. Indicate your choice of division, staff or office, 1st choice, 2nd choice, 3rd choice.

Be assigned to another field station. Indicate choice of geographic area or specialization, 1st choice, 2nd choice, 3rd choice: Buenos Aires.

Return to my current station.

To be completed by Field Station.

7. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee and his preference for next assignment, indicate your recommendation for his next assignment and training.

Concur. This officer is doing a good job on his assigned targets and his overall abilities give the Station a flexibility it often needs to call on.

To be completed by appropriate headquarters office.

13. In consideration of the experience and performance of the employee, his preference for next assignment, and the staffing requirements of your component, indicate your component's recommendation for his next assignment and training.

Subject's tour has been extended fourteen months to 31 November 1974.

Date 4/23/73. Title C/MU/Pers. Signature H.L. Berthold.

For use by Cavalier Service.

14. Approved assignment.

15. Employees notified of departure No. HPI-S-328A. Date: Typed 23 Apr 73. Cabinet No. Dated:

Cabinet assembly reportrate. Reproducible. Date.
