Section IX. Qualifications for Other Operations. 1. Indicate special abilities, talents, or qualifications possessed by subject which could conceivably be of value for other operations. Claims to be good at documentation forgetfulness. States he engineered the escape of several French officers from German imprisonment during WWII.

Section X. Commitments. 1. If it is proposed to pay subject a regular salary, indicate the weekly amount. If payment to be made in exchange for commodities, subsidy or other method, specify and give details. No specific salary or other commitment has as yet been offered. Subject but it is felt he should receive approximately $600 per month while in training and debriefing status with no guaranteed bonus but provisions made for possible maximum bonus of $10,000, which could also be used as death benefits.

Section XI. CE and Security. 1. Indicate the field agencies and field files with which subject's name has been checked and the results. Field traces thru Paris Station reveal subject was imprisoned in 1936 for a brief period after which he was released in the custody of his mother. Imprisoned in 1950 for robbery and presently on parole from prison in custody of his brother.

Section XII. Evaluate subject's character, reliability and security, citing evidence where possible. History of impulsive actions indicate subject has nerve and daring. Although the psychologist feels subject “is likely to be loyal to a person whom he regards as his superior,” his impulsiveness and immaturity would make him a handling problem. It has been reported that he is an exhibitionist and an egotist but his personality includes the fact that he reflects a superior intelligence.

Section XIII. Use of Liquor, Drugs: Gambling, Paranurs. 1. Explain any situation or indiscretion in which subject may have been involved which must be evaluated from a CE/operational security viewpoint. No reflected in files.

Section XIV. Subject's Personal Habits. Files do not indicate excessive habits.
