30 January 1967

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Cocktail Party with Official Bloc Representatives

1. At a party given by the local head of the Consular Corps Association on 28 June, the undersigned met and again chatted with Valentin S. Loginov of the Soviet Embassy. He also met for the first time Jan Jakowiec of the Polish Embassy, who was introduced to the undersigned by Loginov.

2. As usual, Loginov spent most of the time conversing with the undersigned, provoking him on a number of issues. The undersigned answered, making a few similar comments about the Chinese Civil War. When Loginov mentioned Vietnam, the undersigned felt it would be nice if the Soviets helped the U.S. to bring peace to that area so they could concentrate more on the Chinese Communist danger. At one point in the conversation, the undersigned jokingly asked Loginov if there were Soviet nationals in North Vietnam. The latter said, “Sure, we have many advisors there.” The undersigned said, “No, what he meant was behind guns or in the seats of airplanes.” Loginov said absolutely not.

It also seems that Loginov has been keeping track of the people he sees the undersigned talking with at cocktail parties. For example, Loginov was curious to know if the undersigned had seen “his Haitian friends.” The undersigned asked which one—the black one or the white one. Loginov said the white one, referring to the Haitian Vice Consul whom the undersigned occasionally talks to. The undersigned said he had seen the Haitian at Haitian National Day about a month ago, but noted that the only Soviet present at that party was Andreyev, not Loginov. The latter, incidentally, corners the Haitians anytime he has a chance to, although he officially poo-poos the Haitian regime.

Loginov once more asked the undersigned when he would come play tennis with him (this is about the fourth or fifth time). The undersigned told him he would do so after he gets invited by Loginov, as the latter has often promised to do. One of the topics that Loginov mentioned was the Protection Section of the Embassy. “Protection against whom,” he asked. The undersigned gave him the usual lowdown on the number of tourists to Mexico and their problems. Loginov must have been interested in the section, as he mentioned that a U.S. Vice-Consul working in that section whom he had met recently would be transferring to another post.

Files: P-11712, P-9097
