Office of Personnel.

Section E: Narrative Description of Manner of Job Performance.

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions for improvement. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development. Assessments of ability and performance in the present position are made without consideration for future personnel actions.

Subject is a young, aggressive Case Officer assigned to this station since 3 February 1960. Prior to his assignment to this post, he was a JOT. Subject's greatest strength lies in the fact that he is extremely willing to undertake any task assigned to him regardless of its desirability, difficulty or the project's time consuming properties. Once given an assignment, Subject requires a minimum of supervision. Subject is especially suited to new assignments because of his adaptability to new circumstances. Subject's worst handicap is his youth coupled with his low grade in respect to the supervisory responsibilities assigned him. It is believed this person is a good candidate for advancement in view of his outstanding performance at this Station.

It will be noted that Subject is rated very highly in Sections B, C and D. These ratings are well earned by Subject in his own right and are even more pronounced when considered in respect to the performance of other more senior officers at this Station.

Section F: Certification and Comments.

1. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

Date: 19 December 1960. Signature of employee: /s/ Thomas J. Keenan.

Months employee has been under my supervision: 10 months.

By Supervisor. If this report has not been shown to employee, give explanation.

Employer under my supervision less than 90 days. Report made within last 90 days.

Date: 19 December 1960. Official title of supervisor: IO/PI. Typed or printed name and signature: /s/ Frank R. Estaneza.

3. By Reviewing Official.

X: I should have given this employee about the same evaluation.

I should have given this employee a higher evaluation.

I should have given this employee a lower evaluation.

I cannot judge these evaluations. I am not sufficiently familiar with the employee's performance.

Comments of Reviewing Official.

Date: 19 December 1960. Official title of reviewing official: Chief of Station.
