Class is now studying organization of rural cooperatives. Silvano POZO is chief instructor for this phase and will be sent to Panama as soon as the classes in Miami are completed.

d. A-1 has bought a small farm (22 acres) near West Palm Beach to develop as a model farm for his training program. He is installing generators, water pumps, and starting to raise chickens, etc. He hopes eventually to bring a few students at a time from Latin America as his program progresses to show them what can be done with small plots if proper farming techniques are used.

e. A-1 received another message from Bolivia saying in effect that the situation was still about the same and again asking if he were able to visit there. He stalled them again (at our request) and agreed to be out of town or otherwise scheduled until the matter dies a natural death.

2. The West German Government has issued scholarships paying all tuition plus $100 per month subsistence in German universities to three of A-1's people who have been living in Spain. They will go to Germany in August to study the language for six months then begin their studies. They are Angel LAVANDERA, economics; Carlos MAYO, engineering; and Luis CAVADA, engineering. This is follow-up to the meeting A-1 had in Rome with the German Ambassador that was arranged for him by the Vatican Secretary of State last December.

3. A-1 is leaving 13 or 14 July for about 10 to 15 days visiting Central America. He will go to Nicaragua first to talk with President Schick and General Somoza, then to Monkey Point to check on the condition of the base, security of the arms he has cached there, and to observe the civic action training his men there are conducting for the local Indians. He will then go to Costa Rica to talk with President Orlich and Foreign Minister Oduber, who have sent word they would like to meet with him as soon as convenient for him. From there he will go to Panama to see President Marcos Robles, who has been expecting him for several weeks. A-1 will describe the project he is about to enter with Bishop McGrath and Professor Lodge and confirm President Robles' attitude toward it. A-1 will also visit Veraguas Province and look over the training center.

4. I also informed A-1 that his proposal to maintain U.S. support for the MRR to pay for support to dependents and
