Section C. Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide the best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds must be commented on if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Hicks has been with the force for almost 2 years and is a dependable and thoroughly reliable member of the team. He brings to his work a fine operational background and a sense of operational security which is of great assistance in the exercise of sound judgment on dissemination matters. He has an instinct for prompt recognition of problem cases and is imaginative in his approach to problems of under-enlightening of the reader and the opposite extreme of lax source protection.

He is careful and meticulous in his work, level headed and sound in his judgments. He knows how to balance the customer demand for speed and enlightenment against the equally important demands for source protection. He stands up well under pressure, is cooperative and congenial with his colleagues and with the divisional personnel with whom he is in contact. Neither cost consciousness nor supervision is a factor in his performance.

Narrative Comments. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report.

Certification and Comments. By Employee. I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, and C of this report. Date: 28 March 1969. Signature of employee: Calvin S. Stock.

By Supervisor. Months employee has been under my supervision: 16. Date: 28 March 1969. Official title of supervisor: Chief, FI/IMT/M. Typed or printed name and signature: Edward J. Carroll.

Date: 28 March 1969. Official title of reviewing official: Chief,
