# U.R. Letter to Greek Government Urges Galbe Ouster

Cases of real diplomats Alemany and Alonso (Alon so) cited as contrast to preposterous behavior of the gangster Galbe.

Here is text of letter sent to the Foreign Affairs and Interior Ministers of Greece:

Excellency:

"You may recall that, in mid-May this year, the Communist Cuban Charge d'Affaires in Athens, Jose Luis Galbe, was the object of world attention after he shot a Greek bus driver over a trivial traffic argument near the town of Thermopylae. Newspapers throughout the world carried the story and it would not be exaggerated to label the incident as an international scandal—one which may be said to have damaged Hellenic dignity to the same extent to which the Castro regime ignores it by accrediting gangsters such as Galbe as its diplomatic representatives—before the Greek people."

"On that occasion, we wrote the Greek government calling their attention to the need to save the honor of Greece by severing all ties—diplomatic and commercial—with the Red government of Cuba. At that time, we warned that the gangster Galbe was typical of the new promotion of Red Cuban 'diplomats'—mostly undesirable Communists trained to perform tasks of espionage and agitation—and substantiated our assertion with a quote from Odon Alvarez de la Campa, a defecting Cuban diplomat who had charged Galbe by name during a press conference in Madrid."

"Today, two new defections from the Cuban Foreign Service prompt us to re-open the Galbe case. We refer to those of Mssrs. Gilberto R. Alemany Vilar, until recently, Trade Counselor to the Cuban Embassy in Tokyo, and Luis Ricardo Alonso Fernandez, until recently, Cuban Ambassador to Great Britain."

"Both former diplomats had always been regarded as competent, serious men even by us, the relentless opposers of the Castro-Communist tyranny. Before he took office as Cuban Ambassador to the United Kingdom in 1963, Luis R. Alonso Fernandez had also performed ambassadorial duties in Peru and Norway. A scholarly, well-mannered man, he is well remembered by all who knew him in his diplomatic office, even if they may have disapproved of the totalitarian regime that he represented. Eventually, he became disenchanted with Communism and publicly resigned his post in London only a few days ago. (In connection with Mr. Alonso's resignation, the Greek newspaper 'Tradyni,' in its September 6 issue, wonders (won ders) precisely why Red Cuban Ambassador Galbe has not been ousted yet)."

"Gilberto R. Alemany, an equally able and well-bred trade specialist, held his Counselor's position for three years in Tokyo. His recognition of the true nature of the Red Cuban government led him to defect secretly and become our own secret agent in Japan. Late last month, after fulfilling his dangerous mission, he made his feelings public in Miami."

"As you can see, those decent people, who are still active in Castro's diplomatic corps cannot stand it for a long time. These new defections show that the few that remain are abandoning the sinking ship to the 'new wave' of Castroite diplomats—gangsters, spies and agitators in Galbe's fashion."

"But there is more: shortly after his defection, in an interview with a leading Miami newspaper, Mr. Alemany made statements that confirm our assertions to this respect. The following are quotes from this interview:

'The Fidel Castro government chooses unemployed, uneducated young men to be trained and assigned to Cuban embassies abroad as spies. They were at

AF6A 23384
