lffl 50955 
\ 
I 
.) SECRETl 
grant for research would be difficult as 
Source is not what could be called a re~ 
search type nor would he have freedom of 
movement, and he would not have a reasonable 
excuse for being in certain areas and asking 
certain questions of interest. If a cover is 
given, for instance for writing a book, it is 
believed that this cover would be limited and 
would preclude Source moving in certain areas 
of interest, i.e., if he were to write a book 
on....--,~---:-.-----,---.,.......,---' he could logically talk on the subject and intervi~w 
persons knowledgeable, visit the Hill and some 
of the press, but it seems doubtful to us that 
he could convert this into matters of specific 
interest to us. 
"3. Could our Source obtain a position 
as full-time employee or perhaps stringer of 
a going organization such as a Washington news 
bureau or magazine of the type of 'Newsweek' or 
'World Report'? 
"1r ~ve wotild r1~u-1ce .iJ!,::itim;:l.r:e,y o, 01":t'"l'.'­
wise our Source in such a position, this might 
be very limiting. In other words, Source 
could be confined to desk work and have no ac­
cess at all to the actual operations of the 
magazine or getting about Washington as a leg 
man and reporter. The chance also exists that 
if he were able to -Obtain such an assignment, 
because of his contacts he might be sent out of 
town immediately. Furthermore, Source does not 
necessarily have the background of taking a 
position as editor or similar type 1-1ith any 
established news bureau or magazine. Further­
more, if through various Washington connections 
we were to approach an established magazine and 
ask for a 'roving' assignment of Source, it is 
most likely that the magazine editor or owner 
would turn down the idea automatically. Finally, 
j in this connection, a possibility may exist that 
Source, himself, using his Cuban stories and 
entree, sell himself as a stringer to some Wash-
ington news bureau or magazine, but probably only 
,·~.~ng out of New York. ,, fl~.i~Jt 
-84-
Docid:32203889 Page 72 
j 
