[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
6..\. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
SECTION 6 .. 
- PART II -
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CON'.t.aCTS 
Requesting authority for release 
a. By teletype 
At least four hours before the time of rele~se, developments in the 
case, an outline of the release, and statement release_ will be made 
UACB are to be furnished the Bureau. 
b. By telephone where time is of esseD,ce 
Confer with division head having supervision of the matter for 
i~vestigative clearance and with the office of the division head of 
the Crime Records Division f:or final pres·s clearance. While good 
judgment must prevail, in important cases in which a local newspa.-per 
deadline is approaching, it may be advisable to telephdne th·e Bureau 
for clearance. • • 
Press releases are to be made personally only by the SAC or ill his absence­
by the .AS.AC. 
Releases are to be made both at headquarters anQ the local area affected 
• by developments, All mat~rial prepared for the public must·be reviewed 
word for word. rt,1is not to contain words or phrases which might be 
regarded as objectionable or offensive to·a member of any race, creed, or 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized wherever 
possible, and all press releases sho-uld be coordinated to eliminate. any 
avoidable delays. 
5 .. In 'the absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the public interest, 
no statement shoul~ be put in an announcement to the pres~ ~o the effect 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
that a subject either has confessed or has admitted his crimes without 
specific Bureau approval. In case of doubt, consult the Bur.eau. When 
_the fact that a subject has given a confession is included in a complaint 
and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press, a ·"no comment" reply s·hould 
be given. The complaint is a court record and must be left to speak for 
its elf. 
On-the-spot announcements by SAC are authorized in emergency situ~tions 
in which good judgment so dictates. Emergency on-the-spot s~atements by 
Agents limited to their official identity and, if known, the identity of 
fugitive or criminal in gun battle. If badly wanted fugitive apprehended 
in remote area and SAC absent, Agent may, in rare emergenc·y only and· where 
t:i.me of essence, furnish bare details. Contact by SAC with press should 
be effected immediately where press desires further details. 
In the normal process of issuing press releases,[television and radio 
me'dia should be merely provided with a ·written copy of the press rel.ease, 
and)Bureau personnel should not submit to live, filmed,[or tape­
recorded interviews of any kind in connection with it.] Tact and 
diplomacy must be exercised in declining to participate in such interviews. 
In the absence of special c.ircumstances, Bureau Agents should never suggest 
or request a reporter or another representative of a newspaper or similar 
publication to withhold the publication of news. In the event that special 
circumstances do exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bureau prior 
to making any such request. 
In· ·cases involving bombings having an apparent racial or religious basis 
with the resultant public interest, the SAC should issue a statement to 
the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to 
actively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them 
every possible c~operative service of the FBI, includ~ng the Bureau's full 
laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by handling 
out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts .that· 
may indicate any Federal violation. At no time should this statement 
indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility for 
the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance of this s+.ate­
ment requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance,_and the 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts .of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press 
release file if exists. 
la 
3-29-65 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 312 
