3-26 (Rev. 3-20-64) 
Director (Place) _______________ _ 
Federal Bureau of Investigation 
United States Departme11t of Justice 
Washington, D. C. 20535 
(Date) 
Dear Sir: 
Having received an appointment for a position as Special Agent in the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, United States Department of Justice, I hereby agree and affirm 
that I shall be governed by the following conditions: 
1. I am required to proceed at my own expense to Washington, D. C., 
where I shall take the oath of office and enter on duty. 
2. That my appointment is a probationary one. 
3. That I shall remain on duty for a minimum period of three years, 
contingent upon a satisfactory work record. 
4. That my retention in the Federal Bureau of Investigation is dependent 
upon the performance of satisfactory services, and if my services are 
deemed unsatisfactory it is understood that my employment may be dis足
continued at any time and that I shall not receive transportation to my 
home, or to any other point, at Government expense. 
5. I may be sent to any part of the continental or territorial Un1ted States 
that the exigencies of the Bureau's work may require; that my head足
quarters may be fixed in some jurisdiction other than that in which I 
have heretofore resided; that my headquarters may be changed as the 
work of the Bureau may require and that no, transfer will be made from 
one station to another for personal reasons. 
6. That the confidential character of the relations of the employees of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation with the public is fully understood 
by me, and that the strictly confidential character of any and all in足
formation secured by me, in connection directly or indirectly with my 
work as a Special Agent, or the work of other employees of which I 
may become cognizant, is fully understood by me, and that neither 
during my tenure of service with the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
nor at any other time shall I violate this confidence, and I agree and 
affirm that I shall not divulge any information of any kind or character 
whatsoever that may become kn9wn to me, to persons not officially 
entitled thereto at any time. 
I understand all of the foregoing and the conditions specified herein are agree足
able to me without reservation of any kind. I agree and affirm that I shall abide by the 
foregoing conditions, and I am fully cognizant that the provisions mentioned above are 
to be complied with by me and they are a part of my appointment. 
NW 38296 Docld:329895'88 50 
