13-00000 
for a provision of the Internal Revenue Code dealing with 
tax return information. This means the Act takes precedence 
over 50 U.S.C. § 403(d) (3) and§ 403g, as well as the 
Privacy Act, when determining whether to release records 
related to the assassination of President Kennedy. The Act 
also makes no provision for protecting information on the 
basis of executive privilege, such as deliberative process 
and attorney-client communications. 
5. Certain categories of information may fall into more 
than one of the grounds set forth in Section 6 of the Act. We 
recommend that you review all of the grounds when determining 
whether to release or withhold specific information. For 
example, a human intelligence source may fall into grounds (1) (A) 
("intelligence agent"), (1) (B) ("intelligence source"), (2) 
("living person who provided confidential information to the 
United States"), and/or_ (4) ("understanding of confidentiali~ 
currently requiring protection between a Government agent and a 
cooperating individual"). At this point, we do not know how the 
Assassination Records Review Board will interpret each of these 
grounds. Therefore, if you determine the standards of the Act 
are met to permit withholding of certain information, you should 
assert as many grounds as may arguably apply as authority for 
that withholding. 
6. Although the Act severely limits what information may be 
withheld from disclosure, it may be possible to protect 
information not expressly covered by the Act. However, such 
information may be withheld only with the personal authorization 
of the President. When the President signed the Act, he issued a 
statement that included the following: 
My authority to protect [executive branch 
deliberations, law enforcement information of the 
executive branch, and national security information] 
comes from the Constitution and cannot be limited by 
statute. Although only the most extraordinary 
circumstances would require postponement of the 
disclosure of documents for reasons other than those 
recognized in the bill, I cannot abdicate my 
constitutional responsibility to take such action when 
necessary. 
7. The Act provides individuals the ability under·the 
Administrative Procedures Act to challenge in court final 
decisions of the Assassination Records Board. We can expect, 
then, court challenges to the Board's decisions to uphold any of 
our determinations that certain information meets the criteria 
for postponement of release. Additionally, as you know, there 
are FOIA litigations for this same material. Plaintiff's counsel 
has indicated in court pleadings and orally that he wants the 
court to review our redactions not under FOIA standards, but 
under the standards of the Act. Thus, you should apply the Act's 
standards knowing your judgments may be questioned by the Board, 
4 
