13-00000 
ctt-rw TEXT-ASSASSINATIONS-2 
a0831 
13:52 05-15 
BC-TEXT-ASSASSINATIONS-2NDADD 
THE REUTER TRANSCRIPT REPORT 
----------------- --- --- -- ------- ---- - ----- -·---·- ---··-- -··- ···•· ·- ---- ----. 
HOUSE-GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS LEGISLATION AND 
SECURITY SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING 
Topic: H.J. Res. 454, Assassination Materials 
of 1992 
' Witness: .CIA Director Robert Gates 
May 15, 1992 
(Second Add) 
***** 
xx x other material. 
" 
NATIONAL 
Disclosure Act 
_ REP. SCHIFF: Well, let me go on to one of the other 
categories, and that is, where the government has given a 
promise of confidentiality, the government ought to keep that. 
Can't the information be released without revealing the 
informant? Because I think it's the information that is desired 
here, not necessarily the-identity of who provided it. 
GATES: My own view, Mr. Schiff, is that that should 
be the case in almost every instance. 
REP. SCHIFF: Finally with respect to intelligence 
methods, I understand that there's a national security_pQint _ 
there. But we are also talking about 30 years ago, 
approximately. 
Are our intelligence-gathering methods so unchanged in 
30 years that you believe that revealing how agencies gather and 
collect and evaluation information would present a national 
security risk today if revealed? _ .. 
GATES: Well, first of- all, if an intelligence method 
is no longer in use, then I think it no longer-~and there's 
little prospect of it ever being used again, I see no reason to 
protect it. , .. 
I think here again, though, that the focus should be 
on the information provided by these sources and methods, rather 
than the identification of the sources and methods themselves. 
The only reason I would seek to protect them is in 
those instances in which those techniques are still being used, 
or we think there is a good chance they will be used again. 
With respect to sources, I think that we have a much 
longer standing commitment to protect them. But again, I'm 
prepared, either under the legislation, through the board that 
would be established, or in the absence of legislation, through 
an outside panel, to let people who are not in the intelligence 
business review any of that material that we had held back to 
see that we had justifiable reasons for doing so. 
REP. SCHIFF: So your overall position; Director 
9 
