13-00000 
:;,look th~ money produced enough 
!SS lo ir1dicat~ deception. The other 
JStion \'i,'1:ch pmduced stress was. "Are 
\vearirig (I rin;iT In fact. his yes to that 
; accqmpanied i:;,y su:h stress as I had 
in only or.cc or twice in the class slides. 
·he next morning Krad..: calli;d on me. 
! the suspect take the money, he asked. 
lid I didn't thi:ik so. Kradz nodded. Did 
suspect v!h0 t-:,ok the m,:rney? Yes. I 
..1ght he did. Very good. said Kradz. Did 
>lice anythir-g else about the interro~a-
1? Well, y,a1s, there was this business 
>ut the ring. Perhaps the suspect had 
,en it. Kradz smiled. No. the kid hadn't 
en the ring. but he was gay. He had 
:hanged rings with another guy. Nobody 
:w about it. The kid didn't really expect 
)e asked about it. because Kradz had 
1e over all the questions with him. Still, 
3n the ring was menti,:>ned, he panicked. 
ly the third cay of the course. I had begun 
~ive some thought to what I might do 
, the PSE. I was particularly interested 
,e fact that the device works from a tape 
ording. Sound-recording technology is 
iost a century old (Edison invented the 
>nograph in 1877). and an enormous 
:>uni of history is stored on phonograph 
ords. sound traci<s. and ta;:e a:,d wire 
ordings. I thought how many press con­
mces, interviews and publi:: pronounce­
its are stored away in the film and tape 
hives of the world. and how many ques­
ts could be settled if we knew for certain 
tha, the speaker had told the truth. However. 
sinca interrogation with a PSE se£?mt'!d to 
requirt> such an elaborate arid $lructured 
situation. I wondered if it could be usecl 
the \':ay I had hoped, as a tool for historical 
resea•ch. 
During th~ lunch break I took Kr.idz aside 
and ask"::'d him. Could the PSE oe used out­
side interrogations, where the speaker was 
t':!llina wh~t m~y or m.:iy not have hap­
pen.;;d? Yes, he said, the PSE could be used 
for that. Where there was no stress. I could 
be confident that the speaker was telling 
the truth. However, when I did find stress. 
I had to ba very careful about reaching con­
clusions about its cause; it could result from 
something other than decep)ion. But if I 
I hoped that Jim Garrison would prove thJt 
hi::? had solved th'? m,·stery. He didn't. Tim9 
pass~cJ. public interest waned. and the 
details of the controversy dimmed in my 
mind, leaving on:y a dllll residu':l of doubt. 
I had despaired of ever learning the truth. 
Now I knew what to do with the PSE. 
It was all there: the statements made 
b9fore television cameras by eyewitnesses, 
policemen. medical examiners. members 
of the Warren Commission. Somewhere in 
a network-television vault were the sound 
tracks, with the tiny. inaudible variaiions in 
voice frequency that could settle once and 
for all the question. "Did Oswald, acting 
alone, shoot and kill John F. Kennedy?" 
My immediate problem was getting 
Voice prints by the . 
Psychological Stress Evaluator 
of former chief justice 
Earl Warren in May, 1972 
indicating hard stress on 
the words "no evidence." 
: .. i;.: ;:::·;:-';· ... 
.i..,;,.,.,c_;,,:'<o,c:'' 
,~ ktor COuNr£.~:N c.LUuf,' AN l:)c, u I 
found a stress pattem in the testimony of 
several witnesses to the same event, I would 
very probably have uncovered deception. 
En:ouraged, I reviewed the list of recent 
mysteries. Watergate was, of course. the 
first to come to mind. The ITT aifair was 
also of recent interest. The Kent State inci­
dent had never been fully cleared up. But 
one subject seemed to loom above all the 
rest-the assassination of John F. Kennedy. 
Like many others, I have found it difficult 
to believe the Warren Report. When Mark 
Lane's book came out. I read it carefully. 
I read much of the other criticism of the 
Warren Commission's findings. The more 
I read. the more I doubted the official ac­
count of what happened that day in Dallas. 
I waited for the real story to emerge. It didn't. 
access to the recordings. I was certain the 
television networks would have them. but 
I wasn't sure exactly what to ask for. There 
must be thousands of hours of sound 
recordings relating to the assassination. 
Where, among all this talk, was the critical 
testimony? , 
I started digging and soon discovered 
the existence of a group called the National 
Committee to Investigate Assassinations. 
located in Washington, D.C. I called the 
number listed in the telephone directory 
and was soon speaking t6 Bob Smith. the 
Committee's Research Director. I told Smith 
that I was a writer and wanted to do a piece 
on the John F. Kennedy assassination. I 
asked him for an interview. and he agreed. 
We met in the offices of Bernard Fenster-
