13-00000 
SECRET 
SUBJECT: Foreign Government Information 
~acl~~ 
~a-lso-to-the-cond~ct-o-f-us-eore-rgn-rel-at:ions tlia t-ElieUSG-i s seen 
•I\ 
I 
as abiding by its agreements with foreign services as well as its 
own laws on the release of information. 
I 
•I 
11. (S) Finally, the importance of maintaining good 
relations with the Australians cannot be overemphasized. As a 
result of our valuable relationship with our Australian liaison 
counterparts, the USG receives a large volume of finished 
intelligence. Due to our shrinking resources, much of this 
information would not be available to U.S. policy makers were it 
not provided by the Australians. Additionally, we work together 
with the Australians around the world on joint.collection 
activities that cover the full spectrum of USG intelligence 
priorities. Finally, there are several critical collection 
efforts vital to the USG where we do not have the entree to 
collect intelligence independently. In these cases, we rely 
entirely on the continued good will of the Australian services to· 
provide us with the assistance necessary to meet U.S. 
policymakers' needs. 
12. (S) In light of all the above, CIA submits the 
following two proposals for the Board's consideration. First, 
the Board could postpone these two documents from release for a 
short period (we propose 10 months) at which time CIA can 
reassess its relationship with the Australians. It is possible 
that the relationship with CIA and Australia could change so that: 
it would be possible to seek their consent for release in full. 
However, should we seek the consent of the Australians at a 
future date and the Australians object to the release of the 
documents, we would ask that the Board seriously consider any 
negative reaction from the Australians in its deliberations and 
abide by their desires. A second option would be for CIA to. 
coordinate with the JFK Staff a substitution or some sort of 
summary of the Australian documents for immediate release. This 
summary would hide the fact that the letter came from the 
Australian service, but would reveal what the subject of the 
letter was. This would avoid the problem of having to go the 1 
Australians to seek their consent, which we would have to do even; 
in the case of redactions. • 
13. (U) Should the Board reject these proposals, CIA is 
willing to work with the Board to reach another mutually 
agreeable solution. We strongly believe, however, that any 
1
• 
approach which suggests that the U.S. Government may ignore its I' 
obligations and commitments to foreign governments would 
seriously undermine the vigorous and healthy diplomatic as well 
\ 
as intelligence relationships that we currently enjoy. \. 
14. (S) With regard to the remaining four documents (104- • 
L 10012-1001a, 104-10012-10019, 104-10012-1ooa1, 104-10009-10222, I 
~~~re-C:r-A-documen-&s-and-wi-t-h-t-he-~edaet;-i0ns~pr0p0sed-by-the- __ l 
5 
SECRET 
1 
I_ 
