[107.F 
[ [12. 
G S~CTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS[AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] 
Requests of informant ~help defend others] e 
a. If a security informant is requested by the Communist Party, communists 
being prosecuted by the Government, or by other interested parties to 
assist in the preparation of the defense in subversive-type cases or 
receives assignment where such information is readily available, 
informant should tactfully'decline such assignments. 
b. Any such request received by informant should be reported immediately 
to the contacting Agent ·and made a matter of record.· 
c. If the informant cannot avoid becoming involved, he should be instructed 
not to report to the contacting Agent any information pertaining to 
defense plans or strategy. 
d.· Any such incident must be reported promptly to the Bureau. 
G. INFORMANTS' INFORMATION 
[ 1. General instructions[re oral and written information] 
~. Instructions regarding preparations submission, and handling of 
. inf,ormation received .from informants apply not only to s ecuri ~y 
informants but also to potential security informants, panel s.ources, 
security confidential sources, and security sources of information. 
b. Specific instructions and guidance must be.given to informants 
concerning preparation of statements containing their information. 
c. They should be submitted as quickly as· possible after a meeting 
or activity. 
d. Written statements should be submitted whenever possible, but if such 
[ cannot be done inf~rmation may be provided or~lly. [In espionage and 
[ foreign nationality matters written. statements are usually necessary 
[ only in those instances involving possible future prosecution. (In ; 
[ the majority of cases diplomats or officials who are not subject to 
[ prosecution are involved.)] . 
e. Carefully scrutinize each, bearing in.mind that if informant is called 
upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be 
introduced in court. 
f. All information furnished by informants orally or in writing must be \ 
promptly reviewed, recorded, indexed, evaluated, channelized, and all 1 
necessary action taken. Form FD-306 may be used in.lieu of a chan-
nelizing memorandum if desired. If so used> prepare copies of FD-306 
as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy of the 
informant's statement being channelized. Channelization should b~ 
noted on original FD-306 and on all copies under "Remarks~" 
g. Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing~ 'advise the triai 
attorney that informant not only furnished information concerning 
instant case but also provided other statements not pertinent to case 
at issue. The trial attorney ~ill thus be prepared in the.event 
informant ·testifies on direct examination or cross-examination that 
he furnished information in addition to his testimony. 
h. See subsection M for instructions regarding filing informant statements. 
[ 2. Recording[wri tten and oral informati·on] 
NW 
a. Written by informant • 
( 1) 11ay be in handwriting or hand printing o:f i·nformant or typed. 
(2) Original only should be submitted and informants should never 
retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously check 
informants to see that they do not keep any notes or copies. 
{3) Prepare on paper.devoid of any Bureau markings or identification. 
(4) Date when informant prepares statement should be placed a.t the 
top of it . 
. ( 5) All :information obtained by inform.ants regarding each meeting 
or each separate activity in which they engage should be sub­
mitted in one statement whether the information is of 
ev-identiary or inteJ.li gence value. 
Docld:32989529 Page 1804 10 
?..-12-60 
