13-00000 
SECRET 
d) Potential physical danger to CIA officers and assets; 
e) Potential threats to CIA' s agreements with other US government entities. 
7. Category by category, the specific kinds of damage most likely to result from 
disclosure of the five types of information outlined in section 2 above are: 
⇒A) • Foreign government forgeries. 
(The Mexican and Panamanian passports carried by David Morales.) 
a) (S) Damage to US diplomatic relations with Mexico and Panama would 
result from release ofinformation on Morales's passport documentation: In the past, 
CIA's production and use of various countries' passports, birth certificates, and other 
official docume_nts have been done both with and without specific· agreement from those 
countries. With respect to the documents in this package reflecting our use of Mexican 
passports, the latter was undoubtedly the case. Moreover, CIA still continues to provide 
its assets and officers with forged Mexican passports without the agreement of the 
Mexican government. 
• . The Mexican government has always been extremely sensitive to issues of national 
sovereignty and woµld almost certainly express official public resentment at CIA' s 
usurping of its unique authority by producing false passports and birth certificates of 
Mexican citizens. 
(S) There are concrete examples of past incidents involving disclosure which have 
resulted i~ strong censure and the threat of diplomatic action: In the aftermath of the 
Iranian takeover of the US Embassy in Tehran in 1978, among the papers the Iranians 
discovered were forged Belgian and West German identification documents including 
passports. Upon reading this in the Iranian media, Belgian intelligence officials summoned 
our people and threatened that if all such documents were not destroyed immediately and 
the practice ended, there would be exceptionally dire consequences in the spheres of both 
diplomatic relations and intelligence cooperation. 
• Besides the insult to its sovereignty, at least one additional strong factor in the Belgian 
government's acrimonious representation was the desire to avoid any association 
with CIA, however spurious,· of Belgian citizens living, working, or traveling 
abroad. 
(S) The Germans also registered their ire in strong terms, noting that in using 
German passports outside the Warsaw Pact theater we had exceeded our negotiated right 
to reproduce their documentation for use by our officers. During this demarche, similar 
threats were made to end the liaison relationship with their intelligence service. 
SECRET 
3 
