I 
I -
) 
107.? - 0. SECTION 107. .RITY TIHORMJ...NTS .Alm SOURCES 
P. SIGNING OF LOYA.LTY OA.THS, AFFIDAVITS, .A.ND STATEI1EliTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oath~ or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting Agent fully 
·advised of any situation wherein they might be ·required to sign such a 
form. 
3. Advi3e Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4. The i.,··reau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the c, . .formant 's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertiuent 
facts concerning the inf or::iant 's activity; however, such situations 
must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
5. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to be 
advisc~as promptly as possible, together mith an approp~iatc recom­
~endatlon for proposed action. 
6 •. In no instance should you permit an informant to sign w loyalty oath 
in the ?egative. • • 
Cl. DISCOWt'TNUJSD INFOH!1ANTS 
1. When the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card 
"canc~lled." Destroy the synbol card. Nev.er destroy the name ca.rd. 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by syr;ibol number iu the symbol 
~uraber index. I~ a discontinued informant or • discontinued potential 
security informant or confidential source _to,•· 71 a symbol number was 
once assigr.ed later is reactivated, remo-ve hi .. ,;;.me card from the 
sy-..nbol number index, rr.a.rk it reacti-vated with ;:.ppropriate date, note 
thereo~ type of inforrea-cion he will now be· furnisbing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential security informant or confidential source is discon­
tinued aud a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpba­
bet5cal index card. 
[. 4. Ad-rise the 13ureau(of the date)when a potentia·l informant or informant is 
~iscontinued and the reason therefor. 
:::. ··vise the Bureau as to whether or not ·the informant is willing to testify 
-·- open court or b.efore administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all cases of security of Goyernment employees type in which the informant 
has furnished info::cmation must be ascertained and the Bureau adYis ed in 
compliance with section 69F, volume III, of this manual. 
6. Review the informan·t 's file to determine if any copies or sumn,aries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the tcpart­
oent's interest in us.ing the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available as a witness are contained therein. In those casesin which it 
is evident th-0 Department has indicated a desire to consider the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau in ~ach such 
substantive case, except in those cases in ·:rhioh it is ob-viou.s the statute 
of limitations has run or the case has becu adjudicated. This ~xception 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. Wl1t:n all 
above action is compldted, adYise the B~reau. 
7. A statement shall also l>e made to the effect that the measures to con­
trol j_nforma.nts, set out in 8 below, have been consid(:rc'1 and recommenda­
tions shall be made when it appears that such are warranted. 
o. When the services of an informant nrc discontin&ed, maintain close 0on­
ta.ct with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for n.dvice 
and. counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Bureau's 
best :tn-tei·cs ts. When a11 in.formant is discontinued, Jetcrmine whet.lier 
he hns plans for writ::i.1:a a book, magazine or news paper :l..L't:i cle, or other-­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he sh~uld be lmpressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance ra~her 
tha.n mr.:.king other :irrantemcnts. If an informant in:,ists on engaging in 
• ' 
~- NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Pag~1355 24 
I,_ ., -:, ,:,,A 
) 
-i 
