( 
[ 
[ 
{6) 
, NW 88321 Docld:32989529 
SI!' ,,ou 87.. SECURITY IllVJ'?.;'.f'IGATI<:'t" 
• ~ 
'.!.'he abc•v-e is not all-incluai·1c. r'a.cts de-reloped in each. case 
87D 
will 1Ji·0duce inforrnrd:,ion which wil] be indicative of the necessity 
for coiductl.nt; i'urth(..r inve:;t.l.i:;a'lion along l:i.nos which will 
necessitate the use of various investigative techniques to develop 
the c~·:E, fully. The succc:;~i'ul investigation of ~.u individual 
will depend upon the resourccfulncs~ of the investigating Afents 
in devnlop:i.ng techniques which will further establish the :rnh-
versive activity o~ a subject. • 
Discretion must te used in those irrntanoes in w'hich oontac·t 
with person~ known to the subject is believed desira~le. 
Where such contact is conte~plated, the ~gent should assure 
himself of the character, loyalty, and reliability of the person 
to be contacted concerning the subject by reviewing the office 
ir1dices ~.nd in some instances conduc'Lintr prelir,linary illquiry, 
pcfliibly under pretext, with others t~ ascertain tho ctaracter, 
rel~ability, and loyalty of the person of whom inquiry concern­
i.11e the subject is intended. • 
In conducting security investigations the necessity of ob­
taining admisd.ble evidence must be conti'nu?.lly borne :i.n mind. 
Howevo:t·, sources furnishing information of a conf:i.denti,-1 nature 
are valuable and should be continued and enlarged for the pur­
pose of obtaining information which can be corroborated -by 
other sources which can be disclosed, thus rendering the inI6r­
mation admissible as evidence 0 
The danger of relying upon evidence from only one confidential 
informant or other source is obvious and every effort should be 
made to obtaiJJ- evidence from yarious types of sources and through 
various investigatiYe techniques. 
Information obta~ned from one source should be corroborated 
by contacts with confidenti~l informa~td, public and private 
sources, through physical and photo.f.: •• ;<hie surveillances, 
review of office files, and other so· .. ·-es. Adcq,,.tte 
c;oordinaticn of information received from confidential sources 
with active investigation should be maintained at all times 0 For 
example, when it is ascertained through one of these sources that 
an important meeting is to occur, the nature of the meeting should 
be· confirmed if possible by independent sources which can furnish 
evidence of an admissible character. The meeting should be covered 
by arrangement for attendance by confidential infoTmants to ob-
tain admissible evidence of the proceedings. The meetings should 
o'e placed under physical surveillance, licenses of autcr· --biles 
parked near the meeting place noted, and attendants idc-· ';ified. 
If possible and advisable, photographic surveillances should 
be established. Other types of information received from confi­
dential sources should receive similar attentinn in ordir that 
verification may be made and admiss,ible evid_ence developed. 
Preservation of evidence 
(a) IdentifyJ preserve, and maintain continuity of evidence ob­
tained with a view to its possible admission in Federal pro­
cee~ings. Identify specifically as _to source an~ aa~e • 
2118 
37 
10-23-6 1+ 
... 
I I I 
