INIERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMA.RY 
Regarding CIA Far East Division, Papich recalls 
proposals for developing cover in the U. S. for 
going overseas. Ober advised Papich of the develop­
ment of sources in the U. S. to cover overseas 
targets. Papich would write a memo on the situa­
tion and provide any relevant FBI information. He 
also discussed with Ober giving FBI assets to CIA 
if they travel overseas. Papich stresses that FBI 
sources are sent overseas. He encouraged working 
through CIA but never got very far. Papich gives 
the example of an FBI source who went to Italy and 
reported back through CIA. 
Ober asked FBI to use its sources to gather 
information on policy guidance, funding, and train­
ing of U. S. dissidents overseas. There was a large 
volume of communication covering names like 
Carmichael and leaders in domestic groups. 
FBI told CIA that if there was ever an investiga­
tion regarding a possible U. S. crime, CIA must 
recognize the evidentiary rules. If there were 
prosecutions (very few), it was never necessary to 
disclose CIA data. CIA sources were not in a 
position to testify. Papich does not recall ask­
ing CIA if information sent to FBI from CIA might 
have originated with electronic surveillance over­
seas. 
If Ober gave FBI information regarding domestic 
matters, FBI would ask for everything CIA knew 
about the sources. CIA memos would be very brief. 
Papich would insist on identification of the 
sources, since the FBI might want to use it. FBI 
did get access to sources, sometimes working through 
a CIA intermediary if source would not talk to FBI. 
Papich recalls di "notional 11 ( 
groups targeted a he program 
was not implemented e ore he left in 1970. It 
could have been explored in the FBI Intelligence 
Division but they would have come to Papich if 
CIA was needed. Papich discussed with Far East 
Division in CIA. 
Regarding the several million dollar fund transfer 
to FBI, Papich recalls this was an effort of the 
entire intelligence community, including the White 
Nff 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 22 
Page~O of ,?/ 
FILE: 
I 
