. ' 
• Donald Edward· Ganoung We have investigated Ganoung as a 
Departmental applicant for the position of consultant with the Law 
Enforcement Administration at Washington, Do C ., the position 
• • he now holds. He has· a degree iri • criminology and is a former 
Episcopalian priest who has worked among deviate elements. He 
has also been active in civil rights and antidraft demonstrations 
IRS [JFK Law 11 (a)J and twice was· arrested in thfs connection. Divorced by his wife · 
• 19 67 after he had an affair with another woman, Ganoung also 
The results of our investigation of him 
were furnished to the ttorney General on 2/ 11/ 69. 
William Henry Rentschler Rentschler, a candy company operator, 
has been extremely active in Illinoi.s Republican Party politics .. He 
carried on a notorious adulterous relationship which led to a divorce 
from a former wife. Our investigation of him revealed many 
prominent persons who would not.recommend Rentschler for a 
position with the Governmen,tin view of his moral weaknesses and 
reported lack of business acumen. • Our investigation not yet com­
plete but summary memo furnished the White House on 2/10/69. · 
Special Inquiry Investigations for the White House Security officers 
of various Government agencies have expressed shock at the lack 
of kno,vledge or the total disregard of the provision~ of the Federal 
Employee Security Program by the White House staff responsible 
for filling- top-level positions with· the new Administration. Mo st 
requests for investigation have been of per sons already firmly e stab­
lished in their new jobso When derogatory data is developed it is 
simply requested that the investigation be continuedo Only one person 
is known to have been discharged as a result of derogatory information 
developed during investigationo • Don Virdin, Internal Revenue Service . 
(IRS), called Bureau 2/13/69 and indicated Bureau had checked through 
ms only 8 of last 25 publicly announced Presidential appointees. 
Bureau has run chec~s of ms on all requests received frorp White 
House on Presidential appointees and it ·would appear· White House 
only asked for 8 of last 2 5 to' be. checked. • 
r 
Selective Service These ca:ses in recent years have broadened in 
scope with recurring schemes to obstruct the draft. We have 14,000 
pending investigations, up 5,000 from a year ago. Fiscal year 1968 
produced 809 convictions and the first seven months of this fiscal 
· period !1ave recorded 380 convictions, an increase over this period • 
a year ago. An interesting case is sun1111arized ,vhich involves an 
18-year-old Californian who ~e mother, . follo,vi.ng his arraignn1ent 
for failure to register for the draft, attempted to get a Restraining 
Order by contending that she was responsible for her son's actions . 
e 
. f 
. i 
> 
' .• 
{·. 
·L 
' •. 
.;: 
