107G 
[ 
Sr~C'.l.'I017 10"/. 
( 6) 
. (7) 
Afte:?:' i:r>.formr~nt au·!;hun·i;icates his si:atement, contacting Aten'.; 
should prep;;,r.e a cover nheet, form :F'D-306, which sho1.1.J.d be stapled 
• to it a rod tl:~ireaftc:r the statement sl":ol1.lc1 1-rn h:tndled a.s a 
written one in accordance with instruction;., se·!; out in 2, a, 
( 10), a.nd {J.1) . 
Oral info:r·ma•tion furnished by informant purely of le:~cl value 
should be incorpor::..ted in ~~n office memorandum by t·:he .ti.gent 
and should not be ini tialr,cl by the informant ox· exhi b:. tecl to 
him or treated as evldence. 
3. Trans;nission of :i.;::'orIT.?.tion 
a. Statements sho'.:ld be personally delivered to contacting Aic,nt by 
informants whenever possible. Careful consideration should be 
give~ to full security of all such personal contacts. 
b. 'l.'a,0)' sho1.1.l-i never be m~.ilcd ·to field o.ffice or resident agE-ncy, 
c. If they oa~not be obtained personally by contacting Agent, obtain 
confi1e~tial post office boxes for their recnipt, 
d. Conf.i.de,rtial posJ;; office boxes should be ob-tuined tmder fic-bitious 
names ar.d. not under names of persons who may be listed in post office 
directory. 
e. More than one informan·I; may send sta·tements to a specific post office 
box, but consideration should be given to obtai~ing post office boxes 
in different post office stations to preTent suspicion on part of 
post office employees. 
f, Envelope enclosing statement should have ret~rn address of another 
confidential post office box obtained ~nder a fictitious name in the 
sarno manner as d. 
g. St.;:. 1;emen·l;s should be collected .at post office boxes regularly, 
but time of pickup should be varied. Work ou:t system of rotation 
whereby sa:ne Agent or .Agents will not appear at same post off~ce,box 
for any extended period of t:i.me. 
h. When infor:nant :i:·eoeives :i.nformation of Tital and immedi?.te :interest 
to Bureau, he should furnish it as promptly as possible to contacting 
.Agent or office by most appropriate means of communication. Office 
should take any ndcessary ac·'t:ion vti thot1.t delay. 
4. Eandling of lead information 
5. 
a. All lead inforr.1?.tion obtained from informan·t must be run out to 
a logical conclusion. 
b. If thr.,re is only partial name of indi-vidual or meager des crip·l;i,, 
data, and if there is sufficient data available to do so, file ::: 
be opened and assig~ed to effect an identification and to take a. 
necessary action. 
• c. If there is insufficient information to warrant opening case, 
a tickler card should b~ prepared to follow with the informant and 
take other logical· steps in an effort to obta:i.n additional identifying 
data concerning the individual. Tickler cards shoul~ be restricts! 
to information which would warrant investigation if an identity is 
established, This will eliminate inconsequential items, but at ·the 
same time definite steps must be taken to run out affirmat:ive informa­
tion. If no identification is made after reasonable effort, prepare 
memorandurr. for i.nformant rs subfile. If an identifica.tion is made, 
a file should be opened and any necessary action taken in co11nection 
therewith. 
Handling documentary matertal furnished by tnformants 
a. .Pamphlets 2.nd similar documentary material fu.rni shed b.y informants 
should have placed thereon the informant's code name. 
b. Inform~nt should affix date he received the material. If informant 
cannot recall date of receipt, the date he furnished material should 
be affixed. 
c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, 
permanent symbol number of informant, file numbers, indexing symbols, 
etc., shouli be pl~ced o~ documentary material by Agents or clerical 
personnel. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1342 
12 
6-13-61 
• i 
I I 
. I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
I I I 
i 
