SECRET 
A trainee-who recently retu~ned to Peru after 
several months of training in Cuba, said that all 
his fellow trainees were asked to mark bridges and 
other similar demolition targets on detailed maps 
of Peru. They were also required to fill out: 
lengthy questionnaires on sabotage targets, possibil­
ities for subversion of police, methods for illegal 
-en~ry and travel, suitable drop zones for air sup­
ply, possible points of attack against police and 
military posts, and similar information necessary 
for directing subversion and insurrection. 
Numerous reports come to us indicating that in 
such countries as Colombia, Venezuela,· and Peru, 
where there are indigenous guerrilla forces either 
in action or in being in the hills, there are Cu­
bans among the bands acting as leaders, instructors 
or advisors for these forces. These reports are in­
variably second-hand, and we have not been able to 
confirm any of them. In some cases, _ it has turned 
out that a reference to "a Cuban" with the guerrillas 
referred to someone who has been trained in Cuba and 
was training others, rather than a Cuban national. 
However, we know positively that three Cuban nationals 
were involved in the strike violence at La Oroya, 
Peru, last December, which culminated in several 
million dollars worth of damage to the smelter of 
the American-owned Cerro de Pasco mining company. 
One of these Cubans has also been directing the armed 
invasions of big ranches in the Andean highlands by 
land-hungry Indians. Information of this nature con­
tributed to the decision of the Peruvian junta to 
crack down on Communists in January. In Brazil, the 
complaint of guerrillas in training camps was that 
they had been recruited by a promise of Cuban in­
structors, but found there were none. This came to 
light when the report of a Cuban intelligence agent, 
relaying their complaints to Havana, turned up in 
the wreckage of the Varig airliner which crashed in 
Peru in November. 
IV. Weapons 
In general, the Cubans appear to be following 
the textbook for guerrillas in regard to provision 
of arms. We have strong evidence, from numerous 
-7-
SECRET 
NW -~095-~ Docld.: 32424 709 Pag'e 13 
