107I - K SECTIO:N 10- SECURITY IN"PORW..UTS Ji..iif.D CONF~.fTIA.L SOURCES 
2. Communications - use of symbols 
a. .After Bureau is adYised of the permanent symbol; in subsequent _ ( 
communications true nam·e of' informant should not be se·t forth; use ' 
symbol number. 
b. In all communications after the initial letter, Bureau and field 
office file numbers for informant must be set forth.· 
c. In communicatipns between offices, the same procedure·is to be 
followed, 
d, Informants and sources entering another di.-ision • • 
(1) Active in.formants and sources entering another di.-ision on 
temporary basis for Bureau business or for personal reasons 
should be referred to in initial letter to interested 6ffice 
by true name and symbol number if it is necessary for :the other 
diYision to know the identity of the informant, Office reoei.-ing 
such letter should make appropriate index ca~ds and place same 
in "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" index, Subsequent 
letters between interested offices may then identify indi vid:ual . 
by symbol-number only. 
( 2) Individuals who leave the divis:i.on where they have been furnishing· 
information and do not plan to return should be immediately 
discontinued, their symbol number, if any, should be canceJ,led, 
and their true name should be used in all administrative 
correspondence. 
(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and remains 
active, his identity must still be protected. 
[ e, [Deleted) • 
[ f. In communications concerning a potential security informant[when 
[ a symbol number is not assigned, )the name of the potential security 
informant and abbreviation "PSI" shall be used; e.g., ·"John Doe, 
PSI. II 
[ g. [Deleted) 
( h. [Deleted] 
[ i. [Deleted) 
j, In espionage and foreign nationality matters the caption of the 
communication should show in addition a character and the countr.y 
designation (:i..e., IS - R for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.). 
Thts facilitates routing the mail at the Bureau. 
J. INDEXING 
1. 
2. 
True names and aliases of all inforrr. -ts, as well a? the cover name 
assigned to them for informants I us: . !l submitting· their statements, 
but not their permanent Bureau symbo:'.. numbers, shall be indexed in 
the general office indices in the samt' man_ner- as any ot3:ter name. 
These index cards should show the file number 6f the informabt and 
such terms as "Informant" or "Potential Security Informant" shall not 
appear. 
K .. INDICES 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol number index 
a. Alphabetical name index 
( 1) In all offices. all act.i ve potential security and s~curi ty 
informant cards are to be kept by the SAC, ASAC, or security 
supervisor consistent with maximum security and best admin­
istrative practice. This is to be known as the alphabetic!l 
name index. , 
(2) File these cards in alphabetical order and also include cards 
for security confidential sources, These cards sho_uld show 
whether the individual is a potential informBnt, ~n informant~ 
or a confidential source furnishing information on security 
matters. 
' NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1578 
_14 
7-14-64 
