87D 
(6} 
SE CURI '1:Y. HTVI:STI GN!'. IOH. 
,(b) Data. to ap,rHHl.r on ::iepa:t·n.te a:ttachcd c::i,rcl 
I~ The f<>:1.lo·,"linf: da-:;a mus i; be placed on a s cparatc 
card t,o be u:t-tt~c!ir:d to r<n-or::: c side of the n ccu:ci ty 
index ~ard being filed in the geographical, speoial, 
or unav2.ilable Gec·l;ionr:o Da.t,, will not be attached to 
the security index card filed in the alphabetical 
section., Thes c cards contain p:rint~ed. cap·l;ions to 
assist in recordin& tho descriptive information •. 
Captions ara not f~ll•-inclusiv.ro and should .be augmented 
by other da:ta. :rcqu-i.red., 
(A) Complete des cript:i.011 
(B) Notation ~]'at security index flash notice hns bee·n 
submittecl for posting in I~lcnti:fic,,tion Divi;;iou 
{C) Pho·to graph~ with date taken placed below 
( D) D2ng~:rous char2,cteris tics of subject, including 
notation i:f sur;ject possesses firearms 
(E) Other data which .-.ill assist in effecting appre­
he:n:s,ion of subject~ such as directions to resi(lence 
or employment, wb.cre subject not situated in usual 
locations 3 listing of nul!tber of minor children 
2.nd aged dependentil 4 
II. Ii' descriptive cl.a.ta have not been obtained, case must 
be kep·:; pending and investigation conducted to clevclop 
this information~ Upon posting 0£ security index flash 
notices in security index cases, the field will be 
furnished the FBI number and fingerprint cla.ssi:f5.cation 
which should be affixed to_ reverse side o:f the s ccnri ty 
index cards filed in gcographicalll special and unavail-
able sections. . , 
III. Form FD-,186 is used f,or purpose of compiling information 
to be posted on the separate card attached to back of 
the seaurity index card filed in tho geographical section 
of index., Fore1 roay be filled in by. the Agent handling 
the case in legible handv;riting and forn2..rcled to clerical 
employee designated to post this information on the 
attachment to the geographical, special or un2.vailabl·e 
sections:~ After the securd.ty index card has been_ pre­
pared at Bureau and sent to field and information :;,.pp ea.r­
ing on FD~l86 has been posted on the card to be attached, 
it shall be filecl in the investigative case file,. 
FD-186 may also be used to record infoi-mati.on th2.t a 
security index subj-,ct has b~en physically obs ervcd,, 
Des cri:pti ve data <l••·. ,·loped during obs e:cva:tion of the 
subject should be : .. · l..ed on Ji'D-186 • for posting., 
.Arrangement of· the security j ndex 
{a) At Bureau • 
The entire sccnrity index is maintained at the Bureau 
through the utilization of IBtr tabul2.ting cards •. ·The 
white 5- by 8-inch security index cards are.printed by this 
machine and transmitted to the field. Through the use 
of this deviccll the secur~iy index can be br0ken down 
into the vo.:i:-ious categories o:f inform<'.tion appearing on 
the security inclex cards when such breakdowns become necess2.ry 
for administrative purposes at -the Bureau., This procedure 
makes it possible to maird:ain the content of the security 
index in the :field and at the Bureau in an identical con­
dition at all timeso 
An alphabetical bre1kdown of the true names and- all alias es 
of securitv index subjects is also maintained at the Bur~au· 
for adniini;trative purposes. 
50 
56 11 8-55 
