( 
\ 
d. 
,,· .\ 
SECURITY IUV.:ilSTIG.A.TIO~- 87E 
{c) When all logical leads have been exhausted in case of 
m.i.ssing important functionary, consider requesting Bureau 
authority to circularize all field offices with subject's 
photograph and background information. . 
Individuals traveling abroad (Also see section 105G, volum3 IV, of 
this manual.} 
. Set forth belo1't are steps to be taken when information is received 
that subject in one of following categories intends tci travel abroid 
or has already departed this country for foreign travel: subject of 
current security investigation, subject in priorities I and II 
of security index, past security subjects who may be in 
underground capacity, or subject concerning whom there is 
current information indicating need for fore.ign coverage. 
{1) Immediately advise Bureau by LRM available details concerning 
.travel, including places and dates of departure and intended 
return, de stina.tion and itinerary, purpose of trip, name· un1er. 
which passport was issued, number of passport, and issuing 
office, if known. Include full description of subj~ct and all• 
aliases (in case of Chinese and Korean subjects, include Chinese 
telegraphic code or Korean telegraphic code numbers). Also 
include concise resume of available subversive data regarding 
subject. Do not delay advising Bureau of actual or intended 
travel while developing details of tra:vel as time is of essence. 
(2) Set out lead for WFO to check records. o:l;' Passport Office, Depart­
ment of State; but do not limit efforts to de.velop pertinent 
information to such check. 
(3) Information concerning subject's proposed travel abroad, including 
information concerning subversive activities, is furnished 
Department of State, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and 
legal attaches. If travel is in area covered by legal attache, 
forward sufficient copies of LRM to enable dissemination of 
three copies to each legal attache involved. For each of these 
legal attaches, forward one photograph of subj'ect, if available. 
If stops are to be placed with security services abroad, cover 
letter should so indicate. Set forth requests for investig~tion 
abroad on separate numbered page, captioned "Leads," at end of LID'1. 
Request should not refer to legal attache or request investigation 
by particular agency abroad. 
(4) Subsequent report in individual case should contain details 
rega.rding subject's travel. In nonsecurity index cases where 
.LRMs are submitted, cow.munication transmitting data .regarding 
travel should indicate whether invest·igati on is being initiated and, 
if not, why. 
(5.) Set forth below are steps to be taken when information is received 
that one of following is forming tour group for foreign travel: 
organization of investigative interest to Bu~eau or subject in one 
of categories des~ribed in first p~ragraph under item d above. 
(a) Advise appropriate offices, under caption of tour group or 
... 
organization, identities of individuals participating in 
tour, and furnish Bureau LHMs for State Department, CIA, 
and appropriate legal attaches. Incluqe all readily available• 
information pertaining to tour, such as itinerary,• pertinent 
dates, names and addresses of participants, and thumbn~il 
sketch of organization or individual sponsoring t.our. 
, (b) Offices should immediately identify participants and submit 
LHMs on those in one of categories described in first para­
graph under item d above. Refer to LHM previously prepared 
under caption of tour group or organization. _Submit letter 
to Bureau under capti·on of tour group or organization listing 
individuals within territory participating in tour on whom 
there is no subversive information. 
25 
· I 
I 
l 
i -' l 
I l 
I 
I ! 
l i 
i 
! ' 
i i 
I • l 
i 
