13-00000 
records was its belief that the FBI's evidence 
did not enumerate-specific harms that would 
result from disclosure. 
A. The FBI's May 1996 Appeals to the 
President. On May 10 and 28, 1996, the FBI 
appealed to the President to overturn the 
Board's vote on 17 records relating to the 
FBI's surveillance of officials and establish­
ments of four Communist countries-the 
Soviet Union, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and 
Poland-during the 1960s. The FBI's overar­
ching arguments were that disclosure of the 
information would reveal sensitive sources 
and methods that would compromise the 
national security of the United States, and 
that disclosure of the targets of the surveil­
lance-the four Communist countries­
would harm the foreign relations of the 
United States. 
The FBI sought to postpone five types of 
source and method capabilities: tracing of 
funds, physical surveillance (lookout logs), 
mail cover, electronic surveillance, and type­
writer and fingerprint identification. The 
Review Board's response briefs to the Presi­
dent dealt with each source or method in 
turn. Specific details regarding the appeal of 
each issue are discussed be_low. 
In response to the FBI' s overarching argu­
ment that disclosure of the information 
would reveal sensitive sources and methods 
and compromise the national security, the 
Review Board responded that if the national 
security would be harmed by release of this 
information, the harm would have already 
occurred, since the FBI had already released 
both the identities of the target countries and 
the sources and methods that the FBI used in 
its operations. 
In response to the FBI's arguments that dis­
closure of the targets of the surveillance 
would harm the foreign relations of the United 
States, the Review Board responded in three 
parts. First, the information that the FBI 
sought to protect is widely available in the 
public domain, from both official govern­
ment sources and secondary sources, so if 
foreign relations are harmed by disclosure of 
the information, then the harm has already 
occurred. Second, the FBI simply did not 
prove its argument that it may have violated 
irtternational law or "diplomatic standards" 
by employing the sources or methods at issue 
since the FBI did not cite the laws or treaties 
to which it referred and the Review Board 
could not locate any laws or treaties that 
were in effect at the time that the records 
were created. Third, despite the FBI's asser­
tion to the contrary, the Review Board had 
evidence that other governments do acknowl­
edge that, in past years, they conducted for­
eign counterintelligence operations against 
other countries. 
The Review Board believed that the FBI had 
not provided evidence of a "significant, 
demonstrable harm" to current foreign rela­
tions or intelligence work. Thus, the Board 
asked the President to deny the FBI' s requests 
for postponement. The White House did not 
expressly rule on the appeals. Instead, after 
several meetings involving representatives 
from the Review Board, the FBI, ai;id the White 
House, the White House directed the FBI to 
provide the Review Board with specific evi­
dence in support of its postponements. The 
White House requested the Review Board to 
reconsider the Bureau's specific evidence. The 
FBI, in turn, withdrew the first two of its 
pending appeals, including some records in 
which the Review Board voted to release 
information obtained from a technical source. 
B. Post-appeal decisionmaking. After fur­
ther negotiations, the Review Board and the 
FBI agreed to release most information 
regarding its .. foreign counterintelligence 
activities against Communist Bloc countries 
as "consent releases." In those few cases 
where the Bureau believed that foreign coun­
terintelligence activity against Communist 
Bloc countries still required -protection, the 
Bureau submi~ed for the Board's determina­
tion postponement-specific evidence. 
To the extent that the information in the FBI's 
proposed redaction did not meaningfully 
contribute to the understanding of the assas­
sination, the Review Board allowed the FBI 
to postpone direct discussions of • foreign 
counterintelligence activities against non­
Communist Bloc countries. With regard to 
the FBI's "segregated collections," the 
Review Board stated in its segreated collec­
tion guidelines, 
It is presumed that the FBI will, at l~t 
partially, carry over its post-appeal stan-
i 
I 
:\ 
