NW 
107T-U 
4. 
SECTION 107. ·C~ITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDE.AL SOURCES. 
b. Pamphlets, brochures; etc., prepared by private company for dis.tril:iu-
tion or sale to public. (This does not i:nclude highly technical 
pamphlet·s, even if unclassified., which are prepa:ced for limited use 
and not intended for release to public.) 
Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be retained by office of origin of any documents or 
material related to national defense which is passed. 
b. Such material should be appropriately identified by double agent. 
Bureau JJ:gents should not place identifying data on such material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in connection with its passage. 
(. 
c. Similar action should be taken regarding material which is passed which 
is considered evidentiary although not clearly related to national.defense. 
5. 
d. It is not necessary to retain -:iopies of buildup material ob-c,riously not 
eviden·tiary in nature where copies can be obtained a·l; later date from • 
Government agency or private concern having custody. 
Rand ling money and property received by do·uble agents 
a. Double agents must turn over to Bureau any money or property received 
from their principals in connection with double agent intelligence· 
operation. This should be made clear to double agent at inception 
of operation (consider obtaining signed statement to this effect). 
Exceptions must be specifically approved by Bureau. Entirely separate 
arrangements must be made for payments to double agents for services 
rendered to Bureau. 
b. Any money or property received by double agent from his principal 
represents possible evidence and double agent should execute state­
ment describing money received by type of currency, denomination., 
series of issue, and serial number and appropriately describing any 
other property received. Statement should be signed by double agentts 
code name. 
c. Money 9r -property received from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, l1a.nual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
d. Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from double agents 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refreshing. 
recollection in event testimony is later necessary. 
U. UTILIZATION OF INFORMANTS AND SOURCES AT INSTITUTIONS OF LEARNING 
1. Use of students 
a. Students under age of 18 years are not to be developed as security 
informants, potential security informants, or other types of security 
sources in other than highly unusual circumstances. Under such 
circumstances, furnish complete justification to Bureau. 
b. Upon ini tiaJ. • contact with prospecti vf:j student informant or ·~ ource, 
individual should be tactfully requested to execute a brief signed writ­
ten·statement for field file setting forth that this individual has 
voluntarily come forward ~o furnish information to FBI because of 
his concern ove·r individuals or groups that may be inimical to 
interests of U. S. Government and that he understands FBI has no 
interest in legitimate institution or campus activities. 
2. Quarterly letters 
a. On January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1, submit quarterly 
letters on each student and teacher authorized by Bureau for contact 
as security informant, potential security informant~ or other • 
sources (including panel sources). Include following: 
(1) Specific productivity 
(2) Specific information furnished not otherwise available from 
public source material or other office sources off campus 
(3) Frequency of contact . 
[ b. Quarterly letters on all[extremist]ana security informants or sources 
should be jointly transmitted to Bureau by cover letter captioned 
"Utilization of Informants and Sources at Insti·tutions of Learning." 
Include following in cover letter: ' 
{1) Number of informants., potential informa.nts, and other s our·ces 
active and under development at each ed1.1ca·tional institution 
affected 
(2) .An overall a,na.lysis of coverage afforcled by campus informant·s 
and sources 
24 
9-13-71 
( 
