a1n 
[ 
[ 
.-r 
• " 
SECtfnITY nrvEST!GATI .. 
II.· Wnenever reports relating to security index subjects 
contain d::d;a affecting material :i.ncluded on suhject' s 
existing security index c~rd, the COTer pages 
accomuar..ying t·he report shall include as the last page 
form FD-305, appropriately checked, vlldch form oontains 
items pertaining to the following: • . 
(A} That subject is included in the security index 
(B} That data appearing on security index card is 
current or requires change 
(c) rhat FD-122 has been submitted to Bure2.u. where 
security index card changes are necessary 
(Di That a suitable photograph is or is not av~ilable 
~E That consideration has been given to the use df \ . 
( F) 
(G) 
(R) 
T symboln 
That subj e·ct is employed in a key facility a:nd that 
adenoies interested in that facility are specified 
R;ason for classiiying report 
Dates subject i,as previously interviewed ::i.nd 
reason. for not reinter-vievring subject . 
(I) That subject no longer meets &equrity index 
criteria a~d a letter has been directed to the 
Bureau. recommending cancellation of the security 
index card 
(J) That subject's case has been re-evaluated and re~sons 
are set forth as to vrhy subje.ct•s activities continue 
to i'all v,ithin security index criteria 
(K) That subject's security index ca~d is or is not 
tabbed detcom and that subject's activities do or do 
not warrant dotoom tabbing 
[III 0 Form FD-305a containing items pertinent. ·to reserve 
• index subjects will be similarly utilized in connection 
. with the submission of reports in reserve index cases.] 
{b) Docunienta:l;ion of reports 
I. Deleted 
~I. If information necessary fo3: ,complete documentation 
is not available in subject's case file, necessary 
review of other office files should be made, ·If. 
not obtainable, this fact reust be indicated in the 
co~rer page( s) accompunying report to the Jh\reau. • 
III. Extensive investigation should not be conducted to 
fu:--ther identify and locate outside individuals who 
ha•Ye in the past fu,rnished background i11format:i.on 
or to obtain documentary evidence of background. 
information. For example, if previous investigation 
revealed that subject, according to reliable records, 
sue~ as birth records, school records, or records of 
the Immigration and 1faturc.lization Service, was born 
at a oerl;ain place on a certain date, such inform~tion 
will be sufficient for inclusion in.report. Further 
verification will not be necessary. 
IVc During the preparation of summary reports it is often 
found that information being incorporated into a. re-
port was originally obtained by another office and all 
·of the necessary infor:r.ia.tion :for complete dccumento.t-J.on 
vdll not be in the poirnnss-ion of the office preparing 
the report. In such ~n instance, if the office pre­
paring the report is in possession of Photoal;ats of 
documents obtained by t}1e oth<!r offices and the ideuti ty 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 825 
78 
10.:..lJ-60 .... -... 
C ~ # ~ 
~.-,, .. ~ ....,, 
