13-00000 
Vietnam likewise had hypocritical aspects. At this point 
Mr. McNamara demurred and said North Vietnam was an 
entirely different matter but he gave no reasons therefor 
and this point was not developed further. General Taylor 
noted that in connection with sabotage operations they kept 
Castro constantly on the alert and kept his forces heavily 
occupied running hither and yon. The President noted that 
this was probably true but so little gain in it and generally 
seemed disaffected with sabotage efforts. Rusk pointed out 
that there was some value in maintaining some pres sure of 
this type since to completely desist would eventually lead 
Castro to believe that he was immune from retaliation. The 
President then directed that he wanted a complete review 
of our Cuban policy and some new, imaginative thinking 
developed. I stated that this was presently heavily in train 
in all appropriate agencies of the Government, and Rusk and 
McNamara nodded their agreement. The President said he 
would want to meet as soon as people had drawn up their 
proposals. In connection with Cuba the President noted that 
he continued to desire the most drastic pressures on our 
Allies .to insist upon their cooperation and assistance and 
compliance in our economic denial program against Cuba. 
He said that Segni and Erhard had both assured him we could 
count on the full cooperation of Italy and West Germany to 
cease any further Cuban trade. He said he wanted similar 
discussions prepared for him whenever he met these leaders 
and for our leaders to_ take the same line in any discussions 
they might have. 
d. There was minor discussion as regards the situation 
in iti.J::I. Vietnam with no one indicating any great enthusiasm 
or any great surge of hopefulness as to the present situation. 
The President stated he was most unhappy to be making a 
speech indicating that things were improving and then to have 
a USIA spokesman and an Embassy spokesman state in Saigon 
that things were falling apart. He said somebody was getting 
poor advice as well as poor information and he was inclined 
to think it was he. He said that he was new in the job and • 
that he had in the past several months based his actions on 
