f 
i 
'· i 
61 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
t [ 
PART II 
-SECTIOM 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not nro­
posing individuals w~10 because of business connections or personal 
activities or close association with other p_ersons will be invoJ.vea: in 
unfavorable publicity or become the subject of adverse investigative 
activity, or w:ho will capitalize on their friendly association with_ 
the SAC. • 
4. Except where a suitable file is already in existence, a dead file in 
. classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
5. A three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained in an SAC 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the SAC. Each card is to 
6. 
contain: 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses apd telephone numbers 
c .. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any comments which would be helpful in handling the individual 
e. Date of first contact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
( Show in the lower left corner on the front of the card.) 
f. Dates of contacts by the SAC (to be entered on the reverse side of 
the card in longhand). Contacts more fre4uent than 4uarterly should 
not be listed. 
g. Any necessary descriptive data 
Each contact is to be indexed in the general indices. The card is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparation, and the notation, 
"See SAC. 11 
7o [The frequency of personal contact with SAC contacts is left to the 
8. 
9. 
lOo 
discretion of the SAC; contacts should be evaluated periodically to 
determine their effectiveness and the desirability ·of their c.ontinuanceo] 
Advise Bureau immediately when a contact is discontinu~d UACB. If-the ' 
contact is transferred or moves to another city located within another 
field division, a copy of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
should be designated for th~t field division. Also advise field division 
of background information re contact. 
Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of SAC contacts. 
[Each office must submit a complete alphabetical roster of SAC contacts 
to reach the Bureau·by the first week of November each yearo If there 
are any changes in address, employment, or other pertinent data, such 
information should be set fortho If there is no change in status, so 
stateo] , 
ll. From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more "FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indication that such. 
material is noi welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay. 
12. Immediately upon assuming the duties of SAC, sµch SAC should visit all 
persons listed as SAC contacts and in addition leading officials Jocated 
in the field division. 
8 
6-27-73 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1070 
J 
I 
\ 
