2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 
,~.. :~ ............ •··--· ... ·..,.~~---~--- .......... ·.....-..... --•• -•-· ..... -· ........ ;._ 
' 
. \ 
o(k -,g,3s~s 
·s-31.11 
Executive Registry 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence2QQQ 
VIA 
FROM 
SUBJECT 
: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence 
: S. D. Breckinridge . 
Principal Coordinator. HSCA 
Office of Legi~lative Counsel 
: House Select Committee ori Assassinations 
• Request for Access to the "Hart Report" 
1. Action Requested: • That you approve the recommendation at • 
paragraph 14 for limited a_ccess of selected House Select Committee 
on Assassinations (HSCA) staff members to a classified. sanitized . 
version of the Hart Report. • 
2 •. Background: As you know. the HSCA Staff Director. Mr. Blakey. 
has requested you in a letter dated 9 May 1978 (Tab A). ·to provide, access 
to a report prepared by John Hart in 1977 on the subject of the Agertcy' s 
handling of the Nosenko case. This request is part of an inquiry into 
hypotheses arising from Epstein's book Legend. in which the.view is 
presented that Nosenko was a dispatched agent with the mission of 
concealing KGB ties with Lee Harvey Oswald. Central to HSCA interest. 
is the question of Nosenko' s bona fides. Additional to that issue. interest 
has developed iri the manner in which Nosenko was treated .during the period 
that his bona fides were suspect. These two issues are treated separately 
below. • 
I 
3. The Hart report is directed at the handling of the Nosenko case. 
addressing the actions and conduct of various officers in the Agency. 'These 
matters cannot be treated without also considering the question of Nosenko's 
bona fides. so there also is considerable review of the methodology employed 
• and the analyses of those handling the matter. Mr. Blakey states in his 
letter that he has been informed that the report contains no information on 
the issues of bona fides~ being concerned instead only with personnel and 
internal procedures. This understanding on his part is incorrect. and 
his letter suggests that he himself has reservations about it. 
-1/-tiS'--'~3 
1...§i,WUH jh ¥it 
