.a 
'IDP SEO~'.i.' - 11-
Mr. Osb:Jrn also thought that continuation of the program was too risky in the 
light of public and Congressional attitude ta,\ard the CIA. He thinks tb...:.--:t t.he 
Program originatc::d 1dhile Allen Dulles was CCI and that it was undertaken with 
the kno,•;ledge and consent of the Postmaster General. Ha..;ever, this is hearsay, 
according to tJ'i.r. Osl:om. 
Mr. Osb:Jrn is also acquJi.nted wit-h the fact that from 1969 to 1971 the project 
of mail surveillance occurred from time to ti.rrP in San Francisco. The Office 
of Security .ade the arrangerrents with the Post Office Departrre..--it for this 
orogram, but it was carried out by the Far East Division and the Technical 
Se:rvic:es of the Directorate of Goe.rations. The Technicrll Services Division 
at that tirre was headed by Rod M. Kenner, who is now retired and living in 
Florida. 
The arrarige,1l2I1ts with the Pc.:t Office Departrrent were made bv Jack Turton of 
the Office of Security. Mr. Osborn has 0nly the vaguest knotlledge of the pur­
P'.)se of this project and could offer no further light than that it involve::1 
sorre checking on the sta.rrping and p:Jstma.rking of rrail from the Peoples Republic 
of China. The project was orally okayed by Mr. Helrrs. Mr. Osborn has no kno.vl­
edge 0£ any otl-.2r mail und:.::ccover projects in N~ Orleans or elsewhere. 
Cover 0}?2rations Using Local Police Cove_£ 
'1r. Osb:Jrn stated that arrangements were made several ye .cs ago wi 
of th2 Fairfax Cou.'1ty, Virginia, Police Depart:TP....nt for the .i.ssuance of badges ui-: 
other p:)lice i dei.1tification for U5e by CIA security personnel. It is t-1.':. 05'!:orn' s 
rerollection that this involved about 15 sets of identification. 
used bv the CIA. They were all 
This arrangerrent was inspired by difficulties whia.~ had been enrountered b 
security personnel in conducting a physical s1..1....--veillance of It 
see,11..s that ived in a reside.,tial o:xrrm.i.'1ity and hi 
a cul-d2-sa. e it extre:rrely difficult to cruise by his hare or station a 
security car anywhere near his hare without attracting t.11e attention of other 
residents in the neighborhood. • Securi son,."'lel who may have been sitting in a 
car within several blocks of the sidence i,.,ould have attracted the curio-
si ty of the residents and the opera d l::e threatened if such re~idents 
approached the car and asked what the occupants were doing the.r:e and if they were 
qivc...--1 stra.ight-fon..rard answers. According to t:.r. Ostorn, it was highlv desirable 
tl1<1.t th~ security perso.!1.1121 be able to resp:J.nd to such inquiries by saying that 
they were oolice performing official duties. t-bst citizens, he savs, ~uld accept 
tJ1at as sufficient, \vhereclS their curiosity wuuld be even further aroused if the 
security personnel identified themselves as being with the CIA. 
•. Osl:x:>m stat.es that he had issued strict orders that the use of id2ntificc1tion 
loc.:il POlice officers was to be limited strictly to situations involving actual 
vcr for surveillance purposes. 
'IOP SECRET 
NW -~095-~ Docld: 32203846 Page 17 
" 
;.. 
