suggested I see him. Copp offered to take taped material 
from me. My only other contact was a ,phone talk with him 
in March 1965. 
"While in Tai~van I was told by Col. Cai thness 
of the U.S.M.A.A.G. office that Copp had directly 
attributed information to another ~~AG officer who 
had briefed hira. When the story was printed (by North 
American Newspaper Alliance?), the officer was in trouble. 
Caithness indicated that he thought it Has an honest 
breakdown in communication between the officer and Copp 
and that it was not deliberate. During my r.rarch phone 
conversation with Copp I told him about Caithness' 
discl6sure to me (he had agreed that I tell Copp about 
the situation). Copp seemed quite surprised. 
"On March 16 I had dinner with John LeHis in New 
York. Lewis is handling radio programs for ASC (out of 
the Washington office). He also produces shows for NBC 
radio (including a farm program). I've also had several 
phone co11versations with Lewis in Washington. 
~n 29 Dcc~~ber lY65, ~iJey c9lje~ ~nrse Aller1, ~Hve 
information concerning a forthcoming Esquire article on 
espionage; and brought up the idea of moving to Washington. 
Apparer•.tly Allen arranged to have Wiley call Cecil Tighe, 
SRS, the following Monday and for Tighe to advise lifiley 
to come to Washington in the near future to discuss the 
matter with Tighe and Gaynor. Apparently, Allen was 
removing himself from contact with Wiley at about this 
time. 
Apparently on 14 January 1966 Gaynor and Tighe mei 
with Wiley discussing his possible move to Washington, 
his lecture tour and use of vouchers for travel expenses. 
A notation dated only 1966 states to the effect that 
Wiley's company, World News Analysis, is known on the 
"Hill" because of the relationship betHeen Filipello 
(sic) and Congressman Daddario. "Numerous persons knoH 
Wiley is CIA, other than perhaps a half-dozen of his 6wn 
friends. These include Eugene Lyons, Jay Kennedy, Elsa 
Bernaut, Hede Massing, etc. (Note: Mccord is not aHare 
of the first two names above, and this possibly would 
have some bearing on any assignment McCord may have been 
considering.)" 
SEP ?.O 1975 
CIA 
- 55 -
NW .~095-~ Docld: 32203889 Page 43 
