:-l" NARCOTICS 
• as it referred to ::i.s 
'ias reported that it 
. ·,l as members of the 
1 ngano were two of 
of families, both of 
:1ders of families i.n 
:10 hends of the New 
:td jurisdiction over 
40 members of the 
,·,1 th::i.t Traffic:mte's 
·" being divided with 
·dial source confirms 
1 onio Diecidne made 
a house for Vincent 
\'Pnr to spend 2 or 3 • 
'important members 
•at Traffic::mte never 
, the national bo::mH 
: members shared in 
; 
i;ercentage wasi 
i11f111ence of cnch of 
coincidence that in 
!,·:~st the early H>GO's 
Trnfficante, Jr., tl!o 
,l'n Albert Anastas1n. 
,·pared summaries of 
! h a commentary of 
information may bo 
police units to whom 
: iiese summaries and 
,iwh t; and exhibit 4. 
1:t;e referred may Lo 
1ese are srimmations, 
iiat are on the chart 
• business, their crim• 
<o.48. 
J 
ORGANIZED CRil\IE AND ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS 535 
(The documents referrc<l to marked "Exhibit No. 48~' for reference, 
and may be found in the lilrs of the suucoH1mittee.) 
The CIIAin;\L\X. You make reference to another exhibit.. "\Vhat is it? 
l\lr. O'DONNELL. Will you explain the other e~hibit? Go into a 
little detail ns to the various mnnlers that yon have on your exhiGit 
+, which ,\·ill be a different exhibit in onr hearin~-rs. 
The CIIAIRi\CAN, Let the Clrnir get this straight first. 
q'he summary that he rcfe1Tec.l to has lwen made exhibit 48. 
Thn.t is whnt vou referred to as "our exhiuit 3a"? 
Mr. Bnow:-.. Yes, sir. . 
The CnAIIUUN. Then you say "through t; and exhibit 4." 1Vhat is exhibit 4, yonr exhibit 4? 
1\fr. BnowN. Exhibit 4 is a brief summation on each of the subjects. 
The CIIArn.:1IAN, 1Vhat is vonr exhibit 3? 
Mr. BnowN. They arc a1~rest records of each of the individuals. The C1urn.:1uN. Very ,ye]!. 
Exhibit 48 is the arrest records. 
. l\fr. Bnowx. Yes, sir. 
The CnArn~IAN, Your exhibit 4: is a brief summary of each person on the chart? 
l\Ir. BrmwN. Yes, sir. 
The CHAin:'\L\N. It is of his records and activities? 
l\Ir. Bnowx. Yes, sir. 
The Cn,,rn'.'lux. It rnny be recPind ns exhibit No. 4!) for reference. 
(The rloc111nent rderrcd to lll:u:ked "Exhihit. No. ·1-0" for reference, 
:111rl may be found in lhe l\les of the Sllbcommit.tee.) 
The CuArnHAN. Now the record is straight. 
You may proceed. 
Mr. BnowN. Our department has always found it a, most. <liffic11lt 
task to oLtain evid('nce sufficient for sncccssfol prosecution of l\IaJia 
melllhers, because the witnesses who might offer such evidence have al­
ways been reluctant to do so. The parn111ou11t reason, of conrse, is 
their fear of Mafia reprisals, since it is common knowledge in Tampa 
that the i'\fofia cloes not hesitate to use rnmde1· for such reprisnls nnd 
the relative infrequency with which such professional murders are successfully prosecuted. 
lVe lrnve categorized certain homicides in the Tampa nrca, from 
ID28 to the present, as "gangland slnyings." An examination of the 
circumstancPs of some of thrse mnrders emphasizes how the i'\fofia 
nses murder to <liscipline its memliership, to rcYcnge itself against vio• 
-lators of its code and. to otherwise eliminate opposition to its criminal 
activities and goals. Of the 23 homicides on the list, only 1 lrns been 
so1Yed. A ratio of less thnn 5 percent of solution-and that par­
ticular murder ,ms cleared up because it apparently resulted from an 
argument, although it is possible that the slayer delibemtcly pro\·oked 
the argument. It was not, therefore, a typical ganglanrl slayina, al­
though the killer and the victim were both 1rntlerwoi·ld figures. ~ 
In startling contrast to the nnmber of unsolved ganglniid slnvings, 
an examination of all other Tnmpn, homicides from l!);"\8 tltrough 
HJG2 shows that we have had 145 nrnn1crs and that only 4 are presently 
unsolved, a sol11tion rntio of bette1· than D7 percent From lGGO 
through 10G2, all 83 homicides in our city were solved. 
24-366-G3-pt. 2----10 
50955 Docld:32423630 Page 675 
