.. 
shall be open to the inspection of the Director of Central 
Intelligence', and such int~lligence as relates to the 
nat
1
ional security and is possessed by such departments and 
other agencies of the Government. except as hereinafter 
provided, shall be made available to the Director of 
Central Intelligence for correlation, evaluation and 
dissemination: Provided, however, that upon the written 
request of the Director of Central Intelllgence, the Director 
of the Federal Bureau of In.vestigation shall make available 
to the D~rector of Central Intelligence such information . · 
for correlation, evaluation and dissemination as may be 
,essential to the national security. 11 c. 
¥ 5. If I am requested to pro~ide certain materials and 
inves_tigation indicates that the material asked for involves a document 
which originated within an org.3:nization other than the Intelligen.:e • 
Cbmrnuni.ty Staff or the Central Intelligence Agency, the requester 
will be asked to redirect his inquiry to the office of origin.• 
. 6. It already is apparent, however, that the documentation 
being requested inevitably is going to include references to inter­
relationships among various of the elements of the intelligence 
:· community. Clear.ing eacn anci every su1.;1J. . .r:t::.i:t::.:. c.w:..c wi.t!i ::. ·.-:::.-,:;· 
agency.mentioned could manifestly be ex~remely consuming of time 
and manpower. : ,. • 
.. 
~ 7. I propose the Ad Hoc Group agree on the following procedure. 
Where it appears that truly sensitive matters al,"'e involved, the • 
material will be sanitized by the agency concerned and a check will 
be made with the appropriate: Thi;d Agency organizations before 
r~,lease. Where the reference concerns a Third Agency .indirectly 
,1 (p.r).s not considered sensitivE: and does n~t pose policy c~rns, the 
agency concerned may forward the material to the requesting Select 
Cornrnittee without an item-by-item, mention-by-mention clearance 
with Third Agencies. However, in all cases notification that such 
material has been forwarded will be made to the central index and 
\ 
NW 382'96 Docld:J2989fi23 239 
