13-00000 
SUBJECT: The JFK Declassification Experience 
released in May 2001 or on his death if before that date. 
Given the volume of the documents in which his name appeared, 
there were inadvertent releases of his true name. 
IMPACT OF THE JFK RELEASES ON FUTURE DECLASSIFICATION 
PROGRAMS 
18. (AIUO) Whether the JFK Act is, or should be 
considered, precedent-establishing has been argued since 
its passage. It addresses a unique, highly emotional event, 
of obvious interest to the public; and it should serve as a 
catalyst for future declassification policy discussion. But 
it should not be considered to have set a legal precedent. 
What should result is what the ARRB directed in the case.-
of exact duplicate documents: that they all be handled 
consistently, with the same, or no, redactions. Other 
documents concerning the same or a similar event, not exact 
duplicates but relevant to the issue, and not subject to the 
tight legal demands of the JFK legislation, could be reviewed 
in accordance with the exemptions allowed under the FOIA or 
the Executive Order. However, the basic factor in deciding 
on release or denial should not be the avoidance of 
embarrassment through inconsistent or inadvertent release. 
It should be the current need for protection of sources and 
methods. 
19. (U) The JFK experience did demonstrate that a 
traditional generic sources and methods denial is not always 
necessary, defendable, or smart. Instead of being negatively 
reactive, it may well be tactically smarter to be proactive 
to b~tter ensure protection of important secrets. More on. 
that below. 
20. (AIUO) LESSONS LEARNED: 
• Don't cut costs on indexing. Use experienced indexers. 
Aim for indexing all materials before review and 
processing begins. A key focus should be identification 
of duplicate documents. 
• Use retirees with broad Agency experience under staff 
supervision. Because the most common release problems 
usually ·involve DO material, seriously consider an on 
site-DO team. 
7 
