13-00000 
assassination records is properly identified, reviewed, and made public in the JFK 
Collection at the National Archives. 
The fruits of our labor from the first three years would be realized in our last year, one 
in which we would be reviewing some of the most difficult records, and potentially 
most important records, but with the benefit of our invaluable experience. I am happy 
to report that we have received 88$urances from the FBI and CTA that they will work 
with us in a final year to make sure that the necessary resources are applied so that our 
task can be completed. 
IX. Conclusion 
In making our recommendation for a one-year extension, we, the members of the 
Review Board, are fully cognizant of the difficulties inherent in extending a temporary 
commission. We are aware of the concern that temporary bodies may have~ self-, . _ 
preserving and self-perpetuating instinct, and ·wantto-assure:you in the clearest arid : · ' :· --, • • • • .,._ • 
most unambiguous manner that our recommertdatioffis ·ntotiv:ated-strictly bf out des~--:::.'·,--:~ ·, ·: •• :· •• .-·•' 
.to complete the job. My colleagues and"! were appointed as private citizens and have 
many competing claims on our time and energy. It is our collective conviction that the 
additional time is necessary and our sincerest commitment that we will complete our 
task by the end of Fiscal Year 1998; if given the means. 
I wot.11.d like to note that, as you may be aware, the Administration is supportive of the 
one-year extension for the Review Board and has submitted an FY 1998 budget 
amendment to allow us to complete our work, close out our operation, and submit our 
final report. 
• Since the Review Board began this effort three years ago, we have witnessed the 
widespread and passionate inter~t that the American public has in the assassination of 
President Kennedy. We have received thousands of letters, telephone calls, faxes and 
e-mail messages from individuals who care deeply about our history. They come from 
all walks of life, from all over the country, and are of all ages. Their interest is of 
varying degrees and they do not all agree on what happened in Dallas on November 22, 
1963. However, they do agree that the public has the right to see the files on the 
assassination. 
I believe that what the Review Board is all about can be summed up in a letter we 
received from a man from California just last week.· The author is not a professional 
historian, not a student working on a paper for a history class, but simply a private 
citizen interested in learning about this tragic historical event. He wrote the following: 
''In my humble opinion, it appears that the ARRB is having a healing effect 
10 
