( 
_( 
... 
_.CTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIG1 .'IS 87G 
6. Character 
a. The designation nsecurity Matter" (SM where appropriate) i"s to be· set 
out in all instances. Use organizational affiliation where organiza­
tion with which subject is affiliated is under current or continuing 
investigation or where a Bureau-approved thumbnail sketch exists. 
Examples: Security Matter C (Communist) 
Security Matter - SWP (Socialist Workers Party) 
Security Matter - SMC (Student Mobilization Committee) 
b. Every effort is to be made to use a meaningful organizational affilia­
tion or nationalistic tendency designation; however, where this cannot 
be done, following designations should be used: : . 
(1) Security Matter - Subversive (Whei;e activity of subject co~sists 
primarily of efforts to disrupt or destroy Government operations 
·_ through violent protest and is in line with espousai or support of 
philosophy which advocates overthrow of Government by any means 
possible, including force and violence, and/or a demonstrated 
propensity for violence to achieve the same objective or to. deny 
others their rights under the Constitutiono) 
(2) Security Matter - New Left (Where activity of. iubject is primarily 
extremist, student and/or communal-existence oriented and relates· 
to violent efforts to disrupt or destroy Government operations 
in line with espousal or support of a philosophy which advocates 
,- overthrow of the Government by any ~1eans possible, including force 
and violence, and/or a demonstrated propensity for violence to 
achieve the same objective or tq deny others their rights under 
the Constitution.) 
7. Status 
Carry cases as pending until all active investigation has been conducted. 
Thereafter, status shall be as follows: 
a. Category I: Cases should remain in pending status and report or LI-IM 
·submitted six months from date of last report or LHM •. 
b. Category II: Cases should be reopened 45 days prior to six months 
from date of last verification to meet annual reporting and six­
month verifications requirements. 
c. Category III: Cases should be reopened 45 days :prior to one year 
from date of last annual verifications to meet annual reporting and 
verifications requirements. 
d. Category IV: Cases in which there have been reports, or LHMs in lieu 
of reports, or verifications within last year should be reopened 45 
days prior to one year from that date to meet annual verifications 
requirem~nts and 45 days prior t~ two years from that date to meet 
biennial reporting requirements. 
e. Subjects recommended for ADEX 
(1) Pending inactive 
If all active investigation completed at time FD-122 forwarded 
to Bureau, set forth lead to follow for ADEX approval. 
(2) Closed 
After ADEX approved, follow by administrative tickler for periodic 
report. 
f. Subject not being recommended for ADEX 
Closed - prior to closing, comply wi·;;h instructions pertaining to 
interviews. 
8. Content 
a. Includ·e following and handle under topical headings (both in reports 
and LHMs) \where appropriateo 
. (1) Background 
(a) Birth data 
(b) Citizenship status 
43 
4-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:3298952.9 Page 1943 
l ·i 
I l ! 
I . ! I 
I ·1 
l 
I 
