( 
(-
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
r 
L 
[ 
[ 
.J 
-.NW31B21 
- --.-·--
( b) 
(c) 
(a} 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h). . 
,..-
,'CTION 87. Si;CURITY I1TVE'STIGAT'. is 87D 
••• • • 
~here potenti~l dangercusne3o of a aubject hao been 
established and inclusion of that subject in security 
index is warranted, the office of ~rigin shall submit a 
recommendation for inclnsion in security index by sub- . 
mitting form FD-122 to Bureau. Form must be prepared 
in triplicate, Original and one copy shall be forwar~ed 
to Bureau and one copy will be placed in subjcct•s 
investigative case file. 
Nothing _should appear on FD-122 or subsequently on the 
security index card which is not in the subject•s case file. 
Form FD-122 has two uses: (1) to recommend a subject £or 
inclusion in the security index and (2) to submit chang~s 
to data which appears on face of security index cards 
already existent, 
Proper selection should be made in the opening pn.ragraph 
option. FD-122 is submitted. with ab1-1·tract when used to 
recommend the subject for inclusion in the security index 
and without abstract when·used to inhicate additions, 
deletions, or changes in data appearing on existing cards. 
When form FD-122 is submitted to Bt1.reau recommending in­
clusion of a name in security index, attach an additional 
page or pages setting out a sucoinc-b summary of facts on 
which recommendation has been based. Facts must be in 
detail to clearly reflect soundness of recommendation. 
Statements of conclusion are not enough and original sources 
must be characterized as to r.eliabiii ty. SumUJ,ary must con-
. tain pertinent dates of subject's activities. 
When, at conclusion of investigation, subjo_ct's name is not 
being recommended for security index, set out a brie:f . 
summary statement in the cover page(s) accompanying closing 
report[showin&]reasons for decision~. 
Security·index cards shall be .recommended by and maintained 
by office of origin only. 
[A current report must be in possession of the· Bureau when 
subject is r~comm.ended for security index. If it is the 
initial report in the case, it mus·l; be a summa.ry'rcport. 
If, however, prior investigative reports have been sub­
mitted which are suitable for dissvmina·l;ion and are 
appropriately documented, a summary report need not be 
submitted.] 
To assure that subject re.commended fcir sec1.1r:i:ty index will 
reieive proper attention, case shall be kept in pending or 
pending-inactive status until security index card has been 
received from Bureau ~nd filed in office security index~-
If case continues in pending status bec~',se of outstanding 
investigation, reports shall carry a le:,,_, to follow author­
ization of security index card by the n:· ·eau in ~ddi tion to 
-other leads, If outstanding investigaticn has • ·,en completed 
and case would otherwise be close~upon sibmis~ian of the 
~eport and form FD~l22, case shall be placed in pending­
inactive status with lead to follow authorization of security 
index card by Bureau. In latter instan6e, upon receipt of 
Bureau's response, case may µe closed administratively. 
Recommendation for security index card should not be delayed 
because of absence of information concerning race, sex, 
citizenship, date and·place of birth, or descripti~n wbere 
security index card is warranted. In such instances, rec­
ommendation for the card should be submitted with a current 
report anu case retained in pending stat~s with active 
inves.tigation continuing -!;o determine missing items of 
information. 
47 
5-12-61 
805 
