I 
i 
I' 
l
'L 'i_ 
.l ,, 
Ii : :·, 
knowled:,;e. He added, however, that f'.,nce· had ., 
t f · f · · · d I J. s range way o m.11H cstrng 1ls 111 epen~_1cnce, p<1rt > 
ularly, for example, on the subject of JiiVietnam and 
Cuba. It seemed ironic and irritating to,;him that the 
Frei1ch Chief Executive was apparently ~~nt on telling 
him how the Uni:ed SL1tes should prJcced, without 
assuming any risks himself. He told me .tllht no one was 
more appreciative than he of advice, i~f:ormation, and 
even criticism; but that these were all tjht more valued 
if the fri~nds proffering them were Im,, emselves com-· 
mitted to a program of .:ictiun. : I · .. 
I then asked Mr. Kcnnedv wh,1t co~dd be expcctccl 
; I I 
from General de Gaulle's proposed vis\t to the United 
States next February. He replied:" Abso)L/tely nothing." 
But he followed this up immediately aryd with a broad 
grin, as though s,woring in advance tl~e pleasure llf 
the impending meeting: "It will be e~citing, just the 
same. General de Gaulle is an historic figure; he is de­
cidely the strangest great m,111 of our time." 
Rclatio11s ·witlz C11Lm 
Taking the initiative at this point, I prought up the 
subi·ect of Vietnam and Cuba, .savin2 thAt the Gaullists 
; <.) I I ' 
\Vere not the only ones in Fr,111ce who cl~plored certain 
,I I 
mistaken US policies. I pointed out that the first time 
l had the opportunity of meeting Jol]!i Kennedy, he 
was a Senator and had just' rn,1dc a reso\inding speech 
on the subject of Algeri,1.~he idkA·s set forth_in 
that speech been faithfully applied J+ Saigon e1nd 
Havana? Herc my notes arc verv speGific, and I sh,111 , · • ·II • let the late President spe.:ik through them: 
·I I 
"'v\'e haven't enough time to talk ,about Vjetnam, 
but I'd like to talk to you about Cuba. Iricidentally, our 
conversation will be ;m1ch more inter~s~ing whe~ you 
return, because Ben Bradlee [of Newsweek] tells me 
I I 
you are on your way to Cuba now. I i . 
"Every now and the_n ·I read· articles i1~ the European 
press pointing out that we American~ I were blind to 
what was happening in the Cub,rn situdtion. I have just 
I I ' 
learned that General de Gaulle himself; regarded Com-
munism in Cuba as nothin'g but thel \accidental and 
temporary form of a will to independence from the 
United States. Of course it is very eas~j to understand 
this 'will to independence' an~und President de Gaulle." 
John Kennedy then mustered all his ~krsu·asive force. 
He punctuated each sentence \Vith th~t 11brief, mechan-
ical gesture which had beccm1e famous!: . · 
"I tell you this: we know perfectlyi -:vhat h,1ppened 
...J.u. CJ.J.ba, to the misfc~ # .-ill.. Fro/n'. the beginning 
I personally followed the development' bf these events 
with mounting concern. There are few ~Jbjects to which 
I have devoted more painstaking atteniibn. My conclu-• I I . sions go much further than the European analyses. Here 
is what I believe. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 632 
"! believe that there is no country in the world, in­
cluding all the African regions, ~f uding any Jnd all 
the countries under colonial domination, where eco­
nomic colonization, humili,1tion ,md exploitation were 
worse than in Cuba, in p,ut owing to my country's 
policies during the Batist,1 regime. I believe that we 
created, built and manufactured the Castro movement 
out of whole cloth and withi,ut re,1lizing it. I believe 
that the accumulc,tion of the5e mistakes has jeopardized 
,,11 of Latin America. The gre,1t aim of the Alliance for 
Progress is lo reverse this unfortunate policy. This is 
one of the most, if not the most, important probJ-ems in 
American foreign policy. I can assure you that I have 
understood the Cubans. I approved the proclamation 
which Fidel Castro made in the Sierra Maestra, when 
he justifiably called for justice and especially yearned to 
rid Cub,1 of corruption. I will go even further: to some 
extent it is as though Batista was the in.:amation of a 
number of sins on the part of the United States. Now 
we shall have to pay for those.sins. In the matter of the 
Batista regime, I am in agreement with the first Cuban 
revolutionaries. That is perfectly clear." 
After a silence during which he was able to note my 
surprise and my interest, the President continued: ''But 
it is also clear that the problem has ceased to be a 
Cuban one, and has become international - that is, it 
has become a Soviet problem. I ,1m the President of the 
United States and not a sociologist; I am the President 
of a free nation which has certain responsibilities in the 
Free World. I know that Castro betrayed the promises 
made. in the Sierra Maes tr a, and that ·he has ,1grccd t,1 
be a Soviet agent in Latin America. I know that thr:,:1gh 
his fault - either his 'will to independence', his ,n.1d­
ness or Communism - the world wa's on the verge nf 
nuclear war in October, 1962. The Russians understood 
this very well, at least after our reacti,',1; but so far as 
Fidel Castro is concerned, I must say I don't know 
whether he realizes this, or even if he· cares about it.'' 
A smile, then: "You ·can tell me whether he does when· 
• you come hack. In any case, the nations of Latin A1'.'er­
·ica are nok, going to attain justice and progre's'~_fthat 
way, I mean through Communist subversion~' 'They 
won't get there by going from cconornic oppressio~ to 
a Marxist dictatorship which Castro himself deno_ur1ced 
a few years ago. The United States now has .tli,fpos­
sibility of doing as much good in Latin AmetLs&Jas it 
has done wrong in the past; I would even sa;i?tHfrt we 
alone have this power - on the essential cond,Jti • ,that 
Communism docs not take over there." ·--:-,; 
Mr. Kc·nnedy then rose to indicate"f!at th , 
was over.. I ,1pologizcd for keeping him .. 
quick questions. The first: Could the Un 
tolerate ccoi,omic collectivism? He ,rnswe~ 
about Sekou Toure? And Tit0? I received M 
three days ago; and our discussions 
