13-00000 
-:£11;,c £61 
. specialists, fascfnated by the technical aspects of the project, seemed, however@;, 
oblivious of the dangers involved in secretly flying near a Chinese missile 
installation and dr6pping an object in an action that could quite easily appear 
to a startled radar operator as a.lone bomber engaging in a surprise nuclear 
attack. Development of the eoatly system was, therefore, pushed ahead. The 
technicians were more concerned with the fact that the test drops of the device 
ii) the southwestern U.S. desert usually resulted in the system burying itself 
several feet below the ground surface or so jarring the delicat~ instrumentation 
that the davice failed to self-activate and function properly.:] 
t. 
I 
tl .. 
l 
. ~ thi.rd· system was a model airplane roughly the size of a large bird,. @ 
such as a condor, which was powered by·a miniature nuclear engine and which 
could be launched from outside China and guided to the missile test site well 
over a thousand miles away, all the while soaring in patterns that would resemble 
on the air defense radar scopes the flight.patterns of a large eagle. Once 
over the target, the plane's electronic sensors and tiny television cameras 
would be turned on to record activities below and relay the infonnation either 
to its lauach site or much more likely a hovering aircraft that had penetrated 
C!11nese airspace for this purpose.. Mill ions of dollars were expended by the 
CIA in research on this "baby U-211 that called for nur.erous breakthroughs in 
'j:?}icJ 
the state of the technical arts. Its chief advantage \,:as/\ of course, that if 
and when it was shot down there would be no pilot to confess it had been on an 
Agency-sponsored spying mission] 
The technical difficulties involved in the {Eir-dr.ogf system and thefr~deQ 
- ' ·.-, 
k!rplane ;:device were too great and time consuming for either to be fully 
;;.;J . 
developedfby their inventors before improve1~ents in intelligence satellite 
surveillance programs were achfoved, thus negating the justifying requirement 
(. for these questionablgtand potentially provocative collection systems before 
they could be put into operation. Other clandestine collection devices -- a few 
more sensibly contrived, most, hm·1ever, of dubious value -- were also being 
