13-00000 
04/16/97 WED 16:13 FAX 202 724 0457 ARRB 
Mr. J, Barry Harrelson 
April 16, 1997 
Pages 
CIA-IR-OS Possible foreign source for records on Oswald. 
CIA was informally requested, more than two years ago, to use its contacts to 
pursue certain records related to Oswald that were orally described to CIA. The 
Review Board believed that, for reasons of security classification of information, 
it would be appropriate. for CIA to make the initial inquiries rather than the 
Review Board, Under separate cover, we are providing documentation of the 
action the Review Board has taken to further this request. 
"CIA.;IR-06 QI<ENCHANT. 
The Review Board seeks information regarding the purpose of QKENCHANT 
and its connection with Clay Shaw, Howard Hunt, and Monroe Sullivan. 
The Review Board was initially provided some information in regard to this 
request that now appears to be incorrect CIA is now seeking additional 
information to correct or to clarify its previous answers. The Review Board seeks 
an immediate, full, and accurate response to this request. 
CIA-IR-07 Claude Barnes Capehart. 
The ARRB staff has reviewed all records that CIA has been able to locate to date. 
During the CQurse of this review, additional questions were raised that you . 
agreed· to pursue. You also agreed to conduct additional searches to determine 
whether there may be additional retrievable records on Mr. Capehart. 
CIA-IR-08 Unredacted copy of the "Family Jewels" memoranda. 
HRG will locate this item. 
CTA-IR-09 George Bush computer search. • 
The Review Board provided 0A with a copy of an FBI document, dated 
November 29, 1963, prepared under the name ofJohn Edgar Hoover, which 
states: "The substance of the foregoing information [on the assassination of 
President Kennedy] was orally furnished to Mr. George Bush of the Central 
;Intelligence Agency .... " We have been informed that the DO has no record of a 
11
George Bush" being in the employ of CIA in 1963 with the exception of :Mr. 
George William Bush who has already given a swom affidavit that he is not the 
~009 
