13-00000 
SUBJECT: The JFK Declassification Experience 
• Develop and keep updating written guidelines, including 
those for coordinating third-agency documents 
• Establish early what is already in the public domain .. 
Take a fresh look at the "official release" philosophy, 
particularly as concerns former DCis, Cabinet Officers, 
Presidents, and Congressional investigations. 
• Develop better information on the cover status of retired 
employees. 
• Avoid confrontation on marginal or non-relevant 
information. Avoid stonewalling on relevant information. 
• Because the Information Review Officers are the key 
implementers of information release policy, ensure that 
the guidance given them by their Deputy Directors has 
Agency corporate equity. • 
21. (AIUO) COMMENTS: Information Management, 
Information Warfare, Information Handling, Information 
Declassification: at least three of these terms have 
elicited groans from senior Agency management and a 
preference to have someone else, some staffer, deal with 
the subject, keeping the boss out of.trouble and minimally 
informed. But inflexible insistence on continued 
classification of dated information, particularly that 
known to the public, ignorance of what has already been 
declassified and released, and counterproductive stonewalling 
- these factors have caused trouble and will cause more 
trouble as the "Information Age" matures. 
22. (C) In 1976, then DDI Ed Proctor wrote to the DCI, 
citing "the need to rationalize the classification process." 
A 1977 memorandum for the Agency's Executive Committee by two 
of the current HRG contract reviewers urged the development 
of an O/DDCI level (the Executive Director position having 
been abolished) policy review of flap potential in 
information release and a computer-supported index to 
released documents. At various times in the 1970s, 
consideration wai given to establishing a fifth Directorate 
of.Information Handling. After a good bit of internal 
agonizing, DCI Gates in Apr~l 1992 signed off on HR 70-14 
to make "significant historical information available without 
8 
