SECRET 
assets who have reported from Cape Haitien, Port de Paix 
and La Gonave and La Tortue Islands that they were unable 
to uncove:" any evidence of travel to or from Cuba. No 
cooperation between the station and Haitian authorities 
can be expected under the present political circumstances.· 
13. Honduras - The CIA station in Tegucigalpa has 
persistently prodded security elements of the Honduran 
government in an effort to persuade that government to 
undertake the actions agreed to at Managua. The govern­
ment has now begun stamping most llfill. passports "invalid 
for travel to Cuba o 
II However, revalidated passports are 
not being so stamped. Station assets have succeeded ·in 
publicizing some Cuban subversive activities, including 
the return of eight leftist labor leaders from a trip 
to Cuba and the sabotage of a fishing vessel which was 
being used by anti--Cas tro Cuban exiles to surveil the 
northern coast of Hondm·es. Several alleged Cuban agents 
are now being held in jail pending legal·proceedings 
against them. 
14. Mexico - A CIA source states the ~uban Embassy 
has continued to issue visas on pieces of paper separate 
from the passport, but the government's practice of 
stamping all passports to show travel to or from Cuba has 
largely nullified this effort by travellers to avoid the 
stigma of travel to Cuba. All Cubans arriving in Mexico, 
whether in transit or otherwise must have Mexican visas. 
This is not true of other nationalities, who need no 
visa if in transit. The. government continues to 
confiscate propaganda material from Cuba sporadically at 
the airport. The government recently refused visas to 
five Cuban docto1~s who wished to attend a Urology Congress 
in Mexico. Several station assets have recently travelled 
to Cuba for intellige~ce purposes. Through unilateral 
penetrations o:f th0 Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, the 
CIA station continues to acquire information on types of 
Cuban visas granted to travellers, as well as some 
advance travel dat2. 
15. Pan.ill!@. - At the u:rging of station, the Guardia. 
Nacional has been ordered to increase its vigilance 
concerning returnees from Cuba and to prevent them 
from establishing an effective organization. Several 
recent returnees from Cuba a:;."e being debriefed regarding 
their training and contacts, and severa_l CIA assets are 
NW -~095-~ Docid: 32424015 Page 15 
