... . . 
Volume.XVI - continued 
page 2 
_Origin of Autonomous Operatic~ 
Betsy pal.mer 
11J.108SG 
Integrated Covert Action Program for Cuba, approved by Higher Authority 
in June 1963, provided. for "support of autonomous anti-Castro Cuban groups 
to supplement and assist in the execution" of other courses of action. 
Concept was first voiced in Sept. 1962 in Walter Rostov's proposal for a 
"Track Two" approach to Cub_an operations. Parallel to regular CIA­
controlled Cuban teams, CIA woilld extend financial aid B.Dd some advice and 
guidance to ind.epement and tmcontrolled Cuban leaders such as Manuel Ray. 
Rules of Engagement incorporated into June 1963 program. 
1. tlit is the keystone of autonomous operations that they will be 
executed exclusively by Cuban nationals motivated by the conviction that the 
overthrow of the Castro/Communist regime must be accomplished by Cubans, 
both inside a.Di outside CUba acting in consonance. 
2. The effort will probably cost many Cuban lives. If this cost 
in lives becomes unacceptable to the U.S. conscience, autonomous operations 
can be effectively halted by the withdrawal of U.S. support; but once halted, 
they cannot be resumed. 
J. .Al1 autonomous operations will be mounted outside the territory 
of the United States. 
4. The United States Government must be prepared to deny publicly 
any participation in these acts no matter hov loud or even hov accurate may 
be the reports of tJ" s. complicity. 
5. The United States presence and direct participation in the 
operation vould be kept to an absolute minimum. • Before entering into an 
operational relationship with a group, the U.S. representative will make it. 
clear that his Government has no intention of intervening militarily; except 
to counter intervention by the Soviets. An -experienced CIA officer would b_e 
assigned to work with the group in a liaison'capacity. He would provide 
general advice as requested as well as funds B.Dd necessa...7 material support. 
•. ·He ?IJB:Y·· be expected· to in:fluence • but not control the c.onduct of operations.' 
6. These ope;ations would not be undertaken within a·fixed.time 
s chedu1e. " 
·4. Article f'rom Nev York Times, Wednesday, July 15, 1964, bylined Tad Szulc 
• 11Ray Said To Leave For Cuba Landing - Castro Foe, Balked in May, Reported 
• •. •· .. on Way :Again." • • 
. ~-. 5. ·hab:le :. to DIR rrnn-1 JMBARRJ d td 15 Jul 1964. M/V TrUe with Man~lo Ray • 
.. 7t and crew returned. K;liest area --- had motor trouble. 
6. (',able to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 18 July 1964. • Ray's latest misadventures 
trying get into Cuba mid-July greeted with relative indifference majority 
_Cuban exiles Miami area. • 
-1f"1• ·Wireservice prinout - Miami, Flay, July 24, 1964. Three exile groups 
.· v.i.thdrev from Ray's JURE today protesting that Ray failed to make good 
his promise to enter Cuba to reactivate the anti-r.astro unde~ground. 
Spokesman vas Jesus Dieguez of the Revolutionary National Assembly. 
·' 
