13-00000 
' . 
PAGE 27 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
believe the government did conceal, continues to conceal, and will continue to 
conceal the truth. If the review board is permitted time to complete its work, 
it will assist in defusing the last two charges. We cannot prevent the 
speculation that someone did conceal the truth. But the argument that a 
cover-up continues, and will continue, can at least be defused, or discouraged. 
What has been lost cannot be replaced. However, what still exists can be made 
public. We should have access, and our students should have access to the 
information and documents still in existence. This is an opportunity for the 
United States government to provide a credible response to public interest. The 
review board established by the Congress, is actually a group of citizens 
telling the government what to do, and what to release. An opportunity exists, 
in this era of skepticism, to restore some credibility and trust in the 
government. 
In his recent book, "The Approaching Fury," author Stephen B. Oates quotes John 
Furling as saying, "Events by themselves are unimportant. It is the perception 
of events that is crucial." 
Perhaps in 1997, the most important aspect concerning the assassination of 
President Kennedy, is the perception, shared by many, of a conspiracy involving 
individuals and agencies of the United States government. Do we not owe our 
young people the opportunity to form the most accurate perception possible? Do 
we not owe them the chance to see as much of the truth intact as can be 
assembled? 
It seems to me that we owe this generation, and all succeeding generations, the 
opportunity to question, to study, and to form opinions on the basis of 
information they can view independently, without solelyTelying on the opinions 
of others. Oftentimes, while I'm in the classroom, I observe students who have 
opinions, but little to substantiate them. _Congress has a chance before it in 
some small way - or maybe in some large way -- to at least provide them with 
more information, so that they may have their tum in determining what the JFK 
assassination means. 
We have been affected by this event. For 34 years we have been affected. The 56 
students from Noblesville High School have, as have countless others, been 
affected by the events of November 22nd, 1963. 
The study of this event has the public interest. It is an event to which the 
public and students can relate. It touches people. 
As an aside, last week an article was published in the Indianapolis Star. I have 
a copy with me today. Regarding our school's ongoing JFK assassination project. 
Within a day of its publication I received phone calls from a gentleman offering 
500 pages of documents for our use. And from a former teacher calling me with 
information regarding some scholarship opportunities. I also received a call 
