. I' TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST PROPERTY OF 
TH£ WHITE HOU3E OFFlr.f 
threat to the continental US." ·The memorandum concluded_that 
introduction of any missiles "will have a substantial political 
and psy~hological impact, while surface-to-surface missiles 
would create a condition of great·alarm._" • 
I. 
• .. . ·t5 .. In a memorandum of 27 August, General Carter reported 
·to Mr. Bundy what actions CIA was taking in response. to NSAM. 
181. He named the officers responsible for the three items 
mentioned above and listed the following addit'ional measures: 
a. Task Force W was to look into the possibility of 
removing restrictions on ~ounting clande~tine operations out 
of Guantanamo. • 
b. The Board of National Estimates was to establish 
a procedure to ensure continuing analysis of the numbers and 
types of Communist.Bloc personnel entering Cuba, quantity and 
types of Bloc equipment and its probable use, and all construc-
tion, particularly missile· sites~ • 
c. The Board was- also-to assess the physical and 
psycholrigical dangers to the US and Latin America of missile 
installations in Cuba. (The two Board actions, which were 
later synthesized in the paper which e~entually appeared on 
19-September as SNIE 85-3, had already been set in motion by 
the DD/I, in a memo to the AD/NE of 24 August). • 
d. CIA was to begin immediately publishing a daily 
paper on Cuba, including current int~lligence, estimati~e as-
sessments and coverage of the press, to be distributed to the 
President, Bundy, McNamara, Gilpatric, Lemnitzer, Rusk, Taylor, 
and Robert Kennedy. (This paper, the Cuban Htghlights memoran­
dum, was issued by CIA beginning 27 Augu~t, using a philosophy 
and format similar to the Checklist. A few additional officials 
were .later added to its distribution. It was discontinued on 
19 September, because General Ca~ter and the DD/I coticluded· 
that sufficient emphasis was by then being giv~ri to Cuban re­
porting in regular intelligence publications). 
e. CIA would arrange intelligence collection over­
flights "as frequently as the situation demands." (The results 
of this action make up the central theme of this paper.) 
f. Task Force W was to prepare a plan of operations 
for MONGOOSE B Plus. 
16. The minutes of USIB show that at its next meeting, 
29 August, Mr. Hilsman requested an SNIE on the military build­
up in Cuba, to be submitted to USIB at its next regular meeting. 
-7-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
