87D 
[ 
.f 
, NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIO. 
VIII. Letters requesting Bureau authority for the interview 
roust contain the following information, if available: 
(A) Residence address, occupation, f!rnployrnent and race 
of subject, date and place of birth, citizenship, 
and status of healt·h 
(D) Marital status. If married, the occupation, 
employment, and race of the spouse. 
(C} Length of time subject a member of or affiliated 
with subversive organizations· and positions he held 
in such organizations. In cases in which investiga­
tion is based on some allegation or circu~stances 
of a security nature other than membership in or 
affiliation with subversive organizations, facts 
upon .which investigation is predicated should be 
briefly set forth. 
(D) If married, information indicating the spouse is 
or ha;s been a member of or affiliated with subver­
sive groups, the ::,;,osition hel<;I. in such grl)ups, and 
the length of time of such membership or affiliation 
(E} Hembership or affiliation of anv other close rela-
tives .1 ·: subversive groups • 
(F) Inforini~· ion regarding defection, expulsion, inac­
tivity, and present sympathies of"the subject and, 
if married, of the spouse . 
(G) What ii expected to be gained by the interview. 
IX. In each letter, p.ertinent information, if avail-
able, 1•eg,·.:,•,1ing the seven i"tems lisi;ed above must be 
set out ur. • .r the appropriate number but the above 
headings i, ·,:a. not be restated. • If no pertinent data is 
available r,~garding any of the items, you should make 
the appropriate com.~ents after the respective number. 
. X. .All letters requesting Bureau authority to intcr-v-iew 
the subject of a security investigation must pe per-
sonally approved by the SAC. • 
XI. One of the re quired copies of the ·1etter to. the Bureau 
should consist only of the first page of the letter. 
When unnecessary for Bureau to issue specific instruc­
tions or commen·l;s in conneotion with authorizing an 
interview, the Bureau will approye the req1le.st by 
placing an appropriate rubber--stamp :i.mpression on the 
single-page copy of the incoming letter and retu1•n 
it by routing slip. • 
XII. Upon receipt of Bureau authority, ·!;he interview must be 
conducted within 30 days, If this is impossible, advise 
Bureau of the reasons why the interview was not effec·l;ed 
and state that the ~ubject will be contacted w1thin the 
nex~ 30 days. At the end of the second 30-day period 
if tb.e i-nterriew has not been condu.ct~d, reg_ue:it r~ddi­
tional a,1.thori ty. Incl\1.dc i11 the letters any uew infor­
mation bearing upon the adYisabili·t.y of conducting the 
interview. • 
(f) Preparations for and conduct of interviews 
:i:. Inter·riews must be co~1ducted by two Special J.gents. .An 
_l\.gent e:i::perienced in security inv-es·l;igations·who has 
knowledge of Bureau regulations reg~_rdi:ng de-v-elopment 
of informants must cond1.lCt the actual interroi{atio.:i. 
Approaoh need not be made by both Agents at t~e same 
time and one Agerrt may observe from a secure di~tance. 
Background of subject and indiYidual oiroumst:::.n~es 
will determine exactly how approach should be h~ndled 
in e2.ch case. Two .Agents should he physically 1n·es_ent 
d1.,ring any interview or cont:i.ct with known or su:,pected 
Nation of Islam members in 2.11 types, of Bureau cases. 
II. Prep~•.rations for interview 1mts"I; be ·l;horou_gh itnd con­
ducted ao that intcrYiewing Agents will not Le compro­
mi5ed, the Bureau will net be emb:u•r;~::secl, :tr:.d con­
fidential informants will not be exposed. 
,866 
40 
11-14-60 
.. 
'·* ~..f 
~ ~ 
.. ""' ~ 
