RESUHE 
l,illiam~t. Kent 
;:• fan Buren Street 
~. -1 '!": 1 n l ;1. : ? n - n 
S1"-P.-l-\RY OF BACKGROlr.\D: 1J.S. Army (1946-1948). Departnent store manager­
trainee, El Salvador, Central America (1950-1951). TKentr-six years as 
an intelligence officer ~ith the Central Intelligence Agency. covering 
progressively higher-level assignments in Latin America, ~ashington, D.C. 
and other domestic locations. Varied experience in both operational 
and staff assignments in areas of management, personnel recruitment and 
training, intelligence collection, liaison, propaganda and political 
action, field investigations. 
OPERATIONS: Selected, assessed, recruited and trained operational 
assets 1n the field for intelligence collection purposes. Initiated and 
developed productive liaison and social connections with foreign 
political, military and business personalities, in almost all cases 
using foreign languages. Sent on special assignments to conduct on­
the-spot field investigations, collected material evidence and 
corroborated suspicions. Organized, instituted and supervised individual, 
regional and world-wide propaganda and political action programs in 
response t~ high level directives and in consonance with U.S. policy 
objectives. Much of this work required a thorough knowledge and under­
standing of the psychology, culture, aspirations and motivation of 
foreign individuals and peoples in order to influence them, through 
verbal as well as wr!tten means, from one point of view or ideological 
preference, to another. Essential to the work ~ere imagination. 
innovation and drive, as well as a complete understanding of a given 
subject, a knowledge of journallsm and other media, and well­
developed"writing and verbal skills. Assignments required a willingness 
and ability to assume effectively and convincingly, a variety of roles; 
have-served as a graduate student, an author, an American diplomat 
serving in an Embassy abroad, as the head of a voluntary organization, 
as a businessman, etc. 
MANAGDIENT: In Washington headquarters and in the field, served in 
numerous middle level and senior management positions; have had 
responsibility for a 26-person operational branch; as a d~sk chief 
for overseas stations; as the responsible officer for major political 
action and ?ropaganda operations; as recruiter and manager of human 
sources of intelligence; as liaison officer to high level exile and 
indigenous personalities; as a staff section chief, staff deputy chief, 
and staff acting chief; and as the deputy of a special assistant to 
a very senior Agency officer. Responsible for evaluating the work of 
subordinate personnel and for support and assistance to promotion panels. 
Planned, disbursed and accounted for O?erational budgets of up to 
several millions of dollars. 
