13-00000 
SUBJECT: (S) 
SECRET 
Required Prot~ction of Warrenton Training Center_ 
as CIA Facility 
and to return this memorandum for retention to Agency 
representatives at the conclusion of your deliberations. 
~-
3. (S) As we advised previously, identifiable and serious 
damage to the mission, the people and the very existence of WTC 
could reasonably be expected to occur as a result .of any 
confirmed affiliation with the Agency. Before examining with 
particularity the damage that would flow from disclosure, I 
believe that it would be helpful to understand in some detail the 
activities which currently constitute the WTC mission and what 
new, costly and critical activities are being developed for WTC. 
4. (S) WTC is much more than a records archive f9r the CIA 
operating under the relatively fragile cover of the National 
Communications System (NCS) of the Department of the Army.
2 
While it does serve this function, and thus houses at the site 
known as Station A some of the Agency's most important and 
~ensitive Top Secret Codewor_d material, 3 it :is ··currently the very 
heart of the CIA's worldwide communications effort,.a critical 
2 (S} Pursuant to classification guidelines promulgated by the Director of 
Central Intelligence, this fact is currently and properly classified at the 
SECRET level. 
" 3 (S} Because of the sensitivity of CIA records, the Archivist of the United 
States has authorized the CIA to maintain this archive for both permanent and 
temporary records pending ultimate transfer to the National Archives no sooner 
than so years after their origination. This ·records .center currently houses 
nearly 130,000 cubic feet of records classified up to and including Top Secret 
codeword and composed of various media ranging from paper to original imagery 
from our national aerial and satellite surveillance platforms. In addition,­
the center also houses the CIA's vital records which would provide the only 
basis for continuity of operations should disaster befall CIA headquarters'. 
In addition and because of the security offered, the Center serves a similar 
role for the National Security Council and the Office of the Management and 
Budget. 
. .. 
2 
SECRET 
