•. 
1 . 
Memorandum J. J. Casper to Mr. Mohr 
Re: Attorney General's St.aff Conference 
· Wednesday, April 8, 1970, .5:00 P.M. 
problem here might be due to the resourcefulness of the organized crime subject's 
attorneys. The Director r~plied that certainly this is true where such_ shysters 
as Edward Bennett Williams represent these characters and he uses every technical 
trick to avoid prosecution and conviction. The Director went on to say that Attorney 
Kuntsler does the same thi1.1.g in his field. 
At this point, Wilson's Deputy, Petersen, of the Criminal Division, 
took this opportunity to point out to Kleindienst that what is needed here are more 
Assistant United States Attorneys, whereupon the Solicitor;_ General added that 
• • -Federal judges were also needed. • Kleindienst then asked Petersen if he had studied 
these cases and the reason for delay that Mr. Hoover referred to and Petersen 
stated he did not have these figures at the end of his tongue but he had a survey 
·l made and, as he recalled it, there were 185 of these type cases. delinque~t six months. 
or more. The others were delayed because· of some court motion or action. The 
Solicitor General asked whether there ,vas any concentration of these cases and 
Petersen said the Southern District of New York~· Kleindienst then asked Petersen 
how many Assistant United States Attorneys he needed to do the job·and Petersen . 
said he could not give him a figure; however, he said he felt the District of 
Columbia's, for example, staff could be increased by half again as many at least 
( and other appropriate increases would be necessary in major metropolitan 
- centers. . · 
Mr. Hoover at this point, pointed out Senate Bill 30 is going to put 
the FBI, if passed, into the local gambling picture and that ,ve, in order to fulfill 
l
our responsibility, will probably have to ask for an additional 600 Agents._ He 
· pointed out that he ·hoped that the Criminal Division would dra,v up appropriate 
guidelines to prevent local authorities from relinquishing their responsibilities 
NW 
to also investigate local gambling.' 
?\t approxin1ately 5:35 p. m., Deputy Attorney General Kleindienst 
advised the conference that the Attorney General was called to the White House • 
and requested-i:he Director;pioceed ,vith the briefing. At approximately 5:55 p;m., 
the Director completed his briefing· and was congratulated by the Deputy Attorney 
General for the excellent presentation and the Deputy then opened the floor for 
questions. • 
3 • - 2 -
Page 271 . . 
