2. 
SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS[ANl) CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] 107K 
b. Symbol number .dex • 
(1) The same official as set out in la (1) above is to maintain 
the symbol number index. This index shall contain a card 
for each individual to whom a symbol number has been assigned, 
(2) File cards numerically and any symbols which consist of 
fictitious names shall be filed alphabetically behind the 
numerical symbol index. • 
c, The above indices (alphabetical name index and symbol number index) 
shall not be available for review by .Agents seeking informant help 
in connection with their cases. 
d. Where good reason exists for an Agent to obtain information from 
either of these indices, it should be furnished by the official having 
custody of the cards. These indices should be used as a guide only; 
informan·b I s file must be reviewed to determine specific nature of his 
activities and type of information he furnishes. 
Index entitled "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" 
a,· A separate index may be maintained for the use of .Agents on inform­
ants and sources in other divisions who may be available for assist­
ance. 
b, If such index is maintained, a separate index card is to be prepared 
on each informant and source that has been furnished, 
c. These cards should contain brief background data, together with the 
identity of the Bureau communication which contains the complete back­
ground data. 
d. File these cards alphabetically by name and symbol number. Duplicate 
car4s may be prepared to be filed geographically and/or by subject 
matter. 
3, .Agents' informative index 
a, .An Age.nts I informative index may be maintained by the same official 
as set out in la (1) above for the use of Agents on the type of 
informant coverage in the division, 
b. File these cards by geographical location, arranged alphabetically· 
by states, cities, subdivisions within cities, etc. 
o. Behind each geographical location there should be a guide card in­
dicating the type of information which can be furnished, such as 
Communist Pa:i.~ty," Civil Ri.ghts Congress, Polish .Activity, etc, 
d, On this guide card set forth the symbol numbers of the informants 
and confidential sources who can provfde this coverage, 
e, Pot~ntial informants, confidential sources, panel sources, and 
sources of information who do not have permanent symbols should 
be set forth by name, 
f. When a.n individual can provide more than one type of information, 
his symbol or identity lif a potential informant, confidential 
source, panel source, or source of information without a perma­
nen·!; symbol) should be set forth on as many guide cards as he may 
provide types of information. 
[ g. These guide cards should[show]the above data and it is permissible 
to place alongside the name or symbol number, as the case may be, 
the names of the contacting Agents to whom a request may be made 
for a specific check with the individual. -
h. Also, there may be set forth on these guide cards symbol numbers 
of informants who move outside a division and who still may be 
excellent sources regard1ng past activities, They should be 
declassified from informants to confidential sources or sources 
of information. If any such individual has moved from a division 
and is being utilized by the division to which he has moved and 
has reoei ved a symbol number from the latter di vision, such desig­
nation should be indicated on the guide card. 
i, The names or symbol numbers, as the case may be, of individuals 
contained in the index entitled "Informants and Sources in Other 
Divisions" who can be of assistance to your office may be set 
forth on the appropriate gui_de cards in tl].ls index, 
-NW..&1132.LDoc:I • 797 
15 
2-12-60 
