.. . . . . .. 
,JI 
' ., 
20 Cozzolino Drive 
'Millbrae, California 94030 
June 11 , 197 5 
Mr. Clarence M. Kelley , __ _,.,.i 
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation 
Washington, D. o. r-- ; .. ,_,:~/ , ,,/ _: 
'" ~~ .... ..-- ~ I 
► 
",-. _____ ....,,. 
On this date Supervisor Berryman ··of··1;he'-"s~ Fran­
cisco Office read to me a teletype to the effect the Bureau 
had approved a secrecy rele.ase for me to respond to questions 
from Senate investigator Lester B. Seidel in connection with 
a Senate Select Committee on Internal Security investigation 
of the CointelPro as it related to the Black Panther Party. 
A copy of a letter from me to Mr. Seidel has been furnished 
to the Bureau previously. 
At the time I was designated supervisor of the 'squad 
handling internal security investigations of the Black Panther 
Party (BPP), the BPP was international in scope; Eldridge 
Cleaver and others had been granted asylum in Algeria; the 
BPP had support and/or branches in France, Germany, Scandinavia 
and China. Aspects of the counter intelligence program 
approved by the Bureau of which I am aware were directed against ,,, ... J~ 
some BPP foreign operations. Thus, interrogation by the Senate /A.,. 
investigator may involve information disseminated to other J. 
government agencies under security classification and may --if,r·. 
touch on foreign policy as well. 
Therefore, prior to furnishing information o~tained 
in an official capacity to Mr. Seidel, who according to the 
Bureau's teletype w'ill be in San Francisco in about t'No weeks, 
I would like written confirmation of the :i;-elease which was 
furnished me orally, preferably an official document covering 
any secrecy agreement made with the Bu.reau as well as releasing 
me from. the provisions of any applicable executive orders which 
preclude disclosure of official 1nformat1.on without approval of 
the Attorney General or an ~utbor1ze~ Departmental officer. 
I would also appreciate being 1;tdvised 1f there is any limitation 
on the scope of the material which I may release • 
. Since the Bureau's teletype also approved a secrecy 
release for current SAC Charles Bates, this presupposes he • 
will be authorized to furnish Mr. Seidel with the contents of 
files if Mr. Seidel so requests. Therefore, I would also 
appreciate advice as· to whether I will be permitted to refresh 
my recollection by reviewing official files prior to or during the iD;terv1ew with Mr. Seidel. • • 
) j 
cc: SAO San Francisco 
8 4 JUL 2 1 1975. 
• 
