;.. 
6H 
[ 
3. 
4. 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
h. If an item to be submitted appears on more than one page of the news­
paper, the words "Continued on page .•. ," the subheadline on.the con­
tinued page, and the words "Continued from page ... " shoul:d not be 
mounted. 
i. Mounted clippings should read from top to bottom, column by column, 
from left to right. 
j. All clippings must be complete. 
k. Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted except.that two copies 
of all items pertaining to actual or possible civil rights violations 
should be forwarded. 
1. Include clippings With other mail being sent to Bureau on the day 
that the clippings appear in the local paper~ Fbrward clippings from 
res.ident agencies the day .they arrive at headquarters city. 
Resident Agents must be alert for·materia~ appearing in the loc~l press. 
Submission of publications of .security interest to the Bureau 
a.. General principle governing .submissions 
The Bureau desires to receive publications of security interest 2.-t 
['FBIHQ.] for purposes of information, re search, and intelligence. Conse­
quently, it is request~d that evidentiary copies of publication~ be 
retained in the field and only nonevidentiary copies be forwarded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. 
b. Manner of handling and forwarding nonevidentiary copies of publica­
tions 
C 
(1) Nonevidentiary copies of newspapers, magazines, journals~ 
periodicals, news bulletins, and books, obtained regularly 
(by subscription or repeated purchase) and forwarded to the 
Bureau, need not be identified a~ to ·source. They should be 
s~bmitted via ordinary mail by routing slip {marked for the 
attention of[Secxion IS~3, Intelligence Division)]unless • 
transmittal by ·cover letter has been .specifically requested. 
Routing· slips may be us·ed to no.tify the :Sur-eau of routine admi·nis-c 
trative matters, such as temporary suspe~sion of a publica~ion 
{e.g., ·during summer months, lack of fundsL temporary delay in •• 
obtaining or receiving particular issues of a publication, ·or 
other information which will keep the Bureau informed relative to 
the status of these publications. To avoid ~onfusion, noneviden~ 
tiary copies which have been marked for i(l.entif.icat_ion .(source, 
Agent, date, and place of acquisition)should be further ?,nno-l;ated: 
iNot Evidence." • 
Letters should be used in connection 0ith initiating action or 
ceasing action to obtain pubiications desired by the Bureau; to 
call to the attentio·n of' the Bureau specific i terns of ·information 
connected with these publications; and in those instances in 
which good judgment dictates that certain circumstances or 
information should be recorded in letter form. 
(2) Each SAC and each legal attache .must keep the Bureau, attention 
[Section IS-3, Intelligence Division,]informed on a current basis 
regarding publica~ions (including books) of potential interest 
that are not included in the current list of publications which 
is supplied periodically to the field and to the legal ~ttaches. 
These publications would include those published by subjects 
of security or counterintelligence investigations and publica­
tions which may otherwise have a security or counterintelligence 
signi fi canoe. 
(3) Each SAC and each legal attache should insure that the handling 
of publications for which his office is responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. SubscriP.tions to these 
publications should be followed closely to insure that the. 
publications are received at the Bureau on a current basis. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication in pufficient time to enabJ,..e the 
Bureau to determine the necissity for renewal. ( 
5a 
3-27-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 261 
