87D 
(10) 
[ 
SECURITY INVESTIGATI 
• (c) Subjects tabbed for priority 
Security index card shall continue to be tabbed for prior­
ity apprehension in new office of origin until such time 
as it is determined by receipt of information by that 
office that priority designation is not warrante~ under 
provisions of 87D 7b (11) below. 
(d} Subjects not included in security .index 
I. Transfer office of origin by FD-128 only upon verifi­
cation by another office of subject's presence in that 
division. FD-128 should show full title. 
II. Enclose copies of all investigative reports and other 
pertinent serials with copies of FD-128 to new office 
of origin. ' . 
III. New office of origin is to investigate or advise Bureau 
that case closed if no action warranted 
Cancellation and removal of cards from active security index 
SAC shall personally recommend removal of any name from ·security 
index under conditions set out,in 87D 7b (4). 
(a) Death of subject . 
Destroy security index card without Bureau authority, but 
advise Bureau by letterhead memorandum. 
{b} Permanent departure from Bureau's jurisdiction 
( C) 
(d} 
(e) 
Upon learning of departure of a security index subject from 
u. s. or Puerto Rico for a foreign country, iw.rnediately 
~scertain conditions surrounding his departure. 
No security index card shall. be canceled by reason of a 
subject's departure for a foreign country unless that sub­
ject is an alien who has permanently departe~ either vol­
untarily or as a result of deportation proceedings. In 
such instances· security index cards will be canceled only· 
after subject's departure has been verified as being perma­
nent. If a U.S. citizen who is included in security index 
and who has been out of country is found to have renounced 
his citizenship and taken citizenship of a foreign country~ 
his security index card may be canceled only after it has 
been determined that he does not intend to return to U. s. 
Recommendations to cancel security index cards of such sub­
jects shall be made by letter directed to Bureau. Cards 
shall be canceled only after receipt of advice from Bureau 
that Bureau's security index cards have been canceled. 
Imprisonment of subject 
Security index cards shall not be canceled by reason of a 
subject's having been imprisoned regardless of length of 
time he will be incarcerated. Cards of such subjects shall 
be placed in unavailable section of security index ~nd cases 
handled thereafter in accordance with instructions set forth 
in 87D 7b {6) {b) IV. above. 
Induction of subject into armed forces 
Security index cards of subjects who have been inducted into 
armed forces of U. s. are to be placed in inactive section 
of field security index. Follow procedure set forth above 
under 87D 7b (6) (b) (V). . 
Security informants • 
Security index card of any subject who is -developed as a 
security informant should be canceled. In requesting 
Bure·au' s permission to designate such a subject as a security 
infor~ant, direct Bureau's 
60 
2-13-70 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 2061 
( 
i 
i 
~ 
; 
~ 
~ 
~ 
r 
I • ' i 
~ 
t t f 
• 
\ I t 
