13-00000 
• Here is the start of the most famous article that we ever published - excerpted from the May, 1970, issue of 
Comput~rs and Avtomation. If you would like to read this article, and look at the eleven photographs it contains, 
send us $2 (prepayment is necessary). This issue is RETURNABLE IN 7 DAYS FOR FULL REFUND (IF IN 
SALABLE CONDITION). How can you lose? 
Computers and Automation, 815 Washington St., Newtonville, Mass. 02160 
THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY: 
THE APPLICATION OF COMPUTERS 
TO THE PHOTOGRAPHIC EVIDENCE by 
Richard E. Sprague 
Hartsdale, New York , .. 
Part 1. Introduction 
Who Assassinated President Kennedy? 
On November 22, 1%3, in Dallas, Texas, President­
John F. Kennedy, while riding in an open limousine 
through Deeley Plaza and waving to the surrounding 
crowds, was shot to death. Lee Harvey Oswald, an 
ex-Marine, and former visitor to the Soviet Union, 
was arrested that afternoon in a movie theatre in 
another section of Uallas; that night he was charged 
with shooting President Kennedy from the sixth floor 
easternmost window of the Texas School Book Deposi­
tory Building overlooking Dealey Plaza. This act 
Oswald denied steed ily through two days of quest ion­
ing (no record of questions and answers was ever 
preserved). Two days later while Oswald was being 
transferred from one jail to another, he was shot 
by Jack Ruby, a Dallas night-club owner, in the 
basement of the Dallas police station, while mil­
lions of Americans watched on television. The com­
mission of investigation, appointed by President 
Lyndon B. Johnson, and headed by Chief Justice Earl 
Warren of the U.S. Supreme Court, published its 
report in September 1964, and concluded that Oswald 
was the sole assassin and that there was no conspir­
acy. 
In view of the authority of the Warren Commis­
sion, that conclusion was accepted by many Americans 
for a long time. But the conclusion cannot be con­
sidered true by any person who carefully considers 
the crucial evidence - such as .the physics of the 
shooting, the timing of a number of events, and 
other important and undeniable facts. In other 
words, Oswald was not the sole assassin, and there 
was a conspiracy. 
This article will develop that thesis, prove it 
to be true on the basis of substantial, conclusive 
evidence, and in particular some analysis of the 
photographic evidence. • 
There was in fact a conspiracy. Oswald played 
a role in the conspiracy, although there is con­
clusive evidel)Ce that on November 22, 1%3, he did • 
no shooting at President Kennedy, and that, just 
as he claimed when he was in the Dallas jail, he 
was a "patsy." At least three gunmen ( and proba­
bly four) - none of whom were in ·the sixth floor 
easternmost window of the Texas School Book Uepos­
itory building where the Warren Commission placed 
Oswald - fired a total of six shots at President 
Kennedy. 
One of these shots missed entirely; one hit 
Gover~or John B. Connally, Jr. of Texas, riding 
with Kennedy; and four hit President Kennedy, one 
in his throat, one in his back, and two in his 
head. (The bulk of the undeniable evidence for 
these statements about the shots consists of: 
(a) the physics of the motions of Kennedy and Con­
nally shown in some 60 frames of the famous film 
by Abraham Zapruder; (b) the locations of the in­
juries in Kennedy and in ~onnally; and (c) more 
than 100 pictures, consisting of more than 30 
still photographs and more than 70 frames of mo­
vies.) 
More than 50 persons were involved in the con­
spiracy at the time of firing the shots. These 
persons included members of the Dallas police force 
(but not all of the Dallas police - and that ac-
(continued in the May 1970 issue of Computers end Automation) 
Contents 
Page 
1 Introduction ~ 
~.() 
2 The Photographic Evidence 34 
3 The Application of Computers to 56 
the Photographic Evidence 
4 Appendices: 
Acknol'ilcdgements and Jl;otices 58 
Epilogue 59 
Bibliography 60 
1 Helicopter Viel'i 
Figures 
of Oealey Plaza 37 
2 Policemen and "Tramps" 38 
3 "Tramps" 39 
4 Policemen and "Tramps" 40 
5 Policemen and "Tramps" 41 
6, i 6th Floor Easternmost Windol'i of the 4:! 
Texas School Book Uepository 
Building 
_8, 9 Kennedy About the Time of the Fi rsl 43 
Shot 
10 Kennt:dy After the First Three Shots 44, 45 
and Before the Fatal Shot 
11 The Radio Communicator 33 ;, 
Charts 
1 Spatial Chart 48, 49 
2 Schematic Timing Chart 51 
Tables 
1 Index to Spatial Chart r 
46 2 Photographs Acquired.by FBI and 50 
Unnailable 
3 Main List of Photographs 52 
4 Prt:liminary List of Computer Codes 57 5 Preliminary Coding Sheet for 58 
Computer-Assisted Analysis 
• 
.. -
