• • 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 
negotiations, to establish broad guidelines with the concurrence of the 
Committee that could be used to effectively limit the scope and manner 
of interviews currently being conducted by staff investigators. I also 
told him that I thought it would put the Bureau in a most difficult 
posture because the intelligence community could well feel that the FBI 
had brought about the loss of the opportunity to have some effective 
control over Committee access to sensitive information by negotiating 
our own agreement with Gittenstein. I told him that certainly the Committee 
would use us as an example to other intelligence agencies and use our 
experience to their detriment in establishing limitations on the interviews. 
Mr. Wilderotter said that he understood my position and he 
would continue to work on the policy paper. He asked to be advised of the 
time the meeting is to be held with Schwarz on May 8, 1975, and I indicated 
I would so advise him on learning of it myself from Walter Lloyd of CIA 
who is making the ar;gangements. I also suggested that it would be appropriate 
for Roderick Hills, Associate Counsel to the President, to be present at the 
meeting with Schwarz in order to have a greater chance of resolving these 
issues promptly. Wilderotter said that he agreed and would attempt to 
make arrangements for Mr. Hills to be present at the meeting. 
RECOMMENDATIONS: 
1. That the Bureau provide a representative to be available 
for consultation by Mr. Mohr as he may request on Friday, May 9, 197·5, 
at 10:00 a. m., in Room G-308, New Senate Office Building. 
V {iJJ e,p1!'J_t<:(/l{rJ-/ 
/P)~P'ftf!_ 
2. That until appropriate guidelines are established by agreement 
between the Committee, the White House, and the intelligence community, the 
Bureau not undertake to counsel or debrief Mr. Mohr or any other witnesses 
concerning the subject matter of interview,. pursuant to agreement with indivklual 
staff interviewers . 
- 5 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38196 Docld:32989532 100 
