·. 
.-·•·• 
; • i . 
... • ... ;r· 
January 15, 1960 
BERNARD J. GOLDFINE 
. Although we are not involved in the Goldj'ine matter, 
J th i,s case is curr~n~lY_ the subJect oj' -a great deal oj' discussion 
between the Tax D1,v1,s ion and the Treasury Departrn,ent. . 
Tne Goldfine. tax j'raud investigat io nJ according to 
our Trea.sury sources, is scheduled to. go bej'ore grand; Jury . in 
Bos ton next month. Go ldj'i,ne and his nine New England compan i,es 
owe the Government approximately eight mill ion dollars. ThisJ 
of course, includes interest, 6%; delinquency penalties., 25i&;· 
and fraud penalty, so;lo . . You will reca11· that the appro:i:ima-t;a 
j'igure appeared. in the newspapers .and the Goldfine dej'ense 
charged that this was an attempt on th.e part oj' the Government 
to try its case in the newspapers. 1.Vo action was -f;aken by • 
Treasury to look into thts alleged leak oj' inJ'orma-tion on ihe 
request of the To.x Diuis ion oj' Justice since the total j'igure oj' 
• Goldfine 1s delinquency had. been discussed with Goldj'ine and his 
tax attorneys. It was j~lt that they could have.planted the 
story in the press. Internal Revenue S-9rv-i,ce (IRS) has also· 
establtshed a tax case on Goldfine 1a son~ Horace., which appro:::ima.tes 
·$99,000 delinquencY,,,and a similar case has been made on Mildred 
Paperm,an, Goldj'ine s conj'i,dentia1= assistant. 
0/ course, as preui,ously repor-te:l., • IRS has established 
a J'ai,lure to file criminal violation. on Gol-dj'ine j'or the years 
1955, 1956, and 1957. Howev~r, since this is a mtsdemeanor, 
Justice had waited until the tax Jra,ud investigation was developed 
in order to go ahead with its prosecution. The one weakn,ess in 
the· tax fraud case is proving knowledge and culpabil j,·l;y directly 
to Gomdj'ine • • IRS /eels tha-t; he will argue thct his tax cJ'j'airs 
were hand.Ied by a competen. ·t ta;: j'irm and he had· every right -to 
J'eel that h ts ta:r: aJJ·ai,rs were being ha.ndle(j. wi,th, in the law. 
In addition to the tax fraud investigation., the Inspection 
Servi,ce o/ Il?,S looked into the Goldj'ine TJatter to determine the· 
extent of afiy irregularities or misconduct on the part of Revenue 
employees. The investigcr,-tion hca not developed any crim,i,nal 
violations•on the pa.rt oj' IRS employees~ The repor·b does re/lec·t 
gross a_dministrative j'ai,lures an.d irregularities in -the hcndl ing 
o/ work in the Boston Region. Much oj' this was due to the j~ct 
that Goldj'ine assigned all oj• his tax matters in. the New England 
area to Lal:)rence P. Harri,ngton, a j'ormer IRS employee. Ha·rrington 
