13-00000 ,uu\D 
-2-
has opened up previously classified records from numerous agencies and departments, 
including the CIA, NSA, FBI, the Departments of State, Defense, Treasury. and Justice, 
as well as the Military Services, Secret Service, Senate and House Committees, and 
the National Security Council. • 
Under the JFK Act, agencies are required either to open assassination records in 
full. or·to present to the Review Board proposed redactions and evidence in support of 
their proposed redactions. After receMng the agencies' evidence, the Review Board 
deliberates and makes "formal determinations• as to whether the records should be 
opened. The Board's determinations have been· overwhelmingly In favor of opening 
records. If an agency disagrees with the fonnal detennlnatlon of the Review Board, its 
sole recourse is to appeal the Board's decisions to the President. Thus far, only one 
agency, the FBI, has appealed Board decisions. (The appeals ultimately Involved 
approximately 90 records and four different Issues.) After extensive briefings had been 
submitted to the President·- with each side arguing why the records should or should 
not be released - the FBI ultimately withdrew its appeals and negotiated with the 
Review Board for resolution of the issues. Without exception, every formal 
determination ultimately made by the Review Board has prevailed and records have 
been released in accordance with Board decisions. It has now been almost two years 
since an agency has appealed a decision to the President. Thus, the Board's work has 
been a success. Although I do not consider the JFK Act to be the precise model for 
future government-wide declasslflcation efforts, It nevertheless has provided valuable • 
leJsons that may.be of use to you as you conslder·S;·Y-12;·' • "-·--· --------· --------- ·--------
II. The "Four Noble Truths" of Declassification 
In my opinion, any legislation that would attempt to have a significant Impact on 
the culture of secrecy must do more than articulate worthy goals and establish 
bureaucratic entitles to reiterate those goals: Effective legislation must address the 
significant institutional Impediments to declasslflcatfon. Any conscientious effort· to 
change the secrecy system should take Into aooount what I will can the 
11
Four Noble 
Truths" of declasslfication: • 
first. an independent entity, not the classifying agency, should be the final 
decision maker on declassification; 
second, the independent declassification entity should be informed, committed, 
and skeptical; • 
third, In order for declassification to be successful, there must be Internal 
institutional Incentives to declassify information; and 
fourth, the key to successful declassification is not the articulation of the 
la!003 
