13-00000 
PAGE 31 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
time. We need to get the information to the American public. 
REP. HASTERT: Thank you very much. Mr. Hitchcock, I want to ask you, bringing 
students into the real realm of research and learning in that respect, how 
important is it that records like this be made available to the public so that· 
folks like yourself can have the availability for students? 
MR. HITCHCOCK: I think, Mr. Chairman, it is extremely important for not only 
teachers of history and historians but also for future students and future 
generations. One of the things so special about our relationship with the review 
board has not only been an opportunity for students to travel to Washington, and 
they pay their own way and they do their own research on their on time. But it 
has helped change opinions in many cases by students about not only the 
assassination but about government, politics, agencies and people who work for 
the government. • 
I cannot overstate the importance this has had for the 43 thus far, and soon to 
be 56, students from Noblesville High School who have had this research 
opportunity, that have been able actually to see, handle original documents, to 
work with documents, to see firsthand the evidence that exists. To have that 
opportunity is something that no teacher, no classroom, no film, no laser disk, 
nothing in the classroom can simulate such interest and focus as this trip to 
Washington DC, the review of documents, the working with people that we've had 
the opportunity to be with at the review board on a firsthand basis. 
It is just something that cannot be duplicated, or as I said, simulated in any 
classroom anywhere in the country. It's just been a fantastic opportunity and 
will provide students in the future with a place to go to find those records, to 
look at the records, to look at the documents, and be at least assured that as 
much as is available and is in existence can now be made available to them as 
ordinary citizens of this country,. whether they be students at a university, 
students at a high school, or in their just curiosity and interest as American 
citizens. 
I don't think it can be overstated the impact that this will have in helping 
bridge that gap of skepticism, If this is the correct way to say it, that 
exists. I just cannot imagine what the many conspiracy theorists out there would 
think if the review board has to finish its stay without completing its work. 
REP. HASTERT: Thank you. The gentleman from Ohio. 
REP. LATOURETTE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
And Mr. Chairman, I would begin by indicating that my earlier query about your 
legal training was not meant to be an affront, and I should have recognized that 
your learned demeanor was that of a -
REP. HASTERT: Not at all. 
