Classification:· SECRET 4 of 9 pages --...:===-='-------
(This form is to be used for material extracted 
from CIA--controlled documents.) 
staff to other divisions. He said Counterintelligence had primary 
responsibility for staff review, but supposedly no command voice. 
However, they did have their own closely held operations. Counterin­
telligence gave approval on every operation. Casasin said that it was 
possible or even probable that Counterintelligence ran operations in 
his geographical target. 
Casasin said research was one of the functions of the 6 Branch. 
But he cannot recall research's exact mandate within the 6 Branch. 
He listed the branches besides 6 Branch: (1) Scandinavia; (2) Western 
Europe; (3) Middle East and Latin America; (4) ? (5) Far East; and 
the Inter-Branch. 
Casasin said the the research unit of Branch 6 would get information 
from defectors about Soviet realities and details about Soviet life ' 
which could be used to assist persons working inside the Soviet Union. 
He said such defectors were normally pumped about personal life in the 
USSR. However, Casasin said he does not personally know of any defectors 
being used as a source in his brief time in the SR Division. He said 
the agency also benefitted from FBI debriefings of such defectors. In 
part this was due to the CIA's limited charter domestically in the 
United States. But the Contacts Division (00) did have a domestic 
mandate within the U.S. Casasin said he thought the American defector 
to Czechoslovakia, Fields, had been debriefed by the agency. Casasin 
said he believed the agency also got information on Americans in the 
~viet Union from State Department information about visas or from the 
press. 
Casasin said he cannot remember who served as Chief of the 
Section 6 research branch while he was there. He said the deputy 
chief was an older woman near the age of retirement. He said that 
Rudolf Balaban worked with him and is still at the agency; he could 
probably remember the names of the others in the section. 
I asked when Casasin recalled the discussion took place which he 
refers to in his memo. He said it was the last days of his work with 
the section; he assumes it was the third or fourth week of July, 1962 
when he left the section, so he believes the conversation about Oswald ' 
took place the first week of July, 1962. 
Casasin said at the time he assumed Oswald had been sent out of 
the Soviet Union by the KGB, so he exercsied caution and did not 
attempt to debrief Oswald. 
Casasin gave the following dates in an effort to pin down when 
conversation took place. He said he left Japan on June 25, 1960 and 
Classification: -----------
SECRET 
I Classified by derivation: ____ _ 
~~~~~~~ 
