(. 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
r 
[ 
87A 
·< 
' SECTION ._SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS 
movement, or (b} impairment of military strength of U. s. or its 
industrial capacity to furnish logistical support required by its 
armed forces. Provided, however, that any labor organization 
which is affiliate in good standing of national federation or 
other labor organizations whose policies and activities have been 
directed to opposing communist organizations, communist foreign 
government, or world communist movement shall be presumed prima 
facie not to be commun·ist-infiltrated organization. 
b. Proceedings when Attorney General has reason to believe orga~ization 
is cormnunist infiltrated . 
He may file petition with SACB and serve copy on communist-infiltrated 
organization. He may join more than one organization as respondents 
to his petition. Hearings will then be conducted by SACB on evidence 
presented by Attorney General. SACB is empowered to make finding 
that organization is or is not communist-infiltrated, and within six 
months after an unfavorable determination organization may petition 
for a new determination. 
SACB is also authorized -to notify Nation~l Labor Relations Board 
• (NLRB) of its findings and to ·publish findings in Federal Register. 
NLRB has power to deny orga.nizations found to be communist infiltrated 
representation before it, and upon petition of twenty per cent of 
membership of communist-infiltrated labor union to NLRB, that body 
may nullify rights of union t-o represent its members and call for 
election to determine new bargaining representative. • 
c. Factors ·to be considered by SACB in determin~ng whether organization 
is communist infiltrated (§ 792a) _. . 
SACB shall consider following: 
(1) To what extent, if any, effective management of affairs (!f 
organization is conducted by one or more individuals who are,· 
or within three years have been, (a) members, agents, or repre­
sentatives of any communist organization, any communist- foreign 
gove:t•nment, or the world communist movement with knowledge of 
nature and purpose thereof; or (b) engaged in giving aid or 
support to any such organization, government, or movement with 
knowledge of nature and purpose 
(2) To what extent, if anyf policies of such organization ari, or 
within three years have been, formulated and carried out 
pursuant to direction or advice or any member, agent, or repre­
sentative of any such organization, government, or movement 
(3) To what extent, if any, personnel and resources of such organ­
ization are, or within three years have been, used to fur~her 
or promote objectives of any such communist.organization, • 
government, or movement 
(4) To what extent, if any, such organization within three years has 
received from, or furnished to or for use of, any such communist 
organization, government, or movement any funds or other 
material assistance 
(5} To what extent, if any, such organization is, o-;-.. within three 
years has been, affiliated in any way wi tli any such communist 
• organization, government, or movement 
(6) To what extent, if any, affiliation of such organization, or 
any individual or individuals who are members there o:f, or who 
manage its affairs, with any such communist organization, 
government, or movement is concealed from or is not disclosed 
to the membership 
(7) To what extent, if any, such organization or any of its managers 
or members are, or within three years have been, knowingly engaged 
(a} in any conduct punishable under§ 783 or§ 794 or under 
chapter 37, 105, or 115 of Title 18; or (b} with intent to 
impair military strength of U.S. or its industrial capacity to 
furnish logistical or other support required by its armed forces, 
in any activity resulting in or contributing to any such impair­
ment 
10 
B-13-70 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1909 
I 
I 
•l 
J 
i 
l 
I 
j 
i 
' I 
I 
-I 
• I i .., 
i 
~ 
( 
I 
' 
