i, 
( t 
110 
( 
-SECTION 6,. -PUBLICATIONS 1 PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
PART II 6D - E 
4. Do no·t: 
5o 
a. Idcn·l;lfy law enforcement officers by name but by ti ·l;l e and N.A affilia-
tion 
h. Show aliases of subjects of Dependents Assistance Act.of 1950 
c. Show aliases of Tictims of WSTA cases 
d. Use complicated sentence structure· 
e. Use technical references to statu~es 
f. Express personal opinions 
g. Reveal identity cf confidential informants 
h. Use Bureau exnressions like "the subject• and "the Bureau" 
i .. Prepare inter~sting case write-ups on ju~eniles, sex offenders, and 
parole violators but submit these by letter 
j. Use adjectives excessiTely 
Transmittal 
Set forth all data necessary for Bureau's consideration 
of write-up and then follow with interesting case datao 
routing slip, Attention: External Affairs Division .. 
Dissemination 
at the beginning 
T!ansmit by 
[Field Offices will be advised by routing slip when new write-ups are pre­
pared .. If copies are desired~ an appropriate letter should be submitted 
to the Bureau? Attention: External Affairs Division, setting forth the 
specific use for which the write-up is intended .. In instances where 
write-ups, either· those P.reviously prepared or those to be published in the 
future 9 may be released outside the Bureau, it will be necessary to first 
obtain Bureau approval .. 
Interesting case control file . 
A copy of all communications concerning the dissemination of write-ups· 
outside the Bureau is to be placed in the Interesting Case Control file .. 
These communications .should contain the identity of the pe-rson to whom the 
write-up is being made available, as well as the purpose for which it is to 
be used,,] 
CIRCULAR LETTERS, T~D.E AND BUSINESS PUBLICATION'S 
lo Circular letters must be approved in advance by U1e Bureau· and sent in by 
the office initiating the requesto 
2. SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-
type institutions within their own divisions to expedite circularization 
of known serial numbers of money included in the loot taken in a ·bank 
robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny. On a highly selective basis, 
on approTal of the SAC, leads may be set out to contiguous 'offices to 
circularize banking-type institutions in those divisions, and the Bureau 
should be notified that this action is being taken unless advised to 
• the contrary. Communications setting out such leads must include suf­
ficient facts to enable the Bu-reau to properly eTaluate and justify the 
additional circularization. In·all other cases prior Bureau approval 
must be obtained in accordance with existing rules goTerning circular 
letters. In all instances the circular letter must include the following: 
a. A brief concise statement concerning the bank robbery, bank burglary, 
or bank larceny and the fact that included in the loot or money 
taken was money, the serial numbers of which are known 
b. List of known serial nv.mbers according to denomination, series year 
if known, alphabetical order, and numerical sequence 
c. A statement that the matter is to be treated confidentially 
d. A ca,utionary st2,temen t that no bank employee should take any action 
which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety 
e. The address and the telephone number of the field office with a 
statement that any person should contact the field office by calling 
collect • 
3 
5-28-?<L 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 249 
