6H 
[ 
( 
PART -II 
SECTION 6_,UBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLI-ONTAGTS 
h. If an item to -be s-ubmi tted appears on- more than one page of tb:,e news-
paper, the words "Continued.on page ... ," tlie subheadline on the con­
tinued page, and the words "Contili,ued from page ... " shoulq. no·t be 
mounted. 
i. Mounted clippings should read from top to bottom, column by column, 
from left to right. • 
j. A:il clippings must be complete. . 
k. Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted exce-p-t that two copies 
of all items pertaining to actual or possible -civil rights _violations 
and racial matters should, be forwarded. 
1. Include clippings with other mail being sent to Bureau on the day 
that the clippings appear in the local paper. Forward clippings from. 
resident agencies .the day they arrive .at· headquarters city. 
3. Residen·t Agents·must be alert for material appearing in the local press._ 
4. Submis.sion of publications of security interest to the Bureau 
a. General principle governing submissions . 
The Bureau desires to receive publications of securxty interest at the 
• SOG fo.r- purposes o.f information, research, and intelligence. Conse­
quently, it is requested th~t ev~&entiary copies of publications be 
retained in the field and only nonevidentiary copies· be forwar·ded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. 
b. Manner of handling and forwarding nonevidenti.ary copies of publica-
tions . ' 
(1) Nonevidentiary copies of newspapers, magazines, jo"urnals, 
periodicals, news bulletins, and books, obtained regularly 
(by subscription or repeated purchase} and forwarded to the 
Bureau, need not be identified as to source. They should be 
submitted via ordinary mail by routing slip (marked for the 
attention of the Central Research[Unit})unless transmittal 
(2) 
( 3) 
by cover letter has been specifically requested. Routing slips 
may be· used to notify the Bureau of routine administrative 
matters, such as temporary-suspension of a publication (e .. g., 
,during summer months, lack of funds);temporary delay in obtaining 
or receiving particular issues of a publication, or other informa­
tion which will keep the.Bureau :i:nformed relative to the status-
of these publications. To avoid confusi,on, nonevidentiary copies 
which have been marked for identification ·(source, Agent, date, 
and place of acquisition) should be further annotated: . "Not 
Evidence." • 
Letters should be used in connection with initiating action or 
ceasing action to obtain publications desired by the Bureau; to 
cali to the attention of the Bureau specific items of information, 
connected with these publications; and in "those instances in 
which good: judgmen-t dictates that certain circumstances or 
information should be recorded in letter form. 
Each SAC and each legal attache mus~ keep the Bureau, attention 
Central Research[Unit, ]informed on a current basis· regarding 
publications (including books} of potential interest that are 
not included in tpe current list of publicati9ns which is 
supplied periodically to the field and to the legal attaches. 
These publications would include those published by subjects 
of security or counterintelligence investigations and publications 
which may otherwise have a security or counterintelligence 
significance. 
Each SAC and each legal attache should insure that the handling 
of publications for which his office is responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. Subscriptions to these 
publications should be followed closely to insure.that the 
publicat;i.ons are received at the Bureau on a current basis-. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication iri sufficient time to enable the 
Bureau to determine the necessity for renewal. 
5a 
10-28-63 
' NW 38321 Docld:32989529 972 
l (' 
( 
\ 
