f107F 
4. 
[ 
[ 
5. 
6. 
SECTION 107. [:.ERNAL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND .FIDENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
Contacts by Ag~nts 
a. Informants should be contacted as often as necessary, 
one personal contact should be made every two weeks. 
quent contacts cannot be established, obtain specific 
ity for exception to this requirement. 
but at least 
If such fre­
Bureau author-
b. During each contact, carefully review informant's activities since 
previous contact and make certain informant has furnished all in­
formation which he has obtained since last contact. 
c. Contacting Agent should not only collect information but direct 
informant, be aware of his activities, and maintain such clqse 
relationship that he knows informant's attitude towards Bureau. 
Good judgment must prevail in handling informant to see he does 
not become too familiar with Agent. Promptly advise Bureau of any 
indication informant is wavering in Bureau re_lationship. 
d. Arrangements for paying informant or personally contacting him must 
be specific and no doubt should be left in minds of either Agent 
or inf·orma.nt as to methods of payment, amount, place, and time. 
e. Informants should use only public telephones in communicating with 
contacting Agent and consideration should be given to furnishing 
informants nonpublished office telephone number for emergency com­
munication. 
f. Positive information received from informant should be subject of 
written sta~ement by informant or memorandum prepared by contacting 
Agent to be placed in informant's subfile and appropriately 
channelized. 
g. Record dates of all contacts, whether negat~ve or positive, 
informant's administrative file. Memorandum or form FD-209 
used. If informant contacted frequently, one memorandum or 
may be used for several contacts. 
in 
may be 
form 
h. Dates of negative contacts and file numbers of c~ses involved must 
appear in informant's administrative file. Where file has more than 
one subject, name of subject under inquiry should be noted. Do not 
set forth title of case involved. 
i. If positive information received from informant, show only dates of 
contacts in informant's administrative file. Place positive informa­
tion in informant's subfile and appropriately channelize same. 
j. Alternate Agent should be designated for contacts with informant 
a~d should be thoroughly acquainted with informant so that contacts 
may be handled by alternate Agent wh~re necessary. 
Checking reliability 
a. Reliability of all active informants must be constantly checked. 
b. Give consideration to use of any investigative technique deemed 
necessary to be certain they are completely reliable and are fur­
nishing accurate, truthful information. 
Fingerprints 
a. After informant has been developed and unless some reason to 
contrary exists, obtain and forward his fingerprints to Identifi­
cation Division if they are not on file there. 
b. If informant refuses, do not force issue. 
c. Forward informant's fingerprints as enclosure to FD-165 using 
applicant-type fingerprint card, form FD-258, fully executed. 
Appropriate field office should be shown as contributor, field 
case file number in number space, and "inquiry" in space for 
"compa~y and address" on face of card. 
6 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1482 
• 
• 
• I 
I 
i 
I 
I 
__J 
