SECRET 
D0 Training 
1. The scope of training varies with the time 
available. One agent who participated in a four­
week course in mid-1961 received basic training 
covering cross-country movement of guerrillas, use 
and maintenance of weapons, and basic guerrilla 
tactics. Another clandestine source who spent 
nearly six months in Cuba in 1962 devoted more than 
10 weeks of training to weaponry, communications, 
the fortification of defense positions, combat tactics, 
general strategy 9 map-reading, security, and sabotage. 
Both men reported considerable time devoted to polit­
ical indoctrination and physical conditioning. 
2. One controlled agent reported that his en­
tire group was. required. to f.ill out .an extensive ques­
tionnaire aimed at developing targets in the homeland 
for sabotage, subversion of military and police, il­
legal entry and movement, operation of dummy business 
concerns to cover clandestine operations, and possible 
zones for air-drops. 
3. Extensive use is made of Che Guevara's book 
on guer~illa warfare. The trainees also use a hand­
book.by Al~erto Bayo 9 former colonel in the Spanish 
Republican air force who trained the original guer­
rilla group with which Castro invaded the Sierra 
Maestra. Thousands of copies of these books, in Span­
ish or in Portuguese, have been printed or mimeographed 
and are circulating in Latin America. Some have been 
specifically revised for individual countries. 
4. We also have reports of related courses of 
instruction, lasting as much as six to eight months, 
in such fields as espionage, psychological warfare, 
political action, agent communications, and military 
medicine. Some of the trainees are women. 
5. Most of the instructors of the guerrilla 
warfare courses are Cuban. There are some reports 
of Spanish instructors. Del Bayo himself is too 
old to participate actively, but apparently has an 
"emeritus" connection. General Enrique Lister has 
been reported to be associated with guerrilla training. 
There have been a number of reports, without hard con­
firmation, that Soviet and satellite instructors han­
dle some of the more sophisticated training in such 
matters '·as sabotage and espionage. 
-5-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docid:32283208 Page 9 
