[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
2. 
[ 
p.!RT II 
• SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Ic1e.l1tification orders, wanted flyers, check circular.s, and apprehension 
o:::-ders 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individuals 
and organizations to which identification orders, wa~ted flyers, check 
circulars, and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each field office must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent tp 
firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations. 
[A survey should be conducted by Agents each year by every of~ice, at the 
time the field office mailing list is purged, to determine whether addi­
tional names of individuals and businesses should be added to the field 
office mailing list.) 
a. Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Bureau upon receipt -of 
field request. (The Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b, Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on 
the list, 
{l) The quality .o--f the assistance the addressee is in a position to 
give 
{2
3
) The cooperation which has been afforded 
( ) The following must appear on the list: 
Alcohoi and Tobacco Tax Division Missions Providing Lodging 
Bureau of Customs Pos~ Office Inspectors 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus Postmasters 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Salvation Army 
ment Officers Secret Service 
FBINA Graduates u. s. Marshals 
Hotels 
I~.migration and Naturaliza­
tion Servic~ 
(4} The following may appear on the list: 
Automobile Clubs Navy Shore Patrol 
Banks .Oil Company Special .A.gents 
County Attorneys Parole and Probation Officers 
County Coroners Plant Q.uarantine. Of·ficers 
Credit Companies Protective Associations 
Detective Agencies Race Tracks 
Enlistment Officers, Savings and Loan As~ocia.tions 
U. S. Army, Navy, Marine Gorps Service Recruiting Offio~rs 
Employment Service -[State Employment ·o·ffioes] 
Fire Departments • State Hospitals. for· Insane 
Forest Service Steamship'Companies 
Gunsmiths Telegraph Companies 
Insurance Companies u. S. Attorneys 
Movie Studios U, s. Commissioners 
c. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request, 
Should a·compeiling reason exist for distribution of an identification 
order, a wanted fly.er, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for 
such distribution. 
d. Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels. 
e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Of.fice of origin. 
has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 911 
4 
7-27-60 
( 
