. ' 
I J! 
,. ( i j 
I I 
~ . . 
~ 
1 
I 
1 I 
I " 
C 
I 
[ 
. )f 
I 
( 
A, 
SECTION 1. SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONF.NTIAL SOURCES 107A-C 
DEFI1HTIONS 
1. Security inf orinant 
Irid.ividua.l. actively e:ngaged in obtaining and furnishing current informa­
tion on security or intelligence matters exclusively for Bureau whose 
identity must be protected. Such person should be member or attend 
meetings of subversive organization, or be in such position relative to 
subversive organization that he is able to provide current information 
of value. 
2. Potential security informant 
Individual in position to become active in or closely connected with 
subversive organization or intelligence activities and is making 
affirmative effort to obtain and furnish current information to Bureau. 
3. Double agent 
Person cooperating with, receiving assignments from, and ·performing tasks· 
for both foreign intelligence service and Bureau under FBI guidance 
4. Confidential source 
Individual who on confidential basis furnishes ·inf orma.tion a.vaila ble 
through his present position. Examples would be: bankers and telephone. 
company employees. These individuals make no concerted effort in behalf 
of Bureau but furnish information readily available to them. 
5. Pane 1 source 
Individual who is not involved in subversive group but who ,'Till .attend 
its public gatherings in behalf of FBI for intelligence purposes or as 
potential witness 
B. SOURCES OF POTENTIAL INFORMANTS 
Informants should be -developed on all organizations and individuals that are 
inimical to internal security. Informants may be obtained through alertness 
in course of normal investigative activity. Live informant coverage depends 
for most part upon initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs. 
For assistance in obtaining potential informants, following is suggested: 
1. Evaluation of 
a. Complainants or other persons interviewed in security matters 
b. Subjects of security investigations who show disaffection, loss of 
interest, inactivity, financial hardship, or other repudiation .of 
party loyalty 
c. Personal friends and contacts of Bureau employees 
d. Sources of information, confidential sources, and contacts 
2o Review of closed security files and files of former security 
informants . 
3o Review factionalism section of file on Communist Party, USAo 
4. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disarrec­
tion on pa.rt o:f' subversive group members. They should not be informed as 
to purpose of inquiry. 
5. Review of files on communist front organizations looking for individuals 
who have been associated with only one or two fronts or who attended only 
a few meetings 
C. BACKGROUND INQUIRIES ON INDIVIDUALS BEING CONSIDERED FOR INFORMA.NT PURPOSES 
When decision ts made to consider an individual for informant purposes, conduct 
background investigation. Extensive background investigation should not be 
conducted until individual has been interviewed and it has been determined he 
is willing to assist Bureau. Obtain prior Bureau authority to interview when­
ever restrictions imposed in section 87, volume III, and section 105, volume IV, 
of this manual, relative to interviews apply. Background investigation should 
include: 
1. ·check of field office files 
2. Discreet canvass of logical informants 
3 
6-13-72 
j NW. ~321 Docld:32989529 1728 
