. i ,. 
~-
1 
' 1 
' 
I 
I 
Dear Friend: 
We are sending this letter to you anc~ ot,i:cr~; from whom we have not heard much 
recently, in the hope of re-enlisting your efforts in the Women for Peace 
:r.i.ov-e:,-.;ent. It has be(m too long since we last heard directly from fluny of you, 
a::1d our meetings with those of you whom we have seen recently have been brief. 
Of course, we know the paralyzing sense of frustration we all feel occasionally., 
as \,re learn of the mounting horrors in Vietnam. Dut this feeling is only 
temporary., and quickly gives W[ty to activity. As women, we bear the major 
responsibility for the preserv11tion of life, and thus a mn.jor responsibility 
in the peace movement, 
mclosed you will find an announcement of the latest national women's effort 
for peace. Several peace groups in Portland are cooperating in raising funds 
to send representatives to Wnshington. We hope that you will also support this 
effort, to insure represehtaticn from Portland Women for Peace. The coupon 
on the enclosed notice is for your use in this effort. 
In addition, we will have a supportive peaceful demonstration 
in Portland at 
NOON, Monday, JANUARY 15th 
Pioneer Post Office 
5th and Morrison 
We are asldng participants to wea·r black, and to bring a black 
(or dark colored) umbrella. We shall carry the umbrellas opened, 
rain or shine. Placards (to wear) and leaflets (to distribute)., 
expre3sing support for the Jeannette RarJcin Brigade,.will be 
available. We shall march around the Po~t Office block for one hour, 
from noon to 1 p.m., leafleting o.s we walk. 
... 
~ - ~ . . . . " . 
We hopo., if you c?,nnot go to 1{as_hington,.yourself, that you will contribute to 
.. help so.,-;eone· else. to go, ?,nd :t,h4t _yot; )411 also .join w;Lth -~!3 a.:t the. .J.:-i.o.:~we~ 
f :··po·st· Office at noon l'-fonday, January: 15th~· • • • 
•• ,• n 
I 
i 
In addition, please let us hear from you on your idcns of what more we might 
do locally. We have some ideas too, which we hope to share with you, and on 
which we shall need much help. 
Please get in touch with one of us soon. Yo1J".' help, ideas, and efforts are 
urgently needed. 
Yours for Peace, 
Phoebe Friedman - phone 281-62$8 
Roso Leopold - phone 232-1605 
Gloria Shaich pl].one 246-5249 ., 
CONHDENTIAf 
