... 
SECRET 
File Review Manuel Ray y Rivero, Volumes I - ::;r.rIII 
Volume XVIII - March 1965 ----------­
May 2, 1918 
Betsy palmer 
1. Memo dtd 18 November 1965 to: United States Secret Service 
From: Deputy Director for Plans 
Subject: Ray, Rivero, Manuel .l\ntonio aka: Ray, Manolo 
In response to a telephonic request of 15 Nov. ·1965 for a name trace 
on Ray. CIA files contain voluminous information from sources of 
varying reliability re: Ray who is well known to Intelligence Community 
as a prominent anti-Castro Cuban exile leader and head of JURE. If par­
ticular info is desired, please specify. 
2. Memo dtd 6 Dec 1965 to Secret Service from DD/P gives 2 1/2 page 
standard bio information on Ray. 
3. Memo dtd 15 Dec 1965 to Commissioner, nrs from DD/P 
Subject: Roige Cerezo, Jose 
(A 12 399 923 TC) 
According to CIA files, information dtd Aug 1963 from a Cuban emigree source, 
Roige was designated chief of intelligence by National Direction 1foroad of 
JURE, Source said intelligence group created in Marc. 1963 on orders of 
Manuel Ray for purpose of infiltrating JUP.E members into various organizations 
which operated in Miami area, as well as into agencies of U.S. govt. Further, 
. that in April 1963, Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a JUP.E member into CIA 
in order to learn details of plans regarding Cuba. JURE also intended to 
drop leaflets into Cuba of a derogatory nature regarding U.S. govt. In-
cluded in these leaflets was Subject's manifesto against the U.S. govt and 
against this Agency. 
4. Ltr. dtd June 2, 1966 from Dr. Julian Gallo :.o Ha.rr'J (Ma.hone~'?) 
Gallo is contact with Ray in Puerto Rico and trying to discover the names 
of Ray's contacts in Cuba. Ray, apparently is seeking a Mexican visa fron 
Gallo and unhappy that it did not come through. Refused to reveal names 
or addresses to Gallo and iTOuld not give information about •,,l:ere '.'.:is ::::-adio 
broadcast tapes were to be sent for transmssion into Cuba. 
5, Memo for the Record, dtd. 21 June 1966 from Charles .:.\nderson 
Het .,Ti th Ray on 28 April 1966. Anderson said in general Ray had less 
information on the "purge situation that I did.~' Ray. said relatives 
of Gustavo Arcos in P.R. had telephone contact with Arcos family in Cuba, 
a~out 25 April and that Arcos still in prison but charges against him 
were thin. "( This means there was at least one more telephone call than 
we knew of previously, and this has probabl:,· serYed to increase t:1e pressure 
on Arcos)." Anderson tells of :1is concern ar..d strong interest in .\rcos on 
the chance that ?ay :night a.ssUI:J.e Arcos ~ad been CIA agent. Doesn't know 
• if Ray will construe remark this way but it seemed like an opening "to 1.~se 
an important exile channel as a. possible deception mechanism," 
"I believe that later in the summer it might be a good idea to have 
another tallt with .AMBANG to keep up with exile thinking, and. feeding :nore 
deception thoughts. 11 
SECRET 
