13-00000 
• APR 15 '97 04: 58PM USGOVERNMENT 
SECRET 
Subject: CIA Employees 
defendant's legal rights to the information. In still other 
cases, the defense was never notified that CIA even had 
information bearing on the case, as the judge ruled that the 
mere fact that CIA possessed this information was classified. 
and outweighed any rights the defendant had. Moreover, 
under CIPA,. the Attorney General has the authority to drop a 
prosecution in those cases where the risk to national 
security is too great. •, 
10. (0) In 1982, Congress again acted to protect CIA 
employees·by passing the Intelligence Identities Protection 
Act of 1982, 50 USC §421 that criminalizes the revelation c,f ·-· 
a covert employee or the identity of a source. This act 
subjects anyone who reveals information that identifies a 
"covert agent" to prosecution and provides up. to l0 years in 
prison and $50,000 in fines as punishment. This act 
specifically defines a "covert aient" as including •an 
officer or employee of an intelligence agency .... n 
11. (U) Most recently, President Clinton signed 
Executive Order 12958 on classified national security 
informatlon that became effective in October 1995. Although 
it requires generally that agencies make greater 
declassification efforts than under the prior executive 
order, Executive Order 12958 affords human sources of 
intelligence information, which would include employees, 
extra protection from the declassification provisions. 
Under E.O. 12958, infonnatio~ that is over 25 years old and 
having historical value must be declassified within five 
years. However, information revealing the identity of a 
human.:. source may continue to be protected. 
12. (0) The above federal laws show a long-standing 
practice by the US Government to protect CIA employees from 
disclosure to the public. In carrying out its statutory 
obligations, the Review Board should gi:ve serious weight to 
this policy and afford the protection of CIA employees a 
high·priority. -· - · -
III, Q.perational considerations 
13. (U) For. current CIA employees whose.names may 
appear in the JFK Collection, the operational considerations 
for protecting their identity are similar to those for 
sources. Many of these employees have worked "under cover" 
!or CIA. Cover is used to disassociate entire installations 
and offices from open linkage to intelligence activities, to 
enable intelligence personnel to enter and, work effectively 
in foreign countries, to shield Agency employees and 
authori~ed clandestine activities from attention by hostile 
elements and from media exposure, to facilitate access to 
4 
SECRET 
