13-00000 
Dr. Land asked if the loss of this transmitter would compromise others. 
Mr. Fitz Gerald replied that it would not compromise any other agents 
except the one. apprehended, and the DCI noted that it would simply com­
promise the instrument. 
Mr. Murphy asked concerning the quality of substantive reporting, 
and Mr. FitzGerald noted that the 1,040 reports looked impressive, but it 
was quite true :that this was not a true indication. zff-e said that some of the 
reporting was very good, and there were two /f.uban ambas sadorJ}on the 
payroll who provided ~ome first-rate reports and were closest to the bone 
in what Castro was thinking. Mr. Murphy asked if we ha.d Castro's 
immediate entourage penetratecfand Mr. FitzGerald said his sister worked 
for us but that she didn't always have inside information. He pointed out 
that the 665 report"s from resident agents were primarily on military targets, 
and the intelligence comniunity felt they were really worthwhile as a supple­
ment to o".:e,,&head reconnaissance. General Doolittle asked if an illegal 
team was[tvfi}Ji.~n and Mr. F.itzGerald replied 11yes 11• Mr. Murphy asked 
whether these agents provided information on Soviet troop strength and 
~quipment, and Mr. Fitz Gerald replied in the affirmative. Mr. Clifford 
noted that with just·two illegal agent teams in Cuba at this time we were 
back to where we started from in 1962. Mr. FitzGerald commented that the 
casualty rates were very high and referred to the charts "Legal Resident 
Agents in Cuba" and "Illegal Agent Development". 
{At this point Mr. McCone left the meeting and Mr. Cottrell came 
in.) 
Mr. Gray asked if the modest number of agents was a result of 
policy or operations. Mr. FitzGerald replied that this was primarily a 
result of operations and noted that it was not the result of lack of effort, but 
because of the high attrition rate and the dangers involved. He went·over 
the lists of what had happened to the agents that were put in. He noted that 
it was presently planned to carry out approximately five operations a month. 
Mr. Murphy asked if there was evidence of organized resistance in Cuba. 
Mr. FitzGerald replied "yes", but they were now small bands scattered 
throughout the island. He noted that Castro had broken up the large country­
wide resistance networks last summer. • He then produced the chart entitled 
"Illegal Infiltration - - Exfiltration Operations" and commented on this. 
Mr. Murphy asked if the groups on the island committed sabotage, and 
Mr. Fitz Gerald said the policy presently precluded major sabotage operations 
and limited it to II subtle sabotage 11 • Mr. Murphy asked what constituted 
"subtle sabotage", and Mr. Fitz.Gerald described it as tying a rock to a wire 
and throwing it across high tension lines. 
- 7 -
