6L 
SECTION 6. 
- PART II • 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CON'.J.'ACTS 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not oro-
posing i'ndividuals w;xo because of busines·s connections or p·e·rsonal 
acti,ities or close association- with other persons will be involved in 
unfavorable publicity or become the subject of adverse• investigative 
activity, or who will capitaliz~ on their friendly association with 
the S_fi.C. • • 
4. Except where a suitable file is already in existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
5. A three- by five-inch card on each ··contact is ·to be retained in ·an SAG 
contact box in the exclusive ppssed~ion of the SAC. Each card is to 
contain: • 
a. Harne of the contact 
b. Office and home ad.dresses and telephone numbers 
c. Nature· of service which can be re·ceived 
d. Any c.omments which would ·be helpful in handling the indi:vidual. 
e. Date of first -contact and name of SAG firs:f; developing the co.ntaci; 
( Show in the lower _left ·corner on the front of ·the card.) • . : 
f. Dates ·'of contacts' ·by the' SAC ·(to be entered on the reverse side' of 
the card in longh~nd). Contacts more frequent than quarterly s.hould 
not "be listed; - ·: • · • • ,· 
g. Any·nec-essary desc"riptive- data ' - ·" 
6. Each contact is to be indexed in the general indices. The card i"s to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparatiop., and _the not .. ation,_: ·us ee SAC• II - • ••• • .... ~" • • .! --~ 
7. SAC contacts located in headquarters city must be c.ontacted· :at, leas_t three 
times,. each year; those located in ·areas· regu-lar-ly c·ov~red ·by :r:oad· trip·s 
out o~ headquarters--city or ·located in. resident agenc·ies mus:i· be contacted 
at least two·time~·each year: • • . • • 
J, 
(
I 
8. Advise Bureau immedhitely when a c'ontact 'is. discontinued: UACB. If' the 
contact is tran~ferr~d or moves to another city locaied.withi~ another 
field division, a copy··of the coi:nrn:unication advising of the discontinuance 
s~ould be designated f~~-that fi~ld division. Also ad~ise field division ( 
:of background informati6n ·re contact.' • • 
9. "Advise Bureau promptiy. of ·changes of addresses or status o·f SAC contacts. 
10. 'Each off:i,ce must submit a comp·lete roster of SAC contact's to reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and November each year, If there are 
any changes in address, emplqyment, or other pertinent data,. such informa-, 
tion should be set forth. If there is no change in status, so state. 
11. From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more "FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indication that such 
material is ~ot welcomed by an~ SAC contact should b~ made known to the 
Bureau without delay. 
12. Immediately upon assuming th~ duties·of SAC, such SAC should visit·all 
p-ersons listed as SAC- c·ontacts and .in addition Leading. officials located 
~nth~ ~ield·division. . • 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1007 
8 
12-29-67 
