6A 
[ 
t 
l 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
t1(1d") _T~e
1 
debfendkant'sdn~ef, aget? residence, employment, marital status, ( 
.an s1m1 ar ac groun in orma ion., 
"(ii) The substance or text of the charge, such as a co~plaint, 
indictment, or information. 
"(iii) The identity of the investigating and/or arresting agency and 
the length or scope of an investigation. 
"(iv) The circumstances immediately surrounding an arrest, including 
the time and place of arrest, resistance, pursuit, possession and use 
of weapons, and a description of physical items seized at the time of 
arrest .. 
"Disclosures should include only incontrovertible, factual matters, and 
should not include subjective observationso In addition, where back­
ground information or information relating to the circumstances of an 
arrest or investigation would be highly prejudicial or where the release 
thereof would serve no law enforcement function, such information should 
not be made publico 
11(4) Personnel of the Department shall not volunteer for publication· 
any information concerning a defendant's prior criminal record, but infor-­
mation drawn from Federal conviction records may b~ made· available in 
response to a specific request. 
"(5) Because of the particular danger of prejudice resulting from 
statements ~n the period approaching and during trial, they ought 
strenuously.to be avoided during that period. Any such statement or 
release shall be made only on the infrequent occasion when circumstances 
absolutely demand a disclosure of information and shall include only 
information which is clearly not prejudicial. 
11 (6) The release of certain types of information generally tends to 
create dangers of prejudice without serving a significant law enforce­
ment function .. Therefore, personnel of the Department should refrain 
from making available the following: ( 
"(i) Observations about a defendant's character.. \_ 
"(ii) Statements, admissions, confessions, or alibis attributable to a 
defendant, or the refusal or failure of the accused to make a statement. 
"(iii) Reference to investigative procedures such as fingerprints, 
polygraph examinations, ballistic tests, or laboratory tests, or to tpe 
refusal by the defendant to submit to such tests or exa.~inations. 
"(iv) Statements concerning the identity, testimony, or credibility of 
prospective witnesses., 
"(v) Statements concerning evidence or argument in the case, whether 
or not it is anticipated that such evidence or argument will be used 
at trial .. 
"(vi) Any opinion as to the accused's guilt, or the possibility of a 
plea of guilty to the offense charged, or the possibility of a plea 
to a lesser offense .. 
11 (7) Personnel of the Department of Justice should take no action to 
encourage or assist news media in photographing or televising a defend­
ant or accused person being held or transported in Federal custody. 
Departmental representatives should not make available photographs of a 
defendant unless a law enforcement function is served thereby. 
la 
2-27-74 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 231 
,· I 
