I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
le 
I 
I 
' ' 
t 
K. 
[ 
[ 
• • SECTION 107. [INTERNAL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES; 107K 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
INFORMANT FILES 
1. Opening 
a. When active investigation is initiated regarding potential informant 
or confidential source who is not subject of security-type file, 
open 134 file o 
bo If individual is subject of security case and after being interviewed 
appears to have potential as informant, open separate 134 file to 
follow informant development. 
c. Maintain individual files on all active informants as pending active 
files. 
2. Monthly administrative report 
Include files on potential informants and informants in tabulations and 
calculations of delinquencies in monthly administrative report. 
3. Assignment and tickler cards 
Maintain assignment and tickler cards, but do not show true name of 
informant, potential informant, panel source or confidential source on 
such cards. 
4. Subfiles 
a. Subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written 
or oral. File in this subfile original of each statement, whether 
personally written by informant or furnished orally and reduced to 
writing by contacting Agento Staple executed form FD-306 or chan­
nelizing memorandum containing all applicable items on form FD-306 
to original of each such statement. 
bo Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for filing, 
but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any portion of 
statements or notations thereon. 
5. Channelization 
Include excerpts from informant's statement in regular investigative 
case report when information of value is submitted. Form FD-306 may be 
used to disseminate this information to case file in lieu of channelizing 
memorandum if desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed for 
channelization and staple one copy to each copy of informant's state-
ment being channelized. Channelization should be noted on original 
FD-306 and all copies. 
6. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of 
See 11.a.nual of Rules and Regulations. 
7. Correspondence 
Correspondence in security informant and potential security informant 
matters should be strictly limited to administrative handling of informant 
and should not contain information more properly furnished under sub­
stantive case caption. 
8. 11.a.intenance of files 
a. 11.a.intain all symbol number informant files, pending and closed, 
under lock and key under personal supervision of SAC, ASAC, field 
supervisor, or responsible employee designated by SAC. 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in open 
files section, provided there is no disclosure of informant's 
identity on statements. 
c. 11.a.intain informant.files so that all information furnished by in­
formant will be immediately available when needed. 
d. In addition, mainta1n these files so identities of cases in which an 
informant has furnished competent evidence can be obtained immediately 
simply referring to file ·of info.rmant and without extensive research, 
13 
10-15-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Page 1490 
by 
