r TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF-IDEALIST 
H. Views of the DCI 
30. The only available record of dissent from the 
judgments made in Washingt9n during the first half of 
• September, both estimative and operational, is that of the 
DCI himself, who, al though vacationing on the Rivier_a, was 
kept informed by CIA cable. On 7 September, _he cabled 
General Carter urging frequent repeat reconnaissance missions 
and stating th~t "my hunch is we might face prospect of Soviet 
short-range surface-to-surface missiles of portable types in 
Cuba which could command important targets in Southeast US 
and possibly Caribbean areas." On 10 September, the DCi 
again cabled "Difficult for me to rationalize extensive 
costly defenses being established in Cuba ... appears ~o me 
·quite possible measure-s now being taken are for purpose of 
ensuring secrecy of some offensive capability·such as MRBMs 
to be installed by Soviet& after. present phase completed and 
country secured from overflights. Suggest Board of National 
Estimates study motives ... ;" (The Board's response is in 
effect contained in SNIE 85~3~) -- • 
31. On 13·september and again on 16 September the DCI 
repeated these premonitions. In the latter cable he added 
• 11no not wish to be overly alarming this matter but believe· 
CIA and community must keep Government informed of d~nger 
of a surprise arid' also that detection of preparatory steps 
possibly beyond our capability once Cuba defense system 
operative." Finally, on 20 September, the DCI expressed 
reservations on the conclusions of SNIE 85-3, which had. 
been cabled to him, saying "as an alternative I can see that 
an offensive Soviet base in Cuba will provide Soviets with 
most important and effective trading position in connection 
with all other critical areas and hence they might take 
• -unexpected risks in order to establish such a position." 
These views were provided to the DD/I and the Board of 
National Estimates. 
32. As a result of the DCI's pressure there was a 
renewed examination of other methods of reconnaissance of 
Cuba. (It should be noted here- that this discussion was 
in terms of what might be necessary after the establishment 
of a complete S.A-2 defense had made use of the U-2 impossible, 
with tbe implicit thought that only at this point would the 
Soviets risk the introduction of such weapons as MRBMs.) 
On 1~ September, at USIB, General Carter ~tated his desire 
to use RF-lOls over Cuba. He also said he thought use of 
the FIREFLY drone over Cuba could be justified to·the Special 
-17-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
