[ 
[ 
[ 
6A 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
SECTION 6. 
- PART II -
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Requesting authority for release 
a. By teletype 
At least four hours before the time of release, developments.in the 
case, an outline of the release, and statement release will be made 
UACB are to be furnished the Bureau. 
b. By telephone where time is of essence 
Confer with division head having supervision of the matter for 
investigative clearance and with the office of the division head of 
the Crime Records Division for final press clearance. While goc>d 
judgment must prevail, in important cases in which a local newspaper 
deadline is approaching, it.may be advisable to telephone the Bureau 
for clearance. 
Press releases are to be made personally only by the SAC or in his absence 
by the ASAC. 
Releases are to be made both at headquarters and the local area affected. 
by developments. All material prepared for the public must be reviewed 
word for word. It is not to contain w~rds or phrases which might be 
regarded as objectionable or offensive to a member of any race, creed, or 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized wherever 
pos·sible, and all press releases should be coordinated to eliminate any 
avoidable delays. 
In the absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the public inter­
est, no statement should be put in an announcement to the ·press to the 
effect that a subject either has confessed or has admitted his crimes 
without specific Bureau approval. In case of dou,bt, consult the Bureau. 
When the fact that a subject has given a confession is included in· a com­
plaint and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press, a "no comment" reply 
should be given. The complaint is a court record and must-be left to 
speak for itself. 
On-the-spot announcements by SAC are authorized i-n emergency situations 
in which good judgn::ent so dictates. Emergency on-the-spot statements by 
Agents limited to their official identity and, if known, the identity of 
fugitive or criminal in gun battle. If badly wanted fugitive apprehended 
in remote area and SAC absent, Agent may, in rare emergency only and where 
time of essence, furnish bare details. Contact by SAC with press should 
be effected immediately where press desires further details. 
In those instances in which a press release is issued at SOG, television 
and radio media should be merely provided with a written copy of the press 
release, and Bureau personnel should not submit to live; filmed, or tape­
recorded interviews of any kind, including the reading of the release it­
self, without prior Bureau authority. Tact and diplomacy must be exercised 
in declining to participate in such interviews. With respect to local 
press. releases, S.ACs may, when requested, make personal appearances on 
television and radio provided no interviews are conducted and there is 
absolutely no elaboration over and above the ·original press release. 
These conditions should be made known in advance to television and radio 
station repres·entatives when such requests are r~ceived.[Reading of these 
local press releases on the telephone to the news media should be done by 
the SAC or AS.AC • ] . • 
In the absence of special circumstances, Bureau Agents should never suggest 
or request a reporter or another representative of a newspaper or similar 
publication to withhold the publication of news. In the event that special 
circumstances do exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bure~u prior 
to making any such request. 
la 
1-27-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1045 
C 
( 
