( 
\ 
I 
.- .. 
SECT'..::ON" 107.ECURITY I-NFORMA.NTS AlID 
',-·~ • 
COI{E'ID·l.i:.eAL SOURCES. 107G.-R 
O.. CORRECTIYE ACTIOU ON FALSE HIFORYtATION 
R. 
1. W~en it is determined that informant or ex-informant furnished false informa­
tion while informant, promptly advise Bureau of complete facts. 
2. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in dea_cribing 
informant in future, such as: "informant of known unreliability" or 
"informant who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information in 
th.:: past." 
3. Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with review of 
all data furnished by individual and label information f1om him accordingly. 
4. All communications containing information from informant v1hich have been 
·dis·seminated to Bureau, other Bureau of£:ices, and to outside agenciea 
must be corrected. 
5. Identify cases individually by title and character, together with dates 
of communications' containing information. 
6. If information was used in reports, correc·tive letters shou;td be crystal 
clear and refer to specific report, page number, and: .change to be m.-'l.de. 
7. Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by Bureau in 
accordance with part II, secti•on 4, of Y.ianual of Rules an·a Regulations. 
Corrective action should be called to attention of other Bureau offices, 
outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
8. Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further dissemina­
tion of information to follow instructions set ~orth aboveo 
9. Set up control file regarding this corrective action, and upon completion 
of same submit to Bureau final letter under informant's caption identifying 
each case by title, character, Bureau file·, where known, and date of com­
munication. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files 
to see that necessary corrective action has been taken. 
10. If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
informant should also be requested to submit summary letters showing what 
corrections have been made. 
11. All inforwAtion from informant must be correctly labeled and great care 
must be taken to see that this is done. 
12. Occasionally, ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions raises 
a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to time he was informant. It 
is not necessary to go back and change evaluation of information attributed 
to that individual in absence of definite indication that inforwAnt furnished 
unreliable inf orma ti on while he was informant. 
13. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable re~iability ~nd 
known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, section 5, 
Y~nual of Rules and Regulations. 
CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assitrunent of symbols 
a. A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is ta.ken 
to develop an individual as a confidential source. 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning symbol number, and brief state­
ment concerning type of information furnished. 
c. Abbreviation 11 CS 11 may be used in intra-Bureau communications for· 
confidential source; e.g., 11Richard Roe, CS." Communications relating 
to espionage and foreign nationality matters should in addition 
have a character indicating country involved; e.g., IS - R. 
d. When permanent symbol has been assigned to confidential s:rnrce, 
abbreviation 11GS 11 is to,a.ppe<a.r before symbol number; e.g., GS UY 000-S. 
e. N"tunbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from series 
of numbers used for security, extremist, and criminal infor~a.nts. 
NW 38'321 Docld:32989529 Page 1232 21 
10-13-71 
