TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS -RUFF IDEALIST 
J. The Soviet Offensive Deployment 
36. At this point, it is necessary to retrace a few 
.steps in time and discuss what was actually going on in Cuba. 
Exa.mination of information now available makes it possible 
to outline with a fair degiee of confidence a time-table of 
the.Soviet program which is generally consistent from site 
to ~ite. This begins with the constru~tion of SAM defen~es~ 
first in the west around San Cristobal and Guanaj ay, then iri 
central· Cuba ar_ound Sagua la Grande and Remedios, finally in 
the rest of th·e island. Next, in each case, comes the eviction 
of local inhabitants at each site, road improvement,· and the 
establishment of restricted construction areas. Firially 
_comes the arrival of equipment at each site according to what 
appears a carefully prepared schedule. Apparently, no recog- • 
nizable missile equipment was moved to the MRBM sites and no_ 
major construction was begun at the IRBM sites until at least 
two weeks after the last U-2 overflight of the area and until 
the US had publicly-acknowledged the presence of SA-2 sites in Cuba. • •• -
S7. The first large pieces of equipment for the MRBM 
sites near San Cristobal were probably shipped from the USSR 
on the ship Omsk, which arrived at Mariel on 7 or 8 September. 
A second shipment followed on the Poltava which arrived on 
15 September. This equipment was moved to San Cristobal by 
truck at night, with the first convoys probably arriving at 
the sites about 17 September. That is, ·17 September is the 
_earlie_st' .date at which photography might have detected the 
first MRBM equipment at San Cristobal. 
38. Construction equipment and-material for the 
Guanajay fixed IRBM sites began to arrive at Mariel about 
mid-August, mirtor activity of an indefinite type was note~ 
there in the 29 August photography, and major construction 
had probably begun by 15 September. (The fact that ship­
ments to Guanajay started before those to San Cristobal •• 
reflects the ·longer lead-time required for construction of 
a fixed site). It is not possible to say how soon after· 
15 September the activity might have been recognizable from 
the air as an IRBM site. 
39~ The sites in Las Villas Province wer~ established 
on a slightly later, but similar, time scale. Equipment 
for the Sagua La Grande MRBM sites was probably landed 
at Casilda, on the south coast. The ~ost-~ikely ship to 
have carried the large items is the Kimovsk, which docked 
~ ~'t)if.h. 
--~"(~IJ) ~ 
~, 
-21-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
