13-00000 .1 
' •. . 
• !' TOP SECRET DINAR 
CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY - cont'd 
I 
! There is additional infdrmation on Cuban use of a DC-4 
laircraft allegedli to supply Venezuelan guerrillas with weapons 
!through British Guiana. A clandestine source who is a civil 
:aviation expert and affiliated with the Cuban Ministry of Trans-
1
portation reports hearing rumors to the effect that the recently 
1
refurbished CUBANA DC-4 with CUBANA registry number CUT-785 bas 
!been issued a "Guiana license," presumably a license for operation 
lin British Guiana; and has been operated by military personnel. 
I
He adds that "it is said that clandestine flights have been made 
to Venezuela." The same source had previously reported the re­
ifurbisbing of this plane and some others arid indicated that extra 
!fuel tanks bad been installed on them. (CIA DD/P IN 75942, 8 De­
icember, SECRET/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO FOREIGN DISSEM) 
1 The Cubans are reportedly involved in the serious political 
1crisis now under way in Bolivia, where a split between President 
1Paz' section of the governing party and the leftist sector led 
iby Vice President· Lechin thr.eatens serious civil disorder. Cuban 
lcbarg~ Lasalle has given two boxes of arms to leaders of the left 
;section of the party for use in the catavi-Siglo mining area, ac-
l
cording to information received by a clandestine source. The 
source, a medium-level member of the left se·ction of the govern­
ing party who bas excellent contact with national leaders of 
!that section and who is .apparently· ~r~sted by Lasalle, was given 
1
this information by a Bolivian labor leader who added that he 
!had personally received the arms from Lasalle. The source re­
iports that the arms are of German origin and had been stored in 
1Lasa11e's house in La Paz. (CIA DD/P La Paz, IN 76093,· 8 December, 
!SECRET) 
I 
1 Two unnamed Cubans are reportedly with a group of 18 members 
bf the Peruvian Army of National Liberation (ELN) who are cur­
!rently hiding in BQlivia, according to a usually reliable medium-
1level member of the Peruvian Movement of the Revolµtionary Left 
l<MIR) who is in regular contact with MIR leaders.· The members 
pf the ELN may have been returning from training in Cuba, since 
several such groups from that movement have gone there in the 
past. According to Gonzalo Fernandez Gasco, leader of the MIR, 
his group will help them return to Peru by providing them with 
~he necessary documentation. _In return, the weapons owned by 
ithe ELN--automatic weapons and "San Cristobal" carbines--will 
be turned over to the MIR, reportedly in accordance with an order 
lfrom Fidel Castro. Once the ELN youths are back in Peru, the MIR 
~ill look after them and try to convert them to the cause. The 
bbject is to eliminate the ELN as a rival force. 
I 
-12-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
