While agreeing that the Government could not take an official 
stand, Mr. Merchant expressed his personal opinion that if the 
companies should suspend operations, this would give the Soviets a 
.great opportunity, given the fact that the Cuban economy is so dependent 
on oil. He pointed out that no alternative leader to Castro has yet 
emerged, and that the United States would be held liabie for any 
economic crisis that might be preci:pitateci in this way __ 
Mr. Gray related the consideration of this sort of action to the 
sugar project discussed three weeks ago by the Group. He emphasized 
that in his opinion these are isolated actions and that any moves of 
this kind should be made only after an over-all consideration of 
whether and how the United States wishes to move against Castro. 
Mr. Irwin to~k some exception to this, indicating that he thought it 
wa·s possible and perhaps desirable to take such actions as those 
contemplated in the sugar proposal, apart from any concerted across­
thevboard program. Mr. Dulles emphasized that in any case we will 
have to decide before long whether covert action should be taken in 
\ 
Cuba. • 
It was then agreed that a special meeting of the Group should be 
held on Monday, March 14th, to copsider what might and should be 
done in Cuba. It was agreed that in addition to the regular members, 
Mr. Rubottom, Admiral Burke, Mr. Bissell, Mr. King and perhaps 
Colonel Lansdale should attend. • 
There was then a brief discussion of Admiral Burke's letter to 
7 
_j 
Mr. ~erchant. It developed that the attachment to·thls letter has now 
been given the status of a JCS document but that it has·not been forwarded 
to the NSC as the JCS had. desired. (Mr. Irwin said tha_t he had held 
up this action because of the informal nature of the letter.) Mr. Merchant 
said the Department is preparing comments and that he hoped the JCS 
paper would not be considered apart from State's comments. 
Mr: Dulles said that we would require a policy decision on 
whether a black radio could be established on _U.S. territory, probably 
in the Florida Keys. It was agreed that this proposal should be staffed 
through the Scott office. 
t - ~ ': .. -- .. ,~·-· ... -~~·,; :_-) 
PROf'c'f'.Y 1 •
1 
Tl-IE Wrl\TE \-lOLS·~ ,:: • 
NW 50955 Docid:32423488 Page 43 
f 
