13-00000 
04/2·3/97 WED 15:53 FAX 202 724 0457 . ~,.._ --· - --- --- -- -- ~-- ~002 
Assassination Records Review Board 
c~· .. '. : ..... :·\·.~.} ()B-.JECTION TO 
;C;\:"iON AND/OR 
;- ._j;7 (\:\ '.NFORMATION 
tr~ 1·;-ns [;C:CUfViENT 
Guidelines for Review of Postponements in the Segregated Collections 
Adopted: April 23, 1997 .,. , 
Background 
In order to ensure that the Review Board will be able to complete Its task of reviewing 
all identified assassination records, the Board recently took two significant steps.' First, 
on November 13, 1996, it adopted guidelines with respect to reviewing ~Segregated 
Collections"·with regard to Information that is "not believed relevant" (NBR);!o tt}e · 
assassination. Second, in February 1997, the Review Board req~est~d C6ng~s t~ 
extend its tenure for one additional year. • - ; 
It is the Review Board's judgment that, even with the assumption that our operations 
may be extended through Fiscal Year 1998, the Review Board cannot hope to complete 
review of postponements in the Segregated Collections under the current method of 
review. In particular, a reasonable modification of curren\ postponement standards 
would greatly expedite and facllitate the release of additional Information and records. 
, Otherwise, the Review Board might cease operations without having reviewed claimed 
postponements In tens of thousands of pages of FBI and CIA records. 
• Postponement Criteria for the Segregated Collections 
In a further effort to enhance the Review Board's work, the. Review Board now issues 
these revised guidelines for the review of records in the Segregated Collectlons, 1 
(These guidelines do not affect the FBl's Core and Related Files or the CIA's 201 file on 
Oswald.) The four principal factors that underlie these review guidelines are: first, 
continuing, to the greatest reasonable extent, the Review Board's established 
guidelines for postponements that have emeirged over the past two years; second, 
establishing guidelines consistent with the Review Board's decision regarding NBR 
records; third, establishing reasonable and workable guldellnes that will enable the 
1The regulations adopted by the Board on November 13, 1996, define 
"Segregated Collections• as including first, FBI records that were requested by: (a) the 
House Select Committee on Assassinations (''HSCA") in conjunction with its 
investigation into the Kennedy assassination; (b) the Church Committee in conjunction 
with its inquiry Into issues related to the Kennedy assassination; and (c) by other bodies 
( e.g., Pike Committee, Abzug Committee, etc.) that relate to the Kennedy 
assassination; and second, CIA records including (a) the CIA's Sequestered Collection 
of 63 boxes as well as one box of microfilm records and the microfilm records (box 64), 
and (b) several boxes.of CIA staff "working files." 
