13-00000 
SECRET Page 2 
WTC/Memorandum for the Record 
( KEY: C/96-05677) 
Pereira said that the 1992 Act specifies that the Board must have "clear and convincing evidence" if we want to postpone 
release, and said that the Board requires "current justification" if we want to protect agent identities, sources and methods, or 
liaison identities. Under the law, the Board has the authority to release all information, and must justify in the Federal Register 
within 14 days any redactions. The Board sees the full text of all documents. Pereira said that we negotiate with the Board 
the use of summaries or generic descriptions (such as@ubstituting "a northern European station" for Helsinki) and that the 
Board is making an "honest effort" to see the connection between 30 year old information and current damage to Agency 
equities. Dupart asked rhetorically whether the Board understood the concept of ongoing liaison, with Wickham saying that 
the Board clearly had a different perspective from the DO, and that the ADDO, General Counsel, Cover Staff and others have 
briefed the Board in detail to address this "problem." Harrelson pointed out that ou(foint-te!taps had recorded-Oswald hi~ 
although we assured the clearly unhappy Dupart that we are trying to protect the fact thatil@ison cooperated in the teltaps~ We 
also noted our effort to protect the identities of covert Agency employees, although we are working particularly hard iriic{ses 
where the Agency employees now reside overseas. Pereira said we are concerned about the cumulative erosive effect on our 
• cover and our ability to conduct operations. He noted that the Board tends to focus on individual specific cases without always 
focusing on the broader cumulative impact of their discrete decisions. (S) 
2. (f.!~~i~~}described the appeals process specified in the 1992 JFK Act. She also lent Sheehy a copy of the act, which he 
studied carefully during the briefing. Under the 1992 act, documents related to JFK carry the "presumption of release," with the 
Board defining which records fall under the act. We have to justify any redactions or postponements, and Board decisions can 
only be appealed to the President himself (which, as~ipriant,dryly noted, tends to inhibit appeals.) The act also specifics very 
short deadlines, with only 30 days for the President to make his decision. (This means we have only about seven days to get 
our appeals out of Hqs and to the White House--a practical impossibility.) Our only appeal to date involved three issues: (i) a 
cable implicating senior~xican o!f~cials in our joiniteltaps;\ (ii) the identification of the very sensitive~Helsinki}Station, and (iii) 
the identity of a®!caraguan'!iource. In fact our appeal took several months, with the Board being very accommodating abqut 
the delay, and we finally were able to give the Board enough justification and explanation that they changed their position and 
spared the White House the decision. Healey noted that the Agency declassification team includes a DO team (as noted 
above,) and asked why we hadn't been able to head off the problem. (_Clprianifesponded that new information arises for the 
Board to consider in making its determination, and Wickham elaborated by noting that the DO is reluctant to reveal sensitive 
current information to protect old material. He characterized this as a problem of "DO culture." At the same time, he cited the 
specific example of the(M__exicansdeclining to meet the DCI on his recent Latin American J!!~ as illustrative of Mexican] 
@nsltlvity to the liaison issue] We later noted that the only other appeal thus far involves the FBI, and the White House has 
told the Bureau to resolve the matter with the Board. (S) 
3. Pereira noted to the staffers that we're dealing with very short deadlines involving enormous volumes of material, and 
illustrated by showing the staff a bulky recent Board declassification notification which we must review to confirm we have no 
problem with the material involved. In response to a Sheehy question, Harrelson reminded staff that the original redaction and 
submission to the Board took place in 1992-3, and as noted above, our redaction standards and judgements have evolved 
since then. Further, we have to double-check each release to confirm we concur, and in some cases compare substitute 
language. Sheehy asked why we would.object to such a thing as t.he acknowledgment ofCIQky?iStation, and seemed 
impressed and persuaded when Wickham patiently explained that both thef.Ja~and(Amtiassador Mondale]have strongly 
recommended against confirming the existence.of the Station. The@panese\are very sensitive to any public 
acknowledgment of ourUiaiso6)'elationship. Wickham noted that the Board is trying to document Oswald's travels, and wants 
to identify stations reporting such travel. Pereira said that we recognize the need to report the facts, but want to protect details 
SECRET 
