• 
I 
i' \ I' 
:: ~w 3832ti 
l 
• 
Assistant Attorney General 
for Administration 
C1lapter 732 of the Federnl Personnel Manual 
instructs tlmt before an a:;eilcy issues a lettci'" of charges 
under EO 1G460, the DDpart111-.m.t of .Justice shall be 
consulted to n.ssure that the rights of the eEiploy.ees are • 
:fully con~:;idered. Section 13 of GO 10450 reauests the 
Atto~r.ey General to render to the heads of d~partments and 
ngencies such advice as ri.!..'l.Y be requisi to to ena.ble them to 
establish and maintain nn appropi .. iate e!aployee security 
prog1·am. 
Available information indicates that difficulties 
of proof. inpos0d by the .courts in loyalty and s·ecuri ty cases 
hnve proved alEost i~surmouutablc and as a result no rcmovo.ls 
·or other adverse actions have been tn.kcn on thcs~ grounds for 
s~veral years and the adjudicative basis has appt1.rently 
shifted frow. loyalty and security to suitability. 
• • An. early. response in this w ... ~tter will be 
npproo1.ated. 
NOTE: 
Vie have corresponded with the Department concerning 
amendments to EO 10450 by EO 11785 and requested guidelines 
as to our investigation.s of subversi~Je Ir.atters· defined in 
EO 10450 as amended by EO 11785 as none 11:.,.ve been previously 
furnished by the Department. This is necessary because the 
Federal Employee Security Program depends on subversive 
information originating with.our subversive investigations. 
The foregoing requests clarification in conflicting language 
in the Dcparthlent's response as to subversive investigations 
and response to questions concerning the FBI's investigative 
role in the above Program. 
Although our original inquiry was directed to 
Assistant Attorn0y General, Criminal Division, the Department 
memorandum notes Assistant Attorney General, Administrative 
Division, answered with concurrence of the Criminal Division .. 
We are, therefore, directing our request for clarification to 
Assistant Attorney General for Administration. 
- 3 -Docld:32989£.03 Page 61 
ij 
I 'ii ,, 
H Jl <l j, 
I 
