. ' 
' . , 
87D· 
(·. ·--•. ':- .. 
' 
' i 
l 
1 
. 
1 l • 
I 
,; 
l 
SEC'J:I.ON 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS 
. 
. ..-.) • 
) -ctembership or affil1ation o~ any 'other close rela~ 
ti ves in subversive groups ,;,,: 
(F) Information regarding defection, expuision, inac­
tivity, and present sympathies of the subject and; 
if married, of the spouse 
(G) What is expected to be gained by the interview 
VII 0 In each le·bter, pertinent information, if avail-
able, regarding the seven items listed above must be 
set out under the appropriate number but the above 
headings need not be restated. If no pertinent data is 
available regarding any of _the i~ems, you should make 
the appropriate comments after the respective numbe~. 
VIII'. In addition, unless you are recommending a special 
manner or procedure for conducting the intcr:view, such 
as interviewing under pretext, the last paragraph of 
_each letter should contain the following statement: 
·"Bureau authority is requested to interview s~bject in 
• • ,, __ • ··-.--::· accordance with existing instructions relating to inter­
views of security subjects." The last paragraph should 
a.lso contain the statement: ''If t-his subject -is cooper­
ati -ve, no affirmati -ie steps will. be taken during the 
initial interview to direct his activities and complete 
background investigation required by section 107C of the 
Manual of Instructions is being conducted and Bureau 
- will be requested to authorize recontact with {lubject as 
a PSI." This statement in no way precludes interview­
~ng Agents during initial contacts and recontacts from 
obtaining all subversive information subject is willing 
to furnish or other data which will assist in deter-· 
mining his potentialities as ·an informant. 
IX 0 All letters requesting Bureau authority to interview 
the subject of a security investigation must be per­
sonally approved by the SAG. 
X. [One of the required copies of the letter to the Bureau 
should consist only of the first page of the letter.J 
When unnecessary for Bureau to issue specif'ic instruc­
tions or comments in connection with authorizing an 
• inter-view, the Burea.~ will approve(the request]by 
placing an appropriate rubber-stamp impression on[thc 
single-page]oopy of the incoming letter and return 
[it]by routing slip. • 
XI.. Upon receipt of Bureau authority, the interv-lew must be 
conducted within 30 days. If i;his is impossible, advise 
Bureau of the reasons why the interview was not effected 
and state that the subject will be contacted within the 
next 30 days. At the end of the second 30-day period 
if the interview has not peen conducted~ request addi­
tional a11thori ty. Include in the letters any new infor­
mation bearing upon the advisability of conducting the 
interview. 
( f) Preparations for and conduct of interviews 
I. Interviews must be conducted by two Special Agents. An 
Agent experienced in seouri ty investigations who has 
knowledge of Bureau regulations reg2.rding development 
'of informants must conduct the actual interrogation. 
Approach need not be made by both Agents at the snme 
time and one Agent may observe from a secure dis·~anoe. 
Background of subject and individual circumstances 
wi11 dete·rmine exactly how approach should be handled 
in e::-.ch case. Two Agents should be physically present 
(luring any interview or contact with known or su:ipeotea 
Nation of Islam members in all types of Bureau oases. 
II., Preparations for interview must :rn thorough and·· co-n­
ducted so that i'ntertlewing .Agents will not be oomp-ro­
mised, the Bureau will not be embarrassed, and con­
fidential informants will not be e-xposed. 
40 
3-16-60 
33j21 Docld:32989529 Page 889 . 
··\~ 
