NW 
. . l • 
. . 
I I 
,. 1 , ~ I . 
FRANK DE NIRO, JR.· 
MICHAEL DE NIRO 
LOUIS DE NIRO 
•• 
The De Niro br9thers were convicted 8/23/65 of 
conspiring to defraud the u. s. in evading estate taxes. 
They have appealed to the u. s. Court of Appeals for the 
Sixth Circuit. The~leveland Office conducted a microohone . ... 
surveillance from 2/19/64 to 6/16/64 in the office of the 
National Cigarette Service, .Youngstown, Ohio, a vending 
machine company, operated by the De Niros. In response to the 
Department's request 10/14/66 we disclosed the circumstances 
of this surveillance to them'by letter 10/18/66, and made 
available for review the surveillance logs. No information 
from this source was disseminated outside the Bureau. 
The Department subsequently.disclosed to the 
Court of Appeals by memorandum the exis.tance of our 
microphone surveillance. Considerable reluctanc~ was 
displayed by the Department to including in this 
memorandum our general authority_ for installation of 
electronic surveillances. They did not clearly record the 
dates concerning the manner in which the Department requested 
and was advised of our coverage. Our protests were clearly 
outlined in correspondence to the Department before this 
memorandum was filed. Ultimately our authority was recorded 
as a footnote. This microphone wis installed under the 
general authority of the Attorney General . 
• 
Frank Peter Balistrieri 
', 
Balistrieri, the "bosstf of Milwaukee's La Cosa 
Nostra "family," and as such the leader of organized crime 
in that area, was brought to trial in United States District 
Court, Springfield, Illinois, during Octob~r, 1966, on . ' 
the basis of an indictment charging evasion of Federal 
income taxes. An early issue·in this action was our 
microphone-- coverage of Balistrieri and certain of his. 
associates. Microphone coverag~ had been established on 
Balistrietri's office, in an apartment maintained by his 
paramour, and in the office of hoodlum attorney DominicFrinzi, 
all in Milwaukee, for various periods between 1961 and 1965. 
These installations were all made in line with general 
departmental authorization as outlined in the Department 1 s 
memorandum filed with the Supreme Court in the Black ca~e. 
- 5 - ' . 
