.,, , 
. 'I 
COPY 
Director, Federal Bureau ot Investigation May 20, 19;>+ 
From t Th~ Attorney General 
1 ' 
MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE • ..... A n.:ftm . • 
~O~~ dOl,n,£-•..:-
. AJjt,FBlll'!li'O~~-ltb, 
~b~~~--o~ 
QQNii'IDBteIMa 
The recent decision of the Supreme Court ent1 tled ):ryine :z, . California, 347 u.s. 128, denouncing the use of microphone surveil­lances by city police 1n a gambling oase makes appropriate a ~eappraisa1 • of the use which may be made in the future by the Federal Bureau of Investigation of microphone surveillance in connection with matters relating to the internal security of the coun:t;ry. • • • It is clear that in some instances the use of-microphone surveillance is the only poss·ible way or uncovering the activities 
of espionage agents, possible saboteurs, and subversive person~. In 1 •• 
such instances I am of the opinion that the national interest requ.11'98' • 
that microphone surveillance be utilized by.the -Federal Bureau o:r Inves~igation. This use need not be limited to the development of evidence for prosecution. The FBI has an intelligence tl.motion in 
connection vith internal security matters equally as important as 
the duty of developing.evidence for presentation to the courts and 
·the national security requires that the FBI be able to use microphone 
surveillance for the proper disoharge of both of such :£"unctions. The Department of Justice approves the use of' microphone survelllanoe ,~ by the FBI under these oircumsta.nce_s and f'or these purposes. · , 
I 
~ I do not consider that the decision or the Supreme Court 
1n Irvine-v; .. CaJ.ifor_nig, .. s~1nra, requires a different course. That 
• case 1s readily distinguishable on its facts. The language of the 
-·· • ( Court; ihowever, indicates certain uses of microphones which it l-rould 
/'. be well to avoid, if possible~ even in internal security investiga-, .• tions. ~tis quite clear that in the ~rvin§ case the Justices of the 
··.·--supreme Court were outraged by what they regarded as the indecency ot 
installing a microphone in a bedroom. They denounced the utilization of such methods of investigation 1n a gambling case as shocking. The Court's action is a clear indication of the need for discretion and intelligent restraint in the use of microphones by the FBI in all 
cases, including internal security matters. Obviously, the installa­tion of a microphona in a bedroom or in some comparably intimate location should be avoided wherever possible. It may appear, however, that important intelligence or evidence relating to matters connected with the national security can only be obtained by the installation of a microphone in such a 1ooation. It .is my opinion that under such circumstances the installation is proper and is not prohibited by th• Supreme Cottt't • s decision 1n the .Iail:8 oase.. . . .r --• • ·:1, 
NW31B26 
