13-00000 
CLANDESTINE SERVICES 
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 
SECU.T . ' 
CSI NO. 10-5 
. SECURITY 
19 September 1963 
intelligence services wit~ whom Agency employees maintain liaison, shall be 
forwarded by the requester to the Counter Intelligence Staff for processing to 
the Office of Security. Such requests shall be transmitted with complete 
results of field traces, all available biographical information, and a state­
ment as to the service which the subject represents. 
10. NOTIFICATION OF TERMINATION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF COVERT 
SECURITY APPROVALS OR PROPRIETARY APPROVALS 
The Office of Security shall be promptly advised by the requester of the dis­
. -continuance of interest in or termination of employment or use of a person 
on whom a Covert Security Approval or Proprietary Approval has been re­
quested or granted. 
11. SPECIAL SERVICES 
a. Requests for Covert Name Checks and Special Inquiries will be transmitted 
to the Office of· Security through the Counter Intelligence Staff. • Each re­
quest shall indicate the reason for the inquiry, shall specify the exact ac-. 
tion required, and shall contain all available background and/or biographical 
information concerning the subject. 
b. In the case of Special Inquiries, the request should also indicate what would 
be the most plausible type of cove:r (i.e., general Government or. com-
.. niercial) to be employed during the inquiry and any other information which 
. would provide guidance as. tci the conduct of the investigation. 
12. DOUBLE AGENTS 
The operational decision authorizing the doubling of an ageiltof a foreign 
power will be coordinated with the Counter Intelligence Staff even though no 
Operational Approval or Provisional Operational Approval is required. 
13. DEFECTION AND RECRUITMENT IN PLACE 
No attempt to defect or recruit in place (a) a member of the Communist Party 
or (b) a gover~ent official of a denied area country shall be made in the 
United States without prior coordination with ~e Counter Intelligence Staff 
. which will immediately inform the Director of Security and such other United 
States agencies as niay be appropriate. •• 
-SECRET 
.... '. ··-·~ --·-·----· .• __ : -~--- ·. 
Richard Helms 
Deputy Director (Plans) 
·' 
·v•' 
. ,, . . 
: ! 
