'IDP SIX:RE'I' -10-
Surveillunce of Dissident Groups and Activity 
It has reen rrentioned ab:Jve that Mr. OS!Jorn inforrred us of ths activity of th:2 
Anderson Security Associates in m2ir1taining in. the ~·7ashington, D.C. area a 
c_1--}.2ck on individuals and organizations who ,•;ould represe."1t potential threats 
to CIA personnel or organizations. 
There was also o::ordination bebveen the Office of Security and local p::>lice 
departrrents to mver t11e sarre activity. An effort was m:1de to deterr,:ne the 
size of anticipated dem::mstraticns and to anticipate ,,;hat security forces 
v,0uld l::e ni=-cessru::y to cope with them. 
In 1967 and 1968 the Office of Security directed the field offices to solicit 
or report information on anti-war and dissident elerrents. T'ne CIA was mncerned 
a.tout the safetv of its I?erSOnnel, such as recruiters on college can-puses and 
its offic2s around the cou.ntry. Its rec:ruit.L"1g office in Ann Artor, Michigan, 
had l::een l:orrbed at about that time. Mr. Osb::lrn also believes that the field 
offices v~re directed at atout, that ti.Ire to establish a clipping service on 
carrpuses and other nS'w"Spa:pers to report on organizations and individuals who 
might represent threats to CIA personnel or offices. 
As a res1.1l t of the information fed into the Office of Security relating to 
organizations an::i individuals who ma.y represent such threats, a substantial 
number of files ·were accunulated on individuals and organizations. 
:Mail Intercepts 
I--r. Osborn reports that a mail intercept progrwn in Ne-"" York City began in c6out 
1952 and enc.ea in 1973. He learned of this pro.:rra.m \•;hen he l::ecame Director of 
the Soviet-Russian D~'..vision in the Operatio;:-s Directorate. He states that the i 
Q program involved the identification of parties within the United States sending .-.nd 1 rec2iving mai 1 with perso.ris in the Soviet bloc o:Juntries and the identific.:-~ticn cf th'3 l 
persons in the Soviet bloc sending and receiving such mail. Selected items of 
mail were also opened and photographed, and then resealed al'ld forwarded. Mr .Osborn 
states that he cannot recall any specific use ma.de bv the CIA of the info:rrration so 
obtained. The primary purpose of the pro;ra.11 as he understood it was to provide 
information to the FBI. He recalls several oonferences regarding the program. 
It was his i:osition that the three personnel from the Office of Security' who 
~rked on the program were not performing any useful service for the Office of 
Security, that it was a drain on the budget of his office, and that the CIA had 
no business tarrpering with the mail in the first place. Mr. Colby, when he was 
Executive Director-COntroller of the Agen~ supp::,rtcd Mr. Osborn's oosition on the 
roatter. It wai:: opposed by Mr. Angleton of the Di:rectnrate of Operations, who 
argued prirr.arily that the information deri'IJed fran the project was vitally ncces­
~-;,1:ry ct, the FBI. Mr. Helns elected to h.x.,c the program continue. It was fin:illv 
tenni.nated bv Mr. Colby during the tirre that Mr. Schlesinger was DCI in 1973. 
'TOP SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 16 
