1. 
, -­-. ,.,,.,,....,...,., • 'Nation ~~9.rch on 
;entagon., Ap •• 10., 1971 
C o_ N F I D ~ T I A L 
APPENDIX 
STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY 
Students for a Democratic Society, commonly 
known as SDS, came into existence at a founding convention 
held during June, 1962, at Port Huron, Michigan. From an 
initial posture of "participatory democracy," Marxist-
.Leninist ideology of various shadings became predominant 
during 1968-1969 with debate centering on how best to create 
a revolutionary youth movement. SDS moved from involvement 
in the civil rights struggle to an anti-Vietnam war position 
to advocacy of a militant anti-imperialist line linking up 
the oppressed peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America 
with the black liberation movement in the United States. 
All major factions within SOS embrace Marxism-Lenism 
and identify internationally with China, Cuba and North 
Vietnam as countries leading the worldwide struggles 
against the United States. However, the Soviet Union 
was regarded as imperialist ;:•nd wi t1' the Communist Party, 
United States of America, "r, visionjst'~ in nature. 
SOS operated under a national constitution which 
called for an annual Nationa Convention (NC) and quarterly 
National Council meetings wherein programs were initiated 
and debated. Three national officers were elected annually· 
with a National Interim Committee to run the organization. 
Regional offices and college chapters elected delegates to 
the national meetings but each functioned independently on 
local matters. Its official public1tion "Fire" {formerly 
"New Left Notes") last appeared in )ecember, 1969. 
Internal factionalism of serious proportions 
developed during 1968 - 1969 and tle following three factions 
evolved as a result of a split at +he June, 1969, NC: 
Weatherman, Worker Student Alliance (WSA), and Revolutionary 
Youth Movement (RYM). The effect of the split on SOS chapters 
throughout the country was divisive. Some aligned with one 
or the other of the three major factions. Others, unable to 
identify with any faction, disassociated with SOS completely 
and changed names. 
The SOS national office in recent years was 
located at 1608 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois. ~t 
was closed in February, 1970. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
- 5 -
