"Q. Was it your intent to circumlocutiously 
or otherwise, to advise the Attorney General 
. that you were in the process of trying to kill 
Castro? 
Mr. Bissell: [U]nless I remembered the con­
versation at the time, which I don't, I don't 
have any recollection as to whether that was 
my intent or not." (Bissell, 7/22/75, p. 56). 
Bissell proceeded to speculate that a "proper" briefing might not 
have included any reference to the assassination plot. (Bissell, 7/22/75, 
p. 59). He gave ~ reasons for this speculation: (i) even if he had 
"thoroughly briefed" the Attorney General he would have chosen "circumlocutious" 
language to tell him about the activity involving Giancana. (Bissell, 7/22/75, 
pp. 53-56); and (ii) the assassination effort had been "stood down by then." 
-
(Bissell, 7/22/75, p. 59). Bissell concluded by reiterating that he had 'no 
knowledge" that the Attorney General was "specifically advised"of the. 
assassination plot against Castro (Bissell, 7/22/75, p. 62).* 
e. OJNVERSATION BE'IWEEN PRESIIENT KENNEDY AND GEORGE SMATHERS 
George Smathers, former U.S. Senator fran Florida, testifie::l that the 
subject of the possible assassination of Castro arose in a conversation between 
Smathers and President Kennedy on the White House lawn in 1961. 'id( Smathers 
* If the FBI quotation of Edwards is to be accorded significant weight, then 
it is important to note that another section of it contradicts Bissell's assunp­
tion that Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy had been circunlocutiously advised 
by Dulles of the assassination plot. Edwards told the FBI that "Allen I:Ulles was 
canpletely unaware of Edwards' contact with Maheu" in connection with Cuban opera-
• tions. • 
Bissell's explanation for Edwards' statement was that Edwards was being "pro­
tective" of the OCI. (Bissell, 7/17/75, p. 20). But this testim:my IIlllSt be 
reconciled with Bissell' s previous testim:my that Dulles knew of the operation and 
probably would have told the President about it. 
'id( Smathers' testim:my about this conversation referred to the transcript of 
an Oral History interview, corufu.cted on March 31, 1964, in which his testim:my was 
based gives an indication that the conversation transpired in 1961, before the 
Bay of Pigs invasion in mid-April. • - •• 
It appears frcm the White House logs of Presidential meetings that there were 
only two occasions in 1961 when Senator Smathers met with the President alone for 
as nruch as twenty minutes. Both of those meetings took place in March. (Supra, 
p. ) . 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 134 
