TOP SECRET - 3 -
b. 
employees are paid additional compensation to act as infomers 
and to report to the Office of Security on any potential security 
problems which they observe among their fellow employees at 
the Agency. 
A few outside employees, i.e., non-employees of the Agency, are 
also retained for the same purpose. This would io.c lude employees 
of the telephone company and construction workers engaged in the 
construction of Agency buildings. In all instances, however, the 
purpose is to maintain security among CIA employees and those 
working for CIA contractors. 
Outside the Agency 
In 1967 and 1968 the Office of Security arranged for Anderson Security 
Associates to have its employees attend meetings and other functions 
of various organizations thought to represent potential threats to CIA 
personnel or installations and to report on such threats. A list of 
organizations to be checked for indications of-such threats was pro­
vided to Anderson Security Associates. which in turn provided regular 
reports to the Office of Security on the activities of the organization 
monitored. 
There was also coordination between the Office of Security and local 
police departments to cover the same activity. An effort was made 
to determine the size of anticipated demonstrations and to anticipate 
what security forces would be necessary to cope with them. 
In 1967 and 1968 the Office of Security directed the field offices to 
solicit or report information on anti-war and dissident elements. 
The CIA was concerned a.bout the safety of its personnel, such as 
recruiters on college campus es, and its offices around the country. 
The field offices were directed at about that time to establish a. 
clipping service on campus and other newspapers to report on organi­
zations and individuals who might represent threats to CLA. per::::onnel 
or offices. 
As a result of the information fed into the Office of Security relating 
to organizations and individuals who may represent such threats. a 
substantial number of files were accumulated on individuals an<l or -
ganizations. 
TOP SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 4 
! 
f. 
