107M-N StCTION 10. SECURITY INFORMANTS AND co~rI.TIAL SOURCES. 
( 2. Submit quarterly letter (FD-45lb) to Bureau by secure teletype system 
[ (:!HTEL). O.ua;r-~~erly le'tter should include the following: • ( 
[ a. Name, location and number of subversive groups including identities 
( of groups on colle·ge campuses, exclusive of those in bla.ck extremist, 
[ white hate or espionage matters. 
[ b. Symbol m.,mbers of member informants providing coverage who are members 
[ of organizations. If no member informant, attach addendum and explain 
( why you do not have member informants. Indicate specific action being 
[ taken to develop member informants and date such coverage is an.tici-
[ pated for each group. 
[ c. Identities of individuals or groups who have participated in or are 
[ active in planning subversive acts of violence, exclus_ive o·:f those 
[ in black extremist, white hate or espionage matters. 
[ d. Symbol numbers of informants and sources providing coverage of 
( individuals or groups shown in Column C. If no member i'nfor .. mant, 
[ attach addendum and explain why you do not have member .i.:qformants. 
[ Indicate specific action being taken to develop member informants 
[ and date such coverage is anticipated for each group.] 
N. SIGHING OF LOYALTY OATHS, AFFIDAVITS, AND STATEMENTS 
1 . .Make every effort to guide informants away from \situations requiring them 
to sign or fill .out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep contacting .Agent fully advised of 
any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a form. Advise 
Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
3. Bureau will consider as last resort advising another agency of informant's 
relationship with Bureau, together with pertinent facts concerning infor­
mant's activity; however, such situations must be kept to mi-nimum in view 
of obvious dangers to informant. 
4. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau advised as 
promptly as possible, together with appropria.te re commendation for pro­
posed action. 
5. In no instance should you ~ermit informant to sign loyalty oath in negative. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1717 
18 
3-13-72 
