. . • 
NW 
' ,.····· 
M. A. Jones to Bishop . 
. RE: LUNCHEON WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL 
·. responsibility in the investigation of violations of this statute~ In· this 
instance, Customs Service, Internal Revenue Service, and the local 
Niagara Falls, New York, Police Department also have investigative 
responsibilities. . • 
• ' 
· Pertinent details concerning this matter were brought to 
the attention of the Attorney General by our letter dated September 5, 1967, 
. with the request that necessary instructions be issued to the "task force" 
personnel that matters within FBI jurisdiction be immediately reported to 
• our Buffalo Off ice. 
CRl1\1INAL INVESTIGATIONS - CONVICTIONS: 
At the end of July, 19 67, we had recorded 189 fewer con­
victions than were recorded during the first month of the prior fiscal year. 
This represents a decrease of 22%, which is primarily the result of t:wo 
factors: (1) shortages of judges and prosecutors which result in over-
·.crowded court conditions and (2) -the policy enunciated by the Criminal _ 
Division of the Department to reduce p·rosecutions in Federal court relating 
to juvenile offenders. · 
. . 
In this connection, our potential for increasing conviction 
• . statistics was decimated as a result of a letter sent during July, 1966, by 
Assistant Attorney General Vinson instructing all U. S. Attorneys to give 
primary consideration to the diversion of subjects under 21 years of age to 
local authorities. These instructions are being followed by a majority of. 
U. S. Attorneys and have hurt us -principally in Interstate Transportation of 
Stolen Motor Vehicle violations where experience has shown that approximately 
65% of all violators are under 21 years of age. At the end of July, 1967, we 
recorded 109 less convictions in this category as compared to the first 1nonth 
in the previous fiscal year. 
We have for ·sometime. been followin~ the practice of advising 
the Attorney General· \Vhenever shortages of Federal judges, U. S. Attorneys · 
or their assistants exis~ For. example, we recently sent the following letters 
to the Attorney General b~ing to his attention shortages of judges or U. S. . • 
Attorneys in the indicated areas: 
9-1-67, Southern District of Georgia; 
• 8-16-67, Eastern pistrict of Michigan; 
8-7-67, District of Kansas; 
8-3-67, District of New Jersey; 
• 8-2-67, Southern and Northern Districts of Mississippi; 
7-31-67, Western District of New York. 
(CONTINUED - OVER) _ 
- 6 - • I f . 
'v ,U' 
f 
·, 
. '. 
i. 
'· ,. 
• 
f 
i 
r. 
~ . i 
