13-00000. 
• APR 15 '97 05=00PM USGOVERNMENT P.7/14 
·· ~-- SECRET 
Subject: CIA Employees 
not diminished. Similar to sources, many former employees 
still do not want their past affiliation with CIA revealed. 
Perhaps their current friends, family, or employers are not 
aware of this past affiliation; and revelation of that fact 
could negatively affect personal and professional 
relationships. Some former employees still live overseas 
where a revelation of CIA affiliation poses risks to their 
personal safety. Other former employees travel overseas on 
business, where a revelation of a past CIA affiliation can 
threaten their business interests and personal safety. 
q!:le example of an employee in this category is 1-,R'.ob-ert.", 
1tp..]J;_gn~ whose ~rune apparently appears only once in the 
Collection. .J!,Ui):bri retired under Citepg.tment_df S.tat.e7 cover; 
he currently has a consultant business and frequently 
travels to[Cnin~ Release of his name would jeopardize not 
only his business but perhaps even his safety. A_s.lmilar 
example is Cwalt_er McCabe.; who also retired under [Stao/ : 
cover. He is now working in~~ and several East 
(EuroEea~ countries for a private firm. He does not want his 
name published, because it could be damaging to his current 
employer and his professional status. 
17. (8) . Even if a former employee agrees to the 
revelation of his name in the JFK Collection, this might not 
be possible for other reasons. In some cases, officially 
acknowledging a covert employee could threaten ongoing 
operations on which that employee worked. Foreign nationals 
recruited by the employee and still providing information to 
the US Government would be at risk of exposure. Public 
acknowledgment could reveal the location of CIA stations 
where the employee worked throughout his career, including 
some not released by the Review Board. Any individuals who 
had substantial contact with a former employee overseas and 
may have believed they were legitimately providing 
infonnation to a us corporate representative would be upset 
to learn they were, in fact, aiding the US Government. 
18. (U) Finally, the identification of case officers 
by their own service would have a chilling effect on 
prospective assets. Prospective assets would be unlikely to 
enter into a clandestine relationship with American 
intelligence if they believe that CIA does not protect even 
its own staff employees from public disclosure. 
IV. J:'l:ropgaa.l 
19. (U) In light of the foregoing, CIA believes it is 
important to work toward a general policy of protecting CIA 
employees identified in the JFK Collection, with exceptions 
made for those individuals who are important to the story of 
the assassination. The Agency proposes that in most cases a 
6 
SECRET 
