13-00000 
.. 
page 2 
been concerned with the declassification of historically valuable 
documents. As a result, I am very familiar with FOIA and .,..the 
Executive Orders that control declassification. -·.,. 
2. What do you consider to be your primary responsibilities and 
priori ties as an ARRB member? _ • 
The primary responsibility of the ARRB is to ensure the reviett 
and facilitate the public disclosure of records relating to the· 
assassination of -President Kennedy. It is important to • note that it 
is not the responsibility of the Board or its members to reach ~ny 
conclusions about the participants or events of the assassination. 
Instead, the Board must ensure that the agencies comply with the 
law . and either open or present to the Board ALL d~ents 
pertaining to the assassination. The obligation of._ each· m~e~ i.;s 
to carefully study the documents that have· not yet··been disclosed 
to weigh the need for public disclosure against the protection of 
national security. A major· priority of the Board should be the 
preservation of its own integrity in o_rder to ens.ure the 
restoration of government credibility regarding the assas_sination. 
3. How do you envision your relationship and responsibilities--as 
an ARRB member --- to (a) the President,. ·(b) the Congress, and (c) 
other executive branch agencies? 
a and b. My responsibility to the President and Congress is to 
fulfill the tru~t and perform the tasks mandated by the ~egislation­
to • the best of my ability. I would be willing to confer with 
members of the White House staff and the congress on the progress 
of the Board if it is necessary to do so to preserve the integrity 
of the process. • . • 
c. The relationship with"other ex~cutive bJ::anch agencies may 
prove more problematical. To restore public confidence, -the Board 
must be· guaranteed c:omplete compliance· with. the law by:. all the 
agencies with assassination-related records. I would try to ensure 
that agencies have.indeed_searched for all relevant records, and 
have either provided public· access to them or prepared them for 
action by the Board. 
4. How-do you view the job of ARRB Executive Director? What role do 
you anticipate playing in the selection of ARRB Executive Director 
and staff? 
As described in.the statute, the Executive Director should be 
responsibile • for all administrative duties. These will involve 
serving as a liaison to the agencies, describing the universe of 
records, organizing· hearings (if necessary), etc. The Executive 
Director will not ·be responsible for policy and should not be 
responsible for determining which documents can be opened to the 
public. 
I would anticipate that every Board meinber would actively seek 
candidates for the positioh of Executive Director. However, since 
five individuals cannot effectively run a Board, the elected Chair 
