14-00000 
consistent standards were being used for the entire 
Y collection. 
Each document in the collection was read by an 
Historical Review Program (HRP) Reviewer -- in every case a 
retired officer with at least two decades of Agency 
experience -- who examined every word in the document with 
an eye toward releasing documents unless such release could 
be expected to cause damage to: 
• Human intelligence assets or their families; 
• Intelligence methodology clearly requiring continued 
prot_ection; 
• Intelligence operations or activities warranting 
continued protection, including relationships with 
foreign governments. 
The reviewed documents were then passed to teams of 
officers from the components that generated the documents 
(in most cases the Directorate of Operations), who were 
responsible for determining current sensitivity. The senior 
HRP reviewers validated the component groups' actions prior 
to forwarding the materials to the Board. 
Names of CIA employees who served all or most of their 
careers under cover posed particular problems and, while 
many names have been redacted, with Board concurrence for 
release at a later date, the current sensitivity, or lack 
thereof, of retired individuals' employment by CIA had to be 
checked in each case. Names of key players in the post­
assassination scenario, as stipulated by the Board, were 
released as true names or with temporary and traceable 
substitute names. Identification by the Board of those who 
were considered key players was a complicated and time­
consuming task. Significant review and analysis went.into 
the decision to release true names of many Cubans connected 
with the Bay of Pigs. 
Material from the Rockefeller Commission and Church 
Committee investigations, presidential libraries and PFIAB 
files which addressed the entire scope of CIA activities 
raised issues with respect to relevance to the JFK 
assassination. For example, Project MONGOOSE, a clandestine 
portion of the publicly acknowledged U.S. anti-Castro 
policy, was released. 
Another major issue was consistency in reviewing 
duplicate copies of documents. In one case 47 copies of a 
cable were found by different reviewers in separate files 
