87D 
(4) 
Key 
(1} 
{2) 
clasalfied contracts with the key facility.] Copies of feportc 
for the Marine ·corps should be disseminated locally to ONI. 
Dissemination to the .Atomia :E;n-,:.,rgy Coinmisr;ion (AEC), Defense 
.Atomic Support Agency (DAS.A) (i'orme:rly .ArmeiJ. 1''crces Spooh.l 
Wea.pons Project), thri Re sc.?.rch r,nd De-vclopment Boa.rd (RD3), 
and th£ H:n·:i.timc Administra t:i.on (11A) \-:ill be made at the 
Bureau, ~nd not in the field. 
Statuci or case:, 
Aft~r all active investigation conducted, place in a clpsed 
status, r'orty-five days before report due, m;,.ke case ·p,,ncling 
active and check with armed services representative at the 
key facility, or with other reli~.ble r.ources, to dcte:rm:inc 
whether subject has access to classified or restricted • • 
material. 
f~gure and top functionary ~rogram 
•• General 
Purpose of key f:i.gure and top functionary ~rogram is to select 
for special attention those individuals in a subversiv~ 
movement who 2.re of outsta.n<Iing· importance to the effectiveness 
of the mo7ement. 
Key figure and top i'anctionary program is described be].ow as 
pertaining to the Communist Party, USA. However, it also· 
applies to important individ~als active in or on beµalf of 
.other basic revolu~ionary groups. 
Key figures 
(a) Definition 
A key figure is an indtvidual,· either a member or non­
member of the Communist Party or other ba.sic re-;-oJ.utionary 
organization, who, by reason of his official position in 
the organizatio!). or his connections vd.th the comnrn.nist 
'movement and his activities on its bi~alf, is con~idered 
of sufficient importance and potential dangerousness 
'from an internr-.1 security standpoint to require immediate 
apprehension or detention in the event of an eme~aenoy~ 
Individuals coming within the following categories shall 
be considered within the definition of a key figure: 
I. NationAl,. dictrict, and state officers and the principal 
officers of the local clubs of the· Communist. Party 
II. The principal organizers of the Communist Party 
·III. Those communists who .a.re executive officers or out­
standing figures in established communist front or 
communist-controlled organizations, foreign language 
groups, and Negro orga~izations infiltrated by 
communists 
IV. Individuals extensively- ex1ga.ged in communist 
infiltration of the labor movement, including 
principal officers of labor org2.nizations who 
are ·members of or closely affiliated with the 
Communist Party, In ~ 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 548 66 
r 
., . 
j 
~ 
