13-00000 
0~1/23167 WED 15:54 Fil 202 724. U4~¥ 
-~~: -~. -~ ~ - -- -- -~--
-3-
CIA Sources 
The Review Boardestabllshed guidelines,durfnglts December 1996 meeting, for . 
handling CIA source issues arid applied those guidelines ·atthe January 1997 meeting. 
These guidelines directed the protection of names and Identifying lnfonnatlon of CIA • 
sources in cases where the identity of the source Is of low public Interest or Is peripheral 
to the JFK assassination~ The Board's decision was based on two factors: the ·concem 
that since CIA. sources generally live outside the .United-States, they could risk harm If 
their Identities were revealed. Moreover, many ofthe sources referenced In CIA-
records appear Infrequently and are of relatively low public interest. Therefore, In 
records where the Identity of the source Is of Importance lor understanding the 
assassination, the CIA wlll be required to provide additional evidence to suppon the 
protection of the source's Identity.' In cases where the identify of the source Is • 
peripheral to the assassination story, the information will be postponed until 2017. 
FBI National Security Assets 
FBI national security assets should be treated in the same manner as CIA-sources. 
FBI Informants 
Informant issues represent the largest category of postponements In the FBl's 
Segregated Collection, as they do In the acoren FBI assassination. files, They also 
provide the greatest opportunity for streamlining the review process. Currently, there 
are ten memb_ers of the Bureau's JFK Task Force who are responsible for researching 
Individual lnfonnants in response to evfdence requests from the Review Board.' They 
retrieve and review the Informants' files and attempt, through DMV, Social Security, and 
other database. searches, to determine If the Informant is alive. Under current Review 
Board standards for 
11
core" files, this work is necessary to provide evidence to support 
redacting the lnfonnant's name, regardless of whether the informant provided 
Information. Removing the requirement of proving whether lnfom,ants are alive In the 
Segregated Collections would free up significant resources that could be deployed to 
reviewing unprocessed HSCA subject files. • 
The new approach to HSCA subjects Is to protect lnfonnant-ldentifylng infonnatlon, 
3An example would be the case of John Scelso (pseud.). The Board found that 
his identity is relevant to the assassination story and: CIA offered evidence -of a 
continuing need to protect th_e identity.·_ In .this case, ascelso" documents would 
. continue to be scheduled for ntlease In five years. • 
4Slx work full-time on informant evidence, four devote about half their time to • 
Informant evidence. • • • • 
