Resume - Joan Talbert Thornell Page Two.,· 
1\ 1/72 -
· .. 10/72 
2/72 
4/72 
9/71 -
1/72 
1/71 -
6/71 
3/70 -
12/70 
1/69 -
3/70 
• 1/68' -
11/68 
4/67 -
12/67 
•. t: 
Staff Director 
The National Black Political Convention, Inc. 
Administrative follow-up to the Gary Convention; publi­
cation of "The National Black Political Agenda" .. 
Fellow, The Joint Center for Political Studies, serving as 
Staff Coordinator, Platform Committee of The National 
Black Political Convention, Gary, Indiana. Platform 
Comi--nitee Chairman, Hon. Walter E. Fauntroy (Del,. D.C.) 
Staff Director 
Hon. D'Army Bailey and Hon. Ira Simmons 
City Council, Berkeley California 
Coordinating staff of researchers and clerical workers; 
·supervision of three staff members and fifty·volunteers. 
Director, District Office of 
. Hon. Willie L. Brown~ Jr. 
• State Assemblyman and Chairman, ·ways and Means Committee ,, , .. 
San Francisco, California 
Liaison with Sacremento office; administration of district 
office with four employees and over 100 volunteers. 
Consultant, Self-employed. New York City 
Speech writing, editing and research; program planning, 
development and evaluation. 
Manager for Cecil P. Taylor,.pianist and composer. 
New York Urban Coalition 
2. Special Assistant to the Executive Vice President for 
Education and Manpower, Lincoln 0. Lynch 
Staff supervision (8 employees), research, speech 
writing and publication design 
1. Assistant to the Executive Director, Coalition JOBS, 
William Kaufmann. Conference coordination and 
staff supervision (52 employees) . 
Volunteer Cormnunity. Work 
New Haven, Connecticut 
Chairman, Black Women of· Greater New Haven 
Board of Directors, Black Coalition of New Haven 
Executive Committee, Board of Directors, Community Housing, 
' Inc., non-profit housing development corporation 
Board of Directors, Yale Upward Bound 
Board of Directors, Perspectives -- program for high 
school students • 
Director, Harvard-Yale-Columbia Intensive Summer Studies· 
Program; New Haven 1 Connecticut . . 
Program purpose: to recruit, select, train and place student~ 
from.predominantly Black southern colleges in the graduate 
programs of the three cooperating universities and other 
graduate schools. Staff of four; faculty of fifty; 150 
students. 
Page 32 
