SECRET 
sources, that they are telling the guerrilla warfare 
students and their leaders to obtain their own weap­
ons at home. 
One of our agents who was in the original group 
of Brazilian trainees said he was trained exclusively 
in the use and maintenance of the Garand M-1 rifle 
and M-3, Browning and Hotchkiss machineguns. His 
group was told that these were the weapons Brazilian 
guerrillas would be able to buy, steal, or capture 
from the security forces at home. Similarly, an Ar­
gentine tra~nee, an agent, said their instructors 
told them Cuba would not be sending weapons because 
there was a plentiful source of supply for any de­
termined guerrilla movement in its own homeland. 
Leaders of militant groups in Venezuela, Brazil, and 
·Peru who have gone to Cuba seeking assistance have 
been told by the Cuban leaders that Cuba is willing 
to furnish funds, training, and technical assistance. 
Reference to weapons is pointedly omitted. This is 
reported to us by our agents in these same groups. 
We ~ave recently agail checked with all of our 
stations in Latin America to review what evidence we 
have of military shipments/from Cuba. In Peru, radio 
transmitters were admittedly brought in from Cuba. 
(In Venezuela so much radib equipment was stolen 
last fall that this was un~ecessaryl) In 1962, Cuba 
furnished cash to buy weapbns in Mexico to be smug­
gled into Guatemala. In P~ru, the guerrilla trainees 
who were rounded ·up in the/Huampani-Satipo incident 
last March had been issued/kits containing a Czech 
rifle with a pistol grip, apparently of bloc origin. 
Otherwise, however, in casb after case guerrilla 
hardware turned out to havb been bought or stolen 
locally, or smuggled in frbm the adjoining country. 
We c:JoLnot have a sin_gle ca.~e where we are certa:i.n 
of the Cuban origin of cap
1
tured arms. 
I 
This is not to say that we are positive weapons 
have not been sent from Cuba. Latin America has a 
long tradition of smuggli~g, a long coasUine, in­
numerable isolated landing fields and drop zones, 
.and inadequate security f~rces to control all such 
channels. A Venezuelan Communist leader has been 
telling guerrilla leaders that Cuba will soon send 
NW 50955 Docld: 32424 709 Page 14. 
I 
-8-
! 
I 
! 
SECRET 
' 
