- 6 -
M::Cord Letters (a:intinued) 
Mr. Helms directed that the letter should be retained in the file, but that 
nothing further should l:e done al:out it and. that h-= would taJ.::.e care of it. 
Thereafter a series of letters were recei \'2d from Vi.c. MO:ord by Pa.ul G3.ynor, 
then the Chief of Sec1rity P.2.search Staff within the Office of Security. 
These letters were received bv Mr. G:lynor at his horre. Each letter was 
promptl v brought to the attention of t•'ir. Helrr.s. The thrust of th'2SP letters 
was that the Camu.ttee to Re-elect the Presid2nt and high officialswithin 
the Nixon Ac..'"11.inistration were planning to blame the CIA for the Watergate 
break-in. Mr. Helrrs directed that thes2 letters not be referred tn the 
Justice Departrrent and that-he v.0uld take care of them. Mr. Osborn recalls 
being present when the matter was discussed with the General Counsel of the 
CIA, Mr. Houston, who advised. that the CLJ\ was not obligated to reveal these letters to the Justice Departrrent. 
At a much later date, Mr. Ostorn gave full testirrony with resoect to these 
Mc.Cord letters and the actions regarding the.111 to the Nedzi Subcorrmi ttee of 
House Appropriations Corrrnittee and to the rounterpart Senate Subcomnittee. 
2. The Pe.i"1!lington Matter: For many vears a man no.rred Lee Pennington, a forrrer 
FBI agent, has been retained bv the CIA as a a:mfidential inform.ant. His 
conpensation from the CIA has been $250 per rronth. Mr. Osborn stated that he 
has no idea what kind of info:i:rratia...,. h-:l.S ever l:een SllPi,)lied to the Agency by 
Mr. Pennington in e'),:change for th.2 c:J!TpenSation paid him. 
In Auqust 1972 Mr. Osb:Jrn was on vacation during the ti.Ire his deputy, E:r:mal 
Geiss, was in ch.3.rge of the Office of Security. (The Office of Security had 
l::een designated by the CCI as the liaiso:1 wit.'1 all other governmental agG..11cies 
and departrrents re~ating to \•laterqate matters. ) 
While Mr. Osborn was on vacation an FBI agent narred Arnold Parham contacted 
the Office of Security and requested information on a man sirrplv nancl 
"Pennington". The request was directed to Steve Kuhn of the Office of 
Security. M.r. Kuhn's ::5.eputy, Hollis Whitaker, took the request of agent 
Pnrhillll to Ennal Geiss and asked whether the FBI should l::e given the names 
of both Penningtons or just one of them. Mr. Geiss instructed Whitaker that 
Parh.'.ll11 should be supplied only with.the narre of Cecil Pennington, a retired 
employee of the CIA, 'Who was not related in any wav to Lee Pennington. Gei~s 
instructed Whitaker that Lee Pennington's narre should not be giVen to Parham. 
Mr. Geiss ¼Dllld have kno.-m that Jarres ~·..ceoro while he \-Ja.S employed. in the 
Office of Security had acted as the case officer for Lee Permington, that 
MO:ord was involved with the Watergate break-in, and. that the FBI ,•.:as really 
interested in Lee Pennington. 
Mr. Osborn states that all of the a!)'.)\.~ infm:rration carre to ·his attention in 
February 1974 and that he had r.o kno..,;lecl;2 of it until th.,1t tirre. 
'TOP SIX:RET 
NW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 12, 
