13-00000 
.. 
,TOP SEBftET --1::SPIGIAL • flANDLIND N8Ftll 
7. H1Jaold.ng attempts against civil air and surface oratt 
should appear to continue as. harassing measures condoned by the 
government ot CUba. OoncUJ."1'8ntly, genuine detections ot CUban 
civil and militaey air and surface craft should.be encouraged. 
8. It 1s possible to create an incident whioh will demonstrate 
conv1ncillgly that a Cuban aircraft has ·attacked and shot down 
a. chartered civil airliner enroute from the tJnited States to 
Jamaica, Guatemala, Panama or Venezuela. The destination would 
be chosen only to cause the flight plan route to c,ross Cuba. 
The passengers coUld be a·group ot college students ott on a 
holiday or any groupillg ot·persons with. a common interest to 
support chartering a non-schedUled flight. 
a. An aircraft at Eglin AFB would be painted and 
numbered as an exact duplicate tor a civil registered 
airoraf't belonging to a CIA proprietary orgardzat~on 1n the 
Miami area. · At a designated time the duplicate would be 
substituted tor the actual civil aircraft and woUld be 
loaded with the selected passengers, all boarded under 
oaretUlly prepared aliases. The actual registered 
aircraft would be converted to a drone. 
b. 'l'ake orr times ot the drone e.12,oraft and the actual 
aircraft w.t.ll be scheduled to allow a rend~zvous south ot 
Florida. From the relldezvous point the passenger-oaft71ng 
aircraft will descend to m1n1mum altitude and go directly 
into an aUX1.liaey field at Eglin AFB where arrangements will 
have been made to evacuate the passengers-and return the 
aircraft to its original status. The drone airoraft 
meanwhile will contimle to tl7 the f'lled flight plan. When 
over CUba the drone .will being transmitting on :the inter­
national_distress frequency a "MAY DAY" message stating he 
is under attack by CUban MIO airoratt. The transmission 
will be interrupted-by destrucUon ot the aircraft which will 
be triggered by';radio signal .. 'l'his will allow ICAO radio 
. 6 .,ae; ~-~ .,.;.;t-t, ..... : 
~-~ :!.,.._.i .• .. _··: .\ 
9:-iEMQkrrlt 1==t1:SPtH!£Y-IIA-lm=L -11:tHAIIIIlff~~-IN~BF~BRHI 
