'IOP SEG"lET - 3 -
I-e kncws of no case in which the CIA hcJ.S made a sweep of anv other resid2.nees. 
It d:::i-2s rrake sweeps of private firms who have CIP. 00!1tracts, but always with 
the kno✓1ledg2 and oonsent of the firm. 
He states that his Office has never used equipITB7t for OOlIDter-audio sweeps for 
"positiv"'::! intelligence." 
'I'le sweeps oonducted incluc:ed physical inspection, checking all telephones for taps, 
checkino desks, walls, ceilings and flOJrs for listening devices or radio 
receivers, and may involve such sophistiC3.ted rreasures as counter-laser rreasures 
and the use of a D::dge rrobile horre equipped with sophisticated equiarent capable 
of picking up a radio transmission from n°arby _premise~. 
Taping SysteiTS in Certain CIA Offices , 
.Mr. Osborn stat...od that Mr. Helrrs had authorized for· use in his office, 
in the office of the D2puty Director of Central Intelli9en02, in the office of 
the Executive Director-controller, in the office of the D'2puty Director for 
Support (now Adrriinistration), in the office of the Director of Security, and 
in the offi02 of the Deputy Dh"'2ctor of Security a system of telephone taps and 
secret microphones ',\hlch made it p:::issible to reoord oovertly any telephone mn­
versation or offi02 mnference taJrJ.ng plac2 in those offices. The taping system 
could be activated with respect to telepho:1es by depressing a button on the tele­
phone in the of fire or on the telephone at the desk of t.1-ie secretary in the 
adjacent office. The taping system to record office conversations "WOuld be acti­
vated by depressing a button under the carpet in the vicinity of the desk of the 
J?2rson occupying that office. All CIA of fici:J.ls in whose of fires such equi.prn2nt 
was installed were fully aware of its presence and its capability of being acti­
vated only by them. 
The re.:nrded conversations from all of tJ1ese offices, exeept those in the Office 
of Security, were rerorded in a central ban;: of reoorders located in the base­
rrent of the building. 'Ihose emanating from the Office of the Director of Security 
or D2puty Director of Security were reoorded on bvin recorders located down the 
hall from those of fices. 
All rerorded telephone and office conversations were transcribed. In sare in­
stanres the tapes were retained, and in sorre instanees they were erased. It is 
not kna.-m whether the Agency retains any copi~s of the typed transcripts. From 
tirre to t.irre, particularly as an official has departed from the CIA, he has 
m.dered ta}?2S erased and transcripts d2st..roved. 
Mr. Osborn repo:tt.s that rvi.r. Cblby directed the renoval of the reoorcling and tele­
phon2 tc1ping i:::q,..u.prrent from his off ice \,he:1 t~~ b:x-:a:,-c Executive Director­
Controller of the Agency and again when h2 be::::arre Dir12ctor of Central Intelligence. 
Mr. Bannerman also had the equi.prrent tal~en out of his office when he becarre D2puty 
Director for Su;?r-ort (l\dministra tion). Appare..,Uy all other officials in whose 
offices such ecruiprrent was installed used it from tirre to ti.rre. 
Positive Uses of Counter-Audio F4Uii::rrent 
Mr. Osoom stated that he wishes to cla.ri fy h.is previous testimony that counter­
audio hud not been used in a positive ~cnse. M,ut he m2unt was that it rod rot 
'IDP SO:~ 
NW 50955 Docid:32203846 Page 9 
r 
I 
