13-00000 
I • 
SECRETI . _____ .., ...... J 
3. The following items were heretofore classified SECRET 
because they desuibed sources and methods in identifying a 
support base loc_ated in -.he United States, but a-re now con­
sidered to have beenpplaced in the public domain. 
Items 124., 126, and 12 7 on pages 129 • and 130 -:--
INTBRMOUNTAIN AVIATION, INC. tntermountain Aviation, 
Inc. is named as an Agency proprietary in Book I of 
the Senate Select Committee Final_Report, pp. 208·9, 
and in' -.the Re.port of the Rockefeller Commission on 
CIA Activities Within the United States, pg. 218. 
4. The follt,wing items· fall into the questionable a:rea 
as to whether .they have been placed in the public domain by 
authorized Govet'nment officials: 
j 
a. Item 49, page 71a -- ROME DAILY AMERICAN. 
Classified SECRET because it describes int·elligence 
sources and methods as· related to several newspaper· 
publications. However, CCS files contain a newsclip 
from the September and October 1974 edition of the 
·Columbia Journali$mR~vlew which states, "Landon K. 
Thorne, Jr. , the cIA' s Bross, and a lawyer for CIA, 
Benjamin Shute, then a partner-in the prestigious 
Wall Street law firm of Cravath, Swaine,.· and Moore, 
now acknowledge that the fourth partner .[ in the 
purchase of the ~ome Dailf American in 1956) was the 
·CIA. [Bross l recently ca led the arrangement 'atypical' 
of what the Agency was doing, 'a bad example'." It is 
questionable whether the remark!& made by Mr. Bross, who 
retired from the Agency in 1971, and Mr. Shute, who 
left the Agency long before that, can be considered a.s 
cgsnconstituting official Agency disclosure of this 
information. 
b. Item S4, page 80 and item 236, page 262 ·- FORUM 
WORLD PEATURBS. Classified SECRET because they describe 
intelligence sources and methods and identification of 
operations based in England. ~rum World Pe.atures was _ 
referred to - - but not by name .. .. in Book ? of' die Senate 
Select Committee Final Report, page 199, as follows: 
"Another example of the damages of (propaganda} ·""fallout' 
involved two proprietary news services that the CIA main­
tained in Europe .... the larger of the two was su blcribed 
to by over 30 U.S. newspapers. In an effort to reduce the 
problem of fallout, the CIA made a senior official at the 
major dailies aware that the CIA controlled these two 
-4-
gQBE~T
1 
