13-00000 
has~ as a result of this movie, become apparently an expert on 
this subject? 
GATES: Mr. Chairman, I would characterize him· as a 
self-styled expert on this subject. I am no expert at all. I 
think I have moved very far in the direction of releasing these 
documents, as you indicated at the outset of the hearing. I • 
---tll-i-nk that the--age.n-ey-has in many-ways set a standard in-t--=e-=r=m=s:----------
of its willingness to release these documents, and our 
determination to do so whether or not there is legislation. 
Frankly, I find that the allegations contained in 
the--that I have been told about in the movie; I have not seen 
it--are offensive to the agency, ana··to· the American government, 
and to a number of people who were in office at that time from 
. the President of the United states on down, President Johnson on 
down. 
I-t- is not entirely clear to me what particular purpose 
would be served by a meeting between myself and Mr. stone. 
~ ----- . 
REP. CONYERS: Can you tell me about the sympathy and 
understanding that you may have for the American people's 
confusion and differences of view about whether Lee Harvey 
Oswald was alone the sole assassin of the president? 
GATES: Well, my view, and it's a very personal view, 
Mr. Chairman, is that--and I have never made a study of the 
assassination; I have not read the many books that have been 
written about it_--but my personal view is that the enormity of 
the event and the sense of tragedy that the American people· 
felt, and still feel, over that event, is so great that the idea 
of a single individual, a single irrational individual, 
committing an act of such enormous historical consequence is __ ----· ------------ · ··• - •• 
enormously--d-1-f-f-icult to-..;.for· them to accept· at face value. 
And in many respects, it is similar to the continuing 
controversy over the assassination of President Lincoln, as more 
than 100 years later we still read books about conspiracies and 
so on in that respect. 
And by the same token, and with ftll ~ue respect to his 
memory, there doesn't seem to any similar kind of controversy 
about the assassination of President McKinley. 
And so I think it is the inability of a lot of people 
to accept such an irrational act with such enormous consequences 
that has contributed to this. And I think that the--one of the 
concerns that grows out of this film is not that people accept 
it at face value but rather than particularly young people who 
may not read much history and may not read the reviews and may 
not read what historians have to say that is critical about the 
movie, but come out of it with the sense that there is some fire 
in all that smoke; that he may not have it right, but there must 
have been some sort of conspiracy. 
And I've had, as I indicated to you the other day, I 
had a conversation about this with a distinguished United States 
Sena~~~-~ho had sent some of his smartest young staff out to see 
the•~, and they came back and the reaction was not that they 
accepted what the movie said, but their concern that their 
government had in some way been involved. And frankly it was 
that more than anything else that prompted me to decide that it 
was imperative to get these documents out and try to dispel the 
