13-00000 
, 
,- I 
,..,. 
• 
{ t! Id '.I u I J '- I ' i / I U 
I -
·, 
l. U/..)d _ I 0 
Sergy j C zornonoh t8 /2'1' Tl '..f IY /f /J;1 B /9 J' f/1 r> /\·(' 
.1106 - 11th Street 
Sacramento, California 95814 
To Russian Ambassador 
Embassy of U.s.s.R. 
1125 - 16th Street 
Washington, D. c. · ·\ 
Dear Sir: 
This ie retyped letter from hand written 
Mr. Wasilev Consul gave me order to transmit this information to U. s. Government, 
on August 9, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria. -·1-ir. Wasilev, Consul of Embassy of u.s.s.R., 
gave me this information about MT. Lee llarvey Oswald on August 14, 1963. Mrs. 
Bcsera Asenova, girl friend of Russian Consul came to my room and repeated that 
Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald is assassin. He will kill President Kennedy. 
On August 15, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria, at the airport in embassy car, I told to 
Mr. Blackshire, American Vice Consul, that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald is assissin. 
He has a weapon or has ordered one. Mr. Blackshire said it seems like he will 
kill someone. I said that Mr. Lee H. Oswald is preparing to kill President 
of the United States, John F. Kennedy. Mr. Blackshire said where will it happen. 
I said they (right wing) will invite President, criticize him in the newspaper, 
then kill him. Mr. Blackshire told me he will give the telegram to Department 
of State and he gave me the addrees where to report~ 
At 9 a.m. on August 19, 1963 in Washington, D. C., I went to see (Mr. Kippingan) 
Director of Special Counselor Service Department of State at 1901 Pennsylvania 
Avenue-11th floor. I told the Director that I have information about President 
Kennedy. The Director said do not mention name of President Kennedy, only 
respond to the questions. •The Director said tell us what will hlppen to Mr. 
Lee Harvey Oswald then. I said Mr. Lee H. Oswald will be killed after kill 
Kennedy. I said I will take the truth drug to tell the truth. Director tell 
us who else get killed in this country. I said as I heard, that Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. will be killed. Who will kill Dr. King, Jr. Negro leader? 
l said a man who is in prison at this time. (Mr. James Earl Ray was in prison 
at that time.) Director asked where assassination will happen. I said in Dallas, 
Texas. Director said if saneone gave this information here I would expel the 
man. Director did call on F.B.I. agents after F.B.I. use anesthesia gas to 
freeze me to drub me to keep amnesia. 
l told Director Department of State that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald have a weapon. 
Go see him._ Director told me' you too can have· weapon--so what if Oswald got 
weapon. 
Sincerely, 
. -&,lz.g}:7/,. C$-t)~~~ 
Sergyf ~;monoh 
U.S. Passport fl)027~00 
U.S House of Representatives 
Select Committee on Assassinations told me to write letter to Embassy in early 1977. 
/ 
