( 
( 
7. 
[e.] When ?.n informant or formnr .i.nforrr.an~ is initially considered as a. 
potenti:;,l Hiti.es& in a Bureau en:'"'> 8.eterminc wh,J'l:.ber he p,dd 
Federal ~.nd state ·ta:xes on tl.e income l~e recei vecl from· the Bureau 
for his services. Jf such ta~es h~ve not been paid, obtain all 
pertinent details and promptly sutrr.i t recommendations for handling 
the situation. 
Stipulation re payments made to witnesses 
lOTN 
a. In trials in which informants, forcer informants, or other persons who 
were paid su~s of m0ney are prospec~lve witnesses, the Bureau must 
furnish tho Department a set of photostats o~ the origin~l receipts 
signed by the prospective witness&s. The original receipts and a set 
of photo stats will he tr<:.nsmi tted to the field office in whose . 
territory the tri~l will take place. The office handling prosecution 
must determine from "I.he Government attorney whi oh individuals are 
to be used as witnesses. Thereafter the office should furnish and/or 
cause other appropriate offices to furnish to the Bureau the follow-
inl information: 
l
l The correct, full name 
2 ltll aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
3 The first date of contact by your office 
4 Tf first contact was prior to September, 1944, the names of all 
SAss SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made paymen·!;s 
(5) A tabulation of all ·payments, broken down as to ~he amount appli­
cable to services and the amount applicable ·l;o expenses. 
Although tabulations are not furnished to the Department, those 
prepared by· your off-ice will be reconciled with Bureau records. 
(6)· A listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
advances 
(7
8
) The date of last contact by your office 
( ) Whether the individual has been contacted by any other office 
bo Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. 
If no contact was made with a par·ticular individual, the Bureau must 
be so advised. 
c. Where. an informant has previously been used and a tabulation of pay­
ments was prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be given 
only from the date of the last trial from which the individual was 
used. 
d. The above information should be submitted separate and apart from 
correspondence set·ting forth derogatory information, and should be 
addressed to the attention of the Administrative Division, Voucher 
Un~.t. Interdivisional corresponden.ce should be addressed to the 
Bureau with copies designated for the interested offices. 
8. Receipt of unemployment compensation 
a. At times' security informants and/or· sources temporarily lose their -jobs 
with priv.ate industry due to strikes, economic conditions, or similar 
circumstances. As a r·esult they become eligible for uneJ11ployment 
compensation. Where unemployment regulations require listing of all 
sources of income as a prerequisite for obtaining unemployment 
compensation and security inf·ormants and/or sources who at the time 
are being pa.id by the Bureau. for services rendered fail to comply, 
·the situation is potentially embarrassing. The Bureau cannot be· 
placed in the position of condoning a violation of the- state law on 
th·e part of any informant or source. Each field office must determine 
from state unemploymen:t compensation officials effect of unemployment 
compensation laws on paid informants and/or sources. Depending on 
local requirements, -informants ·ancl sources must be alerted- aocor.clifl,gly. 
f NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1582 
21 
9-18-=-64 
