13-00000 
I 
I I 
{ 
Memorandum to Mr. Tolson 
. At tliis point, I told Justice Fortas of. the memoranda in which 
the Director in 1963, at the specific request of the President, had furnished 
the President concerning Bellino, et al., and that the President had the 
following day dismissed these individuals from tmployment at the White 
- House. I mentioned that Kenny O'Donnell had immediately advised Bobby 
Kennedy, and Bobby Kennedy had had Ed Guthman issue a direct threat to 
us 1n connection with this matter. ~ustlce Fortas stated this was typical 
of Kennedy. 
Justice Fortas next made reference to the decision handed 
down by the Supreme Court yesterday in connection with confessions. He 
stated that he sincerely hoped that the Director and the personnel of the FBI 
would pay close attention to the conclusion of the statement by Chief Justice 
Warren wherein the Chief Justice clearly implied that the FBI was a model 
agency for all law enforcement to follow. Justice Fortas told me that he 
wanted the Director to know that following Thurgood Marshall's inept and 
stupid pre·sentation to the Supreme Co1.J:t regarding the general matter o! 
confessions, be, Justice Fortas, had been ins~umentai in instr'ucting 
Thurgood Marshall to specifically return to the Department an~ ascertain 
exactly how the FBI handled the matters of questioning o! subjects, arraign­
ment of subjects, confessions, etc. He stated that Marshall therefore, as a 
result of such actlon, had found it necessary to submit such procedures to 
the Supreme Court. He stated on this basis, Chief Justice Warren had no 
alternative but to pat the FBI on the back. • 
:-,a: • Justice rortas inquired as to the Director's opinion concerning 
Ramsey Clark. I told him that the Director of course had enjoyed a very 
favorable friendly relationship with Justice Tom Clark for many years and 
that the Director had also enjoyed a fairly favorable relationship with Ramsey 
Clark, however, not anYWhere near as close as the friendship with his father. 
I told the Justice that the Director had received information pointing out tha~ 
despite the fact Ramsey Clark was known as a "Johnson man, " he nevertheless 
could see no wrong 1n Bobby Kennedy. Justice Fortas stated that he felt 
\ 
Ramsey was a good man but young, naive and one that constantly looked down 
1 
into the deep waters and could see no wrong in anyone. He stated that Ramsey 
Clark was a "dreamer. " Justice Fortas then inquired as to whether or not 
there are any loyal Johnson supporters in the Department. I stated that the. 
Director had inentioned on a number of occasions that perhaps the only one 
who could be declared a loyal supporter of the President's was Ed Weisl, Jr. 
The Justice expressed no surprise. He stated he thought this to be the case. 
- 5 -
CONTINUED ..... OVER 
' 
