- '.i,, 
1women1 s National March on 
The Pentagon, April 10, 1971 
ttf:路, 
"'' 路'"' 
C 01:~FI DENT IA L 
schools in the area was read by Kaplan to determine if 
contacts had been made to leaflet, et cetera. rt appeared 
that the majori~y of schools had been reached, but there were 
still several yet to be orga_.nized. 
A representative from the committee was sent to 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where contact was made the women's. 
center and the "Kensington Collective, 11 concerning the April 
10 march onmshington. 
The source stated that several women at the meeting 
complained that the weatherman leaflet (previously referred to) 
was ineffective as it was directed only toward young hippie 
women. One woman argued in favor of this leaflet, but later 
stated 11we'll do another one." .路 I 
The source stated that a committee was est~plished 
to work.on advertising of the march and that Barba~?:/4":R.~iilY, 
among others, volunteered for this work. A second committee 
was formed to plan the rallies in Washington, DLQ_\-It was 
stated there would be a brief rally at the Justice Department 
and a major rally at the Pentagon. In addition, they would 
arrange for the receipt of telegrams from the Toronto 
conference~ and Madame Binh$ head of the Vietcong delegation 
to the Paris peace talks and the North Vietnamese in Paris. 
It was also stated that there would be guerrilla theaiEr's and 
a leaflet pointing out 11targets 11 along Constitution Avenue. 
Barbara Reilly 
On October 21, 1970, the above source advised 
that Barbara Reilly as of that date was a member 
of the weatherman,J:g,,g_tion of Student~J~...r._a_ 
Democratic Society ( sns) .. 
A characterization of SDS is attached hereto . 
. 
On April 5, 1971, the above source advised that 
concerning the Women's National March on the Pentagon, that .six 
buses will depart the Uptown Women's-center, 627 Amsterdam 
Avenue, NYC, that six additional buses will depart the north 
side of Union路Square, NYC, and that two more will depart from 
109 East 184th Street, Bronx, NY (across the street from the 
l 
CONFIDENTIAL 
3 -
NW 88321 Dodd:32989544 Page 497 
