TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALI~T 
N. THE Wl·l\1E H0US:. i.:H/',f 
~ 
The Special Group Decision of 9 October 
61. By late September the delays in accomplishing the 
.four-flight program, coupled with a mass of evidence that the 
Soviet build-up was continuing, had generated a gr·eatly 
increased sense of urgency in Washington. • It should again 
be ~oted, however~ that high~level consideration of the. 
possibility that MRBMs might be deployed· to Cuba had always 
been in terms of Soviet action after the SA-2 defense was 
fully operational. There is no documentary evidence of action 
directed toward the overflight of SAM~defended areas until the 
Special Group (Augmented) meeting of 4 October. At this 
.meeting the DCI pointed out that U-2 flights were now (before 
• the last two missions of the 10 September program) restricted 
by. the presence of SAM sites to the southeastern quadrant of 
Cuba. _ According to the minutes. of this ineeting· "-i t~was· •• 
questioned /by the DCI7 whether.this was a reasonable restric-· 
tion at this time, particularly since the SAMs were·almost 
cer.tainly not ·operational." The Group· then ordered the NRO 
to-·prepare an overall program for reconnaissance of Cuba for 
presentation at the Group's meeting of 9 October. 
62. On 6 October, COMOR provided to the 1-TRO a memo-
randum entitled "Intelligence Justification and Requirements 
f-or Overflight of Cuba" for use in this presentation. Para 
Al. of this paper stated that "there is now a pressing and 
continuing need for up-to-date. intelligence on the progress 
of the Soviet arms build-up in Cuba. The very-highest levels 
: of-·the government are dependent upon this intelligence to 
assist in making policy decisions of immediate and vital con­
cern; to the nation." Para A2., COflJlllenting on the absence of 
coverage of western Cuba since 29 August, included t~e state­
ment that 119rou~d observers have, 1.n several recent instances, 
reported sightings of what they believe to be Soviet MRBMs in 
Cuba. These reports must be confirmed or denied by photo 
coverage." Attached to the memorandum were a number of target 
lists, on which the area previously targeted around San 
Cristobal appears, together with recommendations for attack 
of particular-targets by satellite, U-2, oblique, FIREFLY, 
or FSU-lP/RF-101 photography. (USIB, considering this paper 
on 6 October, recommended to the Special Group full coverage 
of t~o of these lists which did not specifically include San 
Cristobal, but which by its nature would have covered th~t 
area and the other ballistic missile sites as well.) 
-30-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
' 
