13-00000 
SE'CRET' 
SUBJECT: Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board 
agreement. ~:n_ttachmen:.: I is Mr. Palmer's signed 
secrecy agreement. It should be noted that Mr. 
Palmer resides in Mexico. 
5. Our relationship with cover providers would be 
jeopardized if it became publicly known that they were providing 
cover to CIA employees. The Department of State could very well 
raise objections to our future use of State cover. Of increasing 
importance to the Agency at this time is the critical use of 
private sector (nonofficial) cover providers. The.private sector 
would no doubt drop contact and avoid future dealings with us if 
we reveal a covert relationship. Identifying covert 
relationships with cover providers would paralyze Agency 
operations which in turn could severely damage national security. 
In addition, in the pa~t it has exposed CIA to legal liabilities 
and substantial monetary damages. 
6. Headquarters Regulation (HR) 240-1 is the Agency's 
regulation on cover. It states that "cover is required for all 
Agency operations, activities and installations abroad, including 
personnel in PCS or TOY status." HR 240-2, the Agency's 
r~gulation on cover after separation, states that "the 
determination that an employee will retain all or a part of his 
or her cover after separation from the Agency will be based upon 
the judgment that separation in an overt status could result in 
damage to the national security by compromising intelligence 
sources, methods, activities, and/or information, or cause harm 
to. foreign relations. This determination will be made on a c~~e­
by-case basis." PJ:ease note that all Agency employees who retire 
abroad must retire under cover. 
7. Release of names of former employees who separated under 
cover will make the entire Agency cover program vulnerable and 
detract from our continuing efforts to enhance cover and conduct 
sometimes dangerous activities necessary to carry out the' 
Agency's mission. We can accept the purpose of the JFK 
Assassination Records Review Act to declassify documents for 
public consumption; however, we submit that the release of true 
names of former Agency employees adds no value to the documents 
in addition to risking physical harm tci these individuals from 
our public detractors. We propose and emphatically encourage 
that pseudonyms, aliases or generic job descriptions such as desk 
officer be used in place of true names which would not diminish 
the impact of the documents. 
3 
SECRET 
