13-00000 
Office, and ultimately the Department of 
State spent a substantial amount of time 
resolving the issues that arose in the appeal 
process, and for those important records that 
were at issue, the Review Board considered 
its time well-spent. The Review Board simi­
larly dealt with other key records and spent 
as much time as was necessary to deliberate 
and decide upon those records. 
The postponement-by-postponement review 
at each early Review Board meeting proved 
to be a slow and careful process. The post­
ponement-by-postponement review proved 
to be a necessary educational process for the 
Board members. The Board members were a 
group of five citizens who were selected not 
for their familiarity with the subject of the 
assassination, but for their professional com­
petence in history and law. Thus, through 
reviewing individual documents at its early 
meetings, the Board essentially educated 
itself about the assassination. 
While the Review Board did need time to edu­
cate itself and to develop its policies, the 
Board's pace eventually increased. In an effort 
to streamline its work, the Review Board con­
sulted with federal agep.cies such as the CIA 
and FBI to work out an approach for review of 
records that would allow the Review Board to 
make informed decisions, but not require 
agencies to spend hundreds of hours locating 
evidence for and providing briefings on each 
postponement within an assassination record. 
The first step to developing a reasonable 
approach was for the Review Board to for­
mulate general rules for sustaining and 
denying postponements. The Review Board's 
"guidance" to its staff and the agencies 
became a body of rules-a Review Board 
"common law." Once the Review Board noti­
fied an agency of its approach on a particular 
type of postponement, the agency learned to 
present only those facts that the Review 
Board would need to make a decision. For 
example, with regard to FBI informants, the 
Review Board notified the FBI of what it con­
sidered to be the relevant factors in its deci­
sionmaking. In other words, it defined for the 
Bureau what it considered to be "dear and 
convincing" evidence. Then, the Review 
Board worked with the FBI to create a one­
page form titled an "Informant Postpone­
ment Evidence Form" that the FBI could use 
47 
to provide evidence on an informant. (See 
illustration.) The form allowed the FBI to 
simply fill in the answers to a series of ques­
tions about the informant in question, which 
in tum allowed the Review Board to focus on 
those facts that it deemed to be dispositive in 
a particular document. This approach had 
the added benefit of providing consistency to 
the Review Board's decisionmaking. 
A large number of records that the JFK Act 
defined as "assassination records" proved to 
be of very low public interest. The JFK Act 
required the Review Board to process all 
records that were "made available" to the 
Warren Commission and the Congressional 
Committees that investigated the assassina­
tion, whether or not the records were used by 
the Commission or the committees. Many of 
these records, while interesting from a histo­
rian's perspective, are not closely related to 
the assassination. For those documents that 
were of little or no public interest, the Review 
Board modified its standards in the two ways 
described below. 
A. "NBR" Guidelines: Records that Review 
Board judged were "not believed relevant" to the 
assassination. For those records that truly had 
no apparent relevance to the assassination, 
the Review Board designated the records 
"not believed relevant" (NBR). The "NBR" 
Guidelines allowed the Review Board to 
remove irrelevant records from further con­
sideration. Records that the Review Board 
designated "NBR" were virtually the only 
groups of records that the Review Board 
agreed to postpone in full. Thus, the Review 
Board was always extremely reluctant to des­
ignate records "NBR" and rarely did so. 
B. Segregated Collection Guidelines. For those 
records that were not immediately relevant, 
but shed at least some light on issues that the 
congressional committees that investigated 
the assassination explored as potentially rele­
vant to the assassination, the Review Board 
created the "Segregated Collection Guide­
lines." The segregated collections records, 
although marginally relevant, were not 
appropriate for "NBR" designation, as the 
"NBR" Guidelines would have resulted in 
withholding records in full. Instead, the 
Board passed the "Segregated Collection" 
Guidelines, which ensured that the Review 
Board staff would review every page of the 
ill~· 
·' 
I 
