Page 6 
Cuban affairs during this period leading up to the Bay of Pigs received 
active high-level attention. Bissell said that, in a continuation of the kind 
I 
of intense weekly scrutiny the Eisenhorer Administration had given the invasion 
' 
plans (Bissell, 6/9/75, p. 13). 
" ... almost from the beginning of the Kennedy 
Administration, the President himslef and a 
number of Cabinet members and other senior 
officials took a very active interest in the 
operation(s) concerning Cuba." (Bissell, 6/9/75, 
p~ 16). - • 
i Bissell "almost invariably" was present at meetings in which the President 
and other senior officials took an "active interest" in Cuba (Bissell, 6/9/75, 
I 
' 
p. 17). Bissell testified that he did not inform any of them of the assassin­
ation plot. (Bissell, 6/9/75, p. 39). 
c. KENNEDY AIMINISIRATION OFFICIALS DENIED~ OF ASSASSINATION EFFORTS 
AND GAVE OPINION TI!AT PRESIDENT KENNEDY WAS t-t:rr Il1F01'$1£.b 
Testimony was taken by the Committee from all living officials high in 
the Kennedy Administration who dealt with Cuban affairs.* The theme of their 
testimony -- which is set forth in detail below -- was that they had no know­
ledge of any assassination plan or attempt by the U.S. government before or 
after the Bay of Pigs invasion. 
As with the Eisenhower Administration officials, members of the Kennedy 
Administration also said they did not believe the Presiqent's character or 
style of operating would be consistent with approval of such a matter. 
(McNamara, p. 4; Bundy, p. 98; Taylor, pp. 45,51). 
x ~bst of the testimony from officials high in-the Kennedy Administration 
dealt with the period after the Bay of Pigs invasion, involving Operation Mon-
goose and related activities. (See Section ,infra.) It was during this period 
that most of the high officials in the White House, State Department, Defense 
Department, and the CIA were drawn into the cietailecl plannir1g .. of Cuban ,operations. 
D't.1ring this period,· an ~traor~ amount of decision making memoranda and 
other documents were gener'afe'crin response to the Cuban situation. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 124 
