13-00000 
PRE-HEARING QUESTIONS 
ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD 
I. Nomination Process and Potential Conflicts 
1. Were any conditions, expressed or implied, attached to you~: -· 
nomination to be a member of the Assassination Records Review Board 
(ARRB)? 
No 
2. Have you made any commitments with 
programs affected by your role as a member 
No 
respect to pcil·icies or· 
of -the ARRB? -~ i; 
':: ,•.··-1) 
3. Are there any issues involving the ARRB from which you may 
have to disqualify yourself? 
No 
4 . Have you been a party to any legal actions or 
administrative proceedings pertaining to access • to:, • or discl_osure 
of, federal records on the subject of the· assassination of 
President Kennedy? 
No 
II. Role and Responsibilities 
1. What particular qualifications and experience do you bring 
to the role of being a member of the ARRB? 
a. Staff member. of the Public Documents commis·sion, 
created by congress after the Nixpn tape controversy. Thia 
commission held hearings, sponsored studies on public records and 
wrote a .final report. As a staff member, I was introduced ·to the 
promises and problems of preserving federal· records and providing 
access to them. _ 
b. Project Director, committee on Records -of Government. 
This foundation funded project was designed to study the 
relationship between information management and records management, 
particularly as it applies to computer generated records. As 
project director I worked closely with the Chairman of _the 
Committee -arid its members. I organized hearings, wrote summaries of 
the hearings to be circulated to ~e committee and was responsible 
for preparation of the final report. 
c. As an historian of American Foreign Relations, I have 
researched documents: • in th~ National Archives (including four 
Presidential Libraries) from the era of the Cold War. I am very 
familiar with "withdrawal" notices of classified material as well • 
as the kind of material that has been released. 
d. I have been elected and/or appointed to several 
comittees sponsored by various historical organizations that have 
