( 
( 
r 
f 
r 
107U SECT:rOM le SECURITY :rl{F'ORHAJiTS AND CONl.l:NTIAL SOURC1~S 
5. Uti 1i za:ti on 
6. 
7. 
a, If confidential sou.roe· :is to be used for assistance in security 
or racial investigations, secure Bureau approval~ and background • ( 
data. mu.st be fu!'nished ·to the Bureau of the same 'vype wh:i.ch is 
required for potential security and potential racial inf'orm~.nts. 
b, Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters "in ~1ich the 
fl'equency of contact is dependent upon circumstances of the indi vi du.al 
case, confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained should 
also be contacted at least once every two weeks in the same mann·er 
as security informants. 
c. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted, 
d, Contacts with confidential sou.roes should only be made by the Agent 
or Agents s~ecifically designated for that purpose, 
e. The letter to the.Bureau requesting authority to uae a subject 
as a confidential source is to set out clearly the follo1:ing informa-
tion: -
(·1) • Background information, including date and. place of birth~ 
citizenship status s residence, employment, credit and arres·h_ 
record, and service record, if any 
(2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confid~3tial source, together with the results of any 
interviews conducted wi·hh him 
( 3) .A statement to the effect subject is being considered a con­
fidential source and that he will be advised he is not a 
Bureau. employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
ship with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters. 
f •. [One of the required copies of the letter requestirrg :" :•0rity to use 
a subject as a confidential source should consis•b o, •f the first 
page of the letter.] If the request is approved at. t: : ,treau, a .. 
stamped notation will be placed on the[single-page]c<?: <!.nd[it w:i.11 
be]returned to the field indicating that authority is Gr~nted to 
consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
au·t;hori ty are not to be transmitted to the Bureau. until subject. :ls 
sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background inforrr.,-.:' ~m 
obtained. 
Security and racial confidential sources - certification of stab· y and 
payments 
a. Every four months a letter of justificati~ should be subml' 
the Bureau requesting continuation of pay,. ·.ts to ·se·curit: ..,;.a.l 
confiden·bial sources. See 107N", 3b, f•or f, :·,") of letter. 
b, If the security or racial source is not being paid on Burt thoriza-
tion and is beint; used regularly, t, (, .Agent handling the s, ... ,,:- must 
dictate a memorP .. ~ ·1m to the SAC for :.:he file containin~ th,.~ same 
certification a:e.: ··.o stability and reB.abili ty as required by payment 
letters. 
Gifts 
Gifts to sources shall not ~e reclaimed as blue siip items. 
8. Discontinuance 
Ad.vise Bureau when confidential source is discontinued, and the reasons 
therefor. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1539 
2€. 
3-16-60 
