13-00000 
I I . .., 
AUSTRALIAN COMMBNTS ON 
BXBCUTIVB ORDER 12958 -
CLAS SIFTED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION 
• 'The Australian government wishes to rcgbter ILS concern over the 17 April Executive 
Order on CJasslfled National~Securlty In!onnution and the apparent omission of o.ny 
e,q>licit provision to protect foreign-sourced informatJon • or documentation from 
automatic dccla.~lflcatlon onco it iic over 2S years old. 
• The Australian. government understands and support, tho democratic prlnc.,iples and 
~nunitment to open sovcroment which wtderpin the Bxooudvc Order. We too are • 
improving access ·~ government infonnatlon, buL a..l'e malnt~g provisions to 
protct.1 foreign-sourced Information-including U.S. infonnatlon .. 
• We do not agree th.at these prJnCiples cnn be applied by one foreign a:ovcrn.menuo tho 
information or docwncntation of-another sovernment wl1.hout prior consultation and 
• clearance. Australlan-sourced infonn11tlon was and continues .to be passed to the U.S. 
government on the understanding that It wilt be protected. We adopt precisely the 
same approach to in!ormatlon that tho U.S. shares whh UR. 
. . 
• Omission of such consultation would, in the eyes of the. Aus.ttalian gov~mcnt. not 
be in keeping with the 1962 U.S.-Australfa Oencral Security· of Inlonnatlon 
agreement or the many other bih1tcral and ,nuttllateral tntelligcnce co- operation and 
Information sharing agreement.,. • , 
• Toe failure to pro.tcct sensitive Austrtillrm•sourccd tnrormatlon about, !or example, 
our intelligence operatiomt, could have ra.Ihlfication1 !or our rclationic with regional 
countries and compromlre Intelligence sources and methods (upon which the· U.S. 
dependK in part). • 
• Au.litralian concerns could be addressed lr provl.s1on for clearance with orls,'lllatots ot 
: !oreign:isourced material was embodied ln the Infonnation Security ,Oversight Office 
~ lmplemena&tioii dlrectlvc to U.S. a.gcnclcs. I 
:,".~ 
• - such an approach should not impede or delay the decla!:illicatlon procesa -
Australia is not seeklng this. Por example, categories ot sensldvity for Australia · 
could be identlfled. A reasonable time llmlt could be put on A u11tlllllan tespon50 
time oJter which the U.S. could be free to declassify (we have a similar 
urrangcmcnl wllh the U.K.). 
