( 
[ 
( 
4. 
PART II • 
·PUBLICATIONS, PRESSj .AND PUBLIC CONT.ACTS 
6K - L • 
Included in the index may be indi vi:lual s in Government, business, or 
industry. Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information. ·set UF 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alFha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. An index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards may be kept by resident .Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a locked, steel file cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in the ~ield office. The cards shall pertain only to the 
territoTy covered; under such circumstances there shall be no duplicate 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete • 
or when it is determined a source is deceased. 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not remove. 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information index except when it has been determined that source is 
deceased, at which time general index card can be destroyed inµnediately. 
Under all other conditions the general index cards shall be reta,.ined for 
20 years subsequent to the removal of cards from the special source of 
infor:mation index. 
Files 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparation of sources 
of information. 
Security and extremist sources of information· 
Every six months a letter of justification (FD-401)-should be submitted 
to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and extremist 
sources of information. Follow instructions set out in section[l30I,]item 
2b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions .. If the security or extremist 
source of information is not being paid on Bureau authorization and is 
being used regularly, the Agent handling the source of information must 
dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certifi­
cation as to stability and reliability as required by payment le-ttei!?s. 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such actions might be mis­
construed. 
[PUBLIC CONTACTS 
1. Public contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, 
can and do render extraordinary service or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assistance to the FBI.. 
2. Immediately upon assuming the duties of SAC, such SAC should visit 
leading officials located in the field division.] 
7-8 
2-27-75 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 262 
