13-00000 
I 
oliil8li~ p_.O.., }Lf:S 
ORGANIZATION J, ,- 11~f'J}'iR 1-1 la 
/t&1e./-6f .. 
11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECH­
NOLOGY 
a.· THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECBNOLOGY. The Deputy 
Director for Science and Technology ls responsible for conducting basic and 
applled research and development In the scientific and technical fields In 
support of the Central Intelligence Agency. This Includes responslblllty for 
liaison and contact with the scientific community as well as all Government 
agencies' on matters of science and technology In Intelligence as appropriate, 
and responslblllty for fun1lshlng technical planning, programming guidance, 
and support to other Agency components utlllzlng science and technology In 
support of their. functions. The Deputy Director for Science and Technology 
ls responsible for the operation of certain technical collection projects and 
for the .research and development of the means used by them for technical 
collection; for the production of scientific and technical lntelllgence; and for 
research, development and, where appropriate, the operation of automatic 
data processing equipment In support of the Central Intelligence Agency and 
Its mission; and ls further responsible for the maintenance and operation of 
a center In which all Information relailng to foreign missile and space opera­
tions ls collated, analyzed, and .Provided for the Director and other appropriate 
usm agencies .. The DDS&T shall operate a scientific career service to pro­
vide for the enhancement of career opportunities In the CIA, and shall direct 
and coordinate the Offices of Computer Services, EI.INT, Research and De­
velopment, Special Activities, Scientific Intelligence, and Foreign Missile and 
Space Analysis Center, and serve as Chairman of the CIA Research and De-
velopment Review Board. (Se~ organization chart, figure 3.) • 
27 March 1964 (182) 
• SECitM. 
c;1ou•·, 
hclvd.-d f10- Ow-0-oltC 
..... ,,.od••· .-cl 
d.cS.ntr..ci!';,o.,. 
15 
