[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
6B - D PART II 
SECTION 6$ PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
d.- Each insert should be filed with the bulletin to which it relates ... 
No indexing of individual notices contained therein is ·necessary 0 
4. Each office must submit to the Bureau annually at lea.st three suggestions 
for articles, identifying the suggested author, and briefly describing 
the nature of the suggested article. The articile should not be prepared, 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any gen.erai or specific. sub­
ject of law enforcement interest, including the following: 
a. Better inve~tiga.tive or administrative methods and techniques of 
any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI National 
Academy men 
b. Improved nr unusual equipment being used 
c. Complicated, unusual_. and well-handled cases which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems and excellent police work 
q 0 Human interest items from local police work 
e. Police and firearms t~a~ning subjects 
f., Crime prevention articles from departments ·which have taken aggre.ssi ve 
action to combat juvenile delinquency 
g 0 Transmit all material to the Bureau -under the caption: 
FBI .Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research (Crime Records) 
C • SPEECHES 
1. Bureau is to be·notified of all speaking engagements. Speaking engage­
ments are to be handled by the SAC. If he cannot handie them, the .A.SAC 
should. If neither can, an Agent previously appr9ved as a speaker is 
to be·designated and the Bureau advised UA.CB. Changes in speaking en_gage­
ments must·be communicated promptly to the Bureau. Three weeks prior to 
any radio or television[appearance,)a manuscript of the[remarks)must be 
submitted for the Bureau's review and approval[unless previously approved 
Bureau material is utilized or the program is of an impromptu nature and 
time does not permit prior Bureau approval.] In some oth'er cases involv­
ing important speeches, the Bureau will specifically request such manu­
scripts. If speech is to be broadcast or televised, prior Bureau approval 
of manuscript and commitment must be obtained. These regulations, as 
well as all other FBI administrative proced~res, should not be the sub­
ject of comment to• the public. 
2. Copy of Bureau letter lpproving speaker should be placed in his field 
personnel file. 
3. Xach office is to designate a supervisor to handle speech material. 
To this supervisor must be routed law enforcement bulletins, FBI Notes, 
interesting case material, magazines, research literature, and newspaper 
clippings containing information of value to police instructors and 
approved speakers. This material to be indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in the speech material fileso 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting oases may be: 
a. Requested by the Bureau 
b. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c. Suggested by other offices 
2~ They are prepared concerning oases of: 
a.. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
c. • Unusual and eff'ective investigative techniques 
d. Novel investigations of human interest 
3. They a.re prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b. Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of :first page 
c, Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d. Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
f. In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence· 
2 
3:...29-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1027 
' 
C 
( 
