.•,·-• _,: ,, 
. . \ 
most notably at Brandeis University where two professors from San . 
Francisco State College allegediy contributed to the seizing of the 
Administration Building on January 8, 1969, . and American University, 
Washington, D. C. , , where members of the Students for a Democratic . 
• Society allegedly traveled to. ·washington, D. _ C. , and participated in 
seizing a building on the campus on April 23, 1969. 
INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION 
•• OF~TOLEN -MOTOR VEHICLE 
INVESTIGATIONS (DYER ACT) 
In the fall of 19 67, the.for mer Attorney Gener.al and his 
staff held confer.ences with vartous United States Attorneys (USA) 
here in Washington, D. C .. Following these conferences, we learned 
of a divergence of opinion among USAs concerning the Department's 
views in prosecuting Interstate Transportation of Stolen Motor Vehicle . 
(ITSMV) cases. Some had_ the op.inion that only automobile theft ring 
cases should be prosecuted in Federal court while others were of the 
opinion that only cases having commercial aspects should be considered 
for such prosecution. Other USAs felt only cases po~sessing aggravated 
circumstances should be considered. • Some continue to consider ·each. 
case on its individual merits~ During the period October, 1967, 
through May, 1968, we wrote four letters to the former Attorney 
General requesting the Department's views concerning the prosecution 
of these cases~ In a letter dated April 12, 1968, to the Department, 
we set forth our views that prosecution of Dyer Act cases in Federal 
. court should not be restricted to commercial matters and to adults, 
• but rather that each case should be considered on its individual merits. 
None of these letters were answered. On March 5, 1969, we wrote the· 
present Attorney Genera!" informing him of the divergence of opinion among · 
USAs. This letter also requ~sted the Attorney General furnish us his 
view's concerning this matter; however, an answer has not been received . · 
to date. • 
-
-5-
J Ln,.,n ..... nui 
Page 677 .. 
