10711 - N SECTION 107 •• i<.lCURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFID.,i'IAL SOURCES 
document in the pertinent informant file and is not to be se~ialized. ( 
If a particular section of this form is not applicable, su·ch should be _ 
noted thereon. If it later becomes applicable, the serial number can be 
noted at that time. 
12. Bulky material submitted by informant_ 
Where i·nformant or source submits bulky material other than a statement 
and same pertains to a specific investigative matter, bulky material may 
be filed in the investigative case file, together with a ~opy of executed 
form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
set forth on form FD-306. In such a case, the original form FD-306.or 
9hannelizing memorandum should be filed in the subfile of ·the informant 
or source and the file arid serial number where the bulky material is 
located should be noted thereon. 
N. PAYMENTS TO INFORMANTS AND liANDLING MONEY RECEIVED 
1. No gifts to informants 
a.. Gifts should not be given to informants siµ.ce such actions might-be 
misconstrued. 
b. Relationship between Agents and informants shall be main~ained on 
a businesslike ~a.sis. 
o. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirect1y, 
representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies 
and request assistance regarding payments of money., gifts, or products 
of such companies to informants. 
·2. SAC authority to pay informants 
For instructions regarding payments under SAC authority, refer to section 
[ [130H,)item 1, of this manual since comparable instructions apply to security 
informants and sources as those set forth for racial informants and sources. 
3. Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authoriza­
tion. 
b. In requesting authorization for payments, a justification must be fur- , 
nished Bureau. For this purpose, use form FD-401 and execute in accord- ( 
ance with instructions for racial informants and sources contained in 
[ section[l30H,]item 2b, of this ~anual. Justification for payments, 
of course, is based on activity of informant, potential informant, or 
source in matters having primarily a security rather than racial in­
terest. In espionage and foreign nationality matters use subheadings, 
where applicable. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1290 
18 
6-19-70 
