13-00000 
. t 
CENTRAL INT.ELLIGENCE AGENCY 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505 
Office of General Counsel 
Ronald G. Haron, Esq. 
General Counsel 
Assassination Records Review Board 
600 E Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20530 
31 August 1998 
Re: CIA Compliance With the JFK Assassination Records 
Collection Act of 1992 
Dear Mr. Haron: 
This letter responds to your 19 August 1998 request that the 
Central Intelligence·Agency confirm, in writing, who will certify 
its compliance statement. .This is to confirm that Edmund Cohen, 
the CIA's Director of Information Management, will sign. 
As Director of Information Management, Mr. Cohen is 
responsible for providing oversight and direction to the Agency's 
records and classification management activities, and information 
declassification and release programs. He is also responsible 
for the development and maintenance of automated tools to support 
these activities. He oversees classification and 
declassification .policies, procedures, and practices. He manages 
the Agency Archives and Records Center, and serves as the CIA· 
Archivist and the Agency Information Review Officer. He 
coordinates the conduct of all special searches within the Agency 
and the release of any information uncovered in.such searches. 
Finally, as Director of Information Management, Mr. Cohen is 
responsible to conduct, on behalf of the Agency; liaison with the 
National Archives and Records Administration and' its Office of 
the Federal Register, and with the Information Security Oversight 
Off.ice; and with any other entities on any matters within the 
responsibility or authority of the Director of Information 
Management. 
We believe that Mr. Cohen is clearly the most knowledgeable 
individual within the Agency, by position and experience, to 
execute such a certification. Based upon our short telephone 
discussion, I understand that he is, in addition, at least as 
senior as the anticipated signatories from other agencies or 
departments from which the Board has requested certifications. 
From a practical standpoint, we at CIA make a concerted effort to 
assure that the most knowledgeable.individuals speak on behalf of 
4 1898 
