13-00000 
3. 
-2-
As an ARRB member, I ~nvision my relationship and responsibilities to: 
a) the President to be one of faithfully executing to the best of my 
abifity the provisions contained in the President John F. Kennedy 
Assassination Records Collection Act of ·1992 : 
b) the Congress to be one of fulfilling the purposes of the same . 
legislation to the best of my ability, and to respc,nding fully to 
requests for infonnation from appropriate oversight groups 
concerning our progress; 
c) other executive branch agencies to be one of cooperating to the 
utmost of my ability to facilitate the review of any of their •• 
assassination records and to provide them with full infqnnation 
concerning our activities. • •• 
4. I view the job of ARRB Executive Director to be one of organizing staff 
for the most efficient and effective implementation of the poficies and procedures 
adopted by the Board. Apart from setting policies and procedures, there is no 
more important task for the Board than hiring the best~ualified Executive 
Director and overseeing the Executive Director's hiring of staff. 
Ill. POLICY ISSUES 
1. I have not made any public statements-oral or written--regarding the 
assassination of President Kennedy or the public availabilit)1 of government 
records regarding this assassination. 
~;--'. 
2. As an ARAB member, I will be examining security classified records with 
a view to at least partial public disclosure: 
a) I have had prior experience with security classified records first in 
working with the Papers of Senator Arthur Vandenberg at the Willi~ L. • 
Clements Library atlhe University of Michigan, where we had to initiate a 
declassification revi~w of parts of those·papers, and, second, inmy current duties 
at Princeton University where we have had to initiate contact with the State 
Department concerning the declassification review of hundreds of reels of 
microfilm of the most important state documents as selected by John Foster 
Dulles himself. • 
b) The current security classification system certain!~, h~s integrit~,. I 
would hope that, in the interest of a full~' infonned citizenry and accountable 
public officials, that somewhat more emphasis might be given to disclosure of 
records after the passage of a specified period of time, allowing for agency 
j 
