'{' " 
L.. ..... ...,I 
3 November 1960 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJ:C:CT: M.inutes of Special Group Meeting, 3 November 1960 
PRESENT: Messrs. Merchant, I")ouglas, Gray, Gen. Cabell, 
Gen. Lansdale 
.I 
1 . . Cuba 
Mr. Gray bquired once more as to th~ status of planning for 
problems which would arise post-Castro. Mr. Merchant said he 
. would check into t..'le progress of the State Department group whic_h 
has been charged with developi.:1g recommendations on this matter. 
From this the Gr.oup launched into a far-ranging discussior. of 
the entire concept of U.S. efforts agai!lst Castro. Mr: Douglas, 
supported by Mr. Gray and Mr. Merchant; e:qounded t::ic idea L'-:at 
pe.rhaps things have now progressed !:o a :point where covert activities 
of the type originally envisaged fo:::- CIA to undertake wili not be effective. 
Mr. Douglas referred to the extensi"ve program of the militia, Mr. Gray 
cited the matter of arms from the Soviet bloc, and Mr. Merchant dwelt 
on the increasing effectiveness of Castro 1 s measures to control the 
populatio.:1 in ways which the Communists have developed so weil. The 
la.tter said that he and others in the State Department had originally 
thought that a popular rebellion would develop within Cub3. and that 
this could be augmented by the com-oaratively small-scale efforts of 
I -
exiles unde_r CIA control. Now the same people are beginning to feel 
more and more th.at de spite the numerous defections and the economic 
deprivations being experienced by the r.1icidle and upper classes, ti.me 
is actually working on Castro 1 s side. Mr. Merchant said that he 
foresaw that there would occur a point iri ti.me beyond which covert 
intervention would not do the job. (' r ,·., , 
Mr. Gray expressed the opinion that we will never be able to 
"clean up 11 the situation without the use of overt U.S. military force. 
He suggested the possibility of usin 6 the CIA-backed exiles to-mount a 
simulated attack on Guant2.namo in order to offer an excuse for overt 
PROPE:RTY q:. r:, •-·: 
·HE WHITE HOUSL ri irl;r . " \ \ 
l. ~ . ~ ._J 
NW 50955 .Docid: 32423488 p • • age 19 
--
---
