87B 
f 
' ·,TION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATJ .,. 
v- •• 
Investigative procedures re subversive organizations,(revolutionary 
activities]groups, suspected subversive organizations, and co!ilITlunist fronts 
Develop fully and report on following topics, where applicable: 
a. Origin and scope 
D~te of formation. Circumstances under which founded. Identify 
individual or individuals responsible for organizing group. Identify 
all chapters and give their locations. 
·b. Whether incorporated 
Determine if organization has filed incorporation papers \'lith a.ppro­
~riate state officials. 
c. Aims and purposes 
Determine whether organization advo_cates -violence, resistanc~, and 
unlawful activity. 
d. Location of headquarters 
e. Officers 
List principal officers, including board of directors, and gi-ve ap­
propriate characterization of each showing subversive affiliation. 
f. Membership 
(1) General 
Ascertain estimated membership. Whene-ver possible, secure 
membership lists, mailing lists, or other re cords showing affil­
iation with organization. Secure accurate description of all 
lists to eliminate confusion as to exact identity or significance 
of any list. 
(2) CPUSA 
Details of semiannual reports are not to contain membership 
statistics. Following instructions are for co-ver pages. 
{a) Cover pages must contain latest statistics on total CPUSA 
members in district. Set forth on separate page or pages. 
Offices covering district headquarters should submit fol­
lowing figures: for entire district, for individual states, 
or portion of state covered by district. Auxiliary offices 
which have been authorized to submit this data, by letter 
should include membership figures in such letters and submit 
them to Bureau and office of origin on April 1 and October 1. 
Office of origin responsible to obtain complete figures 
from auxiliary offices. 
(b) Ea.ch office must show for its territory following: 
number of Negroes in CPUSA, name and title of each Negro 
who has national level position or who has district level 
position above that of club chairman. When possible, 
membership totals should be broken down as to nationality, 
sex, employment, veteran status, and membership in unions. 
{c) Include evaluation of reliability of figures furnished by 
each source and of final figures. Use of only one source is 
not acceptable unless facts demonstrate such information is 
most reliable available. Also include totals of positively 
identified CPUSA members and tentatively identified members 
within six-month period preceding report. 
{d) Explain in detail any increase• or decrease in membership.· 
Include results of membership recruiting drives. Endeavor 
to ascertain results of national registration drives. 
(e) Include whether all persons identified as CPUSA members in 
report who reside within area covered by reporting office 
are listed in Administrative Index (ADEX}, or a.re infor-
mants or sources. List any exception by name and show status, 
of investigation and whether name has been furnished to • 
Bureau for indexing. 
g. Official organ, if any, and other literature 
{1) May be obtained through confidential mailbox., pane 1 sources, and 
confidential informants 
{2
3
) Appropriately identify all such literature. 
( ) Promptly furnish to Bureau at least one copy of each pertinent 
piece of literature. 
h. General activities 
14 
6-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1395 
(_ 
