--- SECRET 
Betsy palr:ler 
File Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I - XVIII 
May 1, 1978 
Volume XV - June 1964 
1. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 30 May 1964 - information from 
Rogelio Cisneros Diaz - as of 30 May 1964, Ray had not entered CUba. Boat 
to be used in final infiltration developed motor trouble. JUHE reps were 
making all out effort to go to Ray's aid with replacement for boat end an 
additional supply of drinking water. 
2, Cable to .jl,f.;A.VE from DIR., dated 2 Ju...'1e 1961, Ref: ".7A\TE 7218 (in 95616)* 
Please note similarities rumor reported Ref Para 2 and statement attributed. 
to Rogelio Cisneros that CIA had instructed .AMW0RLD boats to fire on JURE 
boats per WAVE 3691 (Ill 41477). Is this significant? 
* Artime's followers authorized to attack any of Ray's or Gutierrez's men 
on high seas. 
2. Cable to DIR from Jw.1AVE dated 3 June 1964 .j stating that Ray and Andrew 
St. George were among the individuals arrested by the British near Cayo Largo. 
(Location of Anguilla Cay also used in cable). Detainees taken to Nassau. 
Tom Dune.an, Life photographer, also in group. 
3. Cable to DIR from J1,f1AVE, dtd 4 June 1964 - iJ/!rATJP /2 reported that Ray's 
organization going to make press statement that Ray's failure to enter 
Cuba was fault of CIA. 
4. Cable to DIR from JM1·lAVE. dtd 6 June 1964 reflects feelings of Cuban 
exile community over Ray's failure to enter Cuba. 
a. Ray made a fool of himself by taking a girl and two non-Cuban 
newsmen with hio, none of whome adapted to rigors of gu.errilla 
warfare. 
b. British and U.S. participated in Ray's capture 
c. Whole thing was a publicity stunt which wer:t wrong. 
d. Enrique Huertas jubilant over Pay's disgrace, out feels it is 
a loss of exile prestige and harbingers bleak and h91)eless period 
e. Dr. .Antonio Ma.ceo says many have lost faith in Ray for lack of 
accomplishment this past year.· 
f. Ray is laughing stock. Those who had hopes now feel he is 
only an ambitious politican not will to keep promises. 
g. JURE members confused and undecided over how to defend Ray. 
Alanis and Zarraga wish to remove their.followers from JURE, 
h. Cisneros states to .AMTAUP that Ray will accuse U.S. govt of 
treachery for cutting off economic aid one month ago and for 
searching his home, automobile and offices (Cisnero's?)(Photostats 
in volume XIV) 
SECRET 
