13-.Q.Q.Q.00 ·--~-~ .. -~--·:~· 
. .• .. .. 
. :..:.,:~~ . 
. :.--=~tt:·."--:-.-: . _.·,,. 
-
Mr. RANKIN. Would that be true, Mr. Helms, even after the Commission 
completed its report, you would keep the matter open if there was anything 
new that developed in the future that could be pr.operly presented to the 
authorities? 
Mr. HELMS. Yes. I would assume the case will never be closed. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. McCone, do you hav~ any ideas about improving the security 
provisions for the President that you would like to relate to the Commission? 
Mr. McCONE. Well, this is, in my opinion, a very important question which I 
am sure this Commission will-has and will-dernte a considerable amount of 
thought to, and undoubtedly have some recommendations as. part of its report . 
Mr. RANKIN. Your Agency does have an important function in some aspects . 
Mr. McCONE. we· have a very important function lo connection with the 
foreign travels of the President, and I would like to inform the Commission as 
to how we discharge that responsibility by quickly reviewing the chronology 
of the Central Intelligence Agency's support of President Kennedy's visit- to 
Mexico City from the 29th of June to· the 2d of July 1962. 
Mr. RANKIN. Will you please do that. 
The CHAIRMAN. Director, ls that a security matter? 
Mr. McCoNE. No. I think I can handle this for the record. 
The CHAIRMAN. Very well. 
Mr. McCoNl':; If I have to make a remark or two off the record I will ask that 
privilege. 
That visit, as I said, started on the 29th of June. On the 28th of April,. lo 
anticipation of the visit, instructions were transmitted to Mexico for the 
Ambassador to coordinate planning and informational guidance for the advance 
party of the Secret Service .. 
We asked that the Secret Service be gh·en information on local groups and 
persons who would cause dlsturb!l.nces, emb3.rrassments or physical harm, an 
estimate of the determination anci ability of the Mexican government to prevent 
incidents, and preparation for special briefings to the Embassy officials and. the 
Secret Service, and such additional support and communlcatlons· personnel that 
might be required. 
These instructions were given two months before.the trip. 
On the 15th of May, we received ~onfirmed information that the President 
would visit Mexico on the specific dates. On the 1st o{June the Secret Service 
was supplied by the Agency with the detailed survey of Mexican security forces .. 
that would be called upon to protect the President. 
Friendly and allied governments were informed of the visit and their coopera­
tion and pertinent informational support was solicited. From this date through 
the 2d of July daily information reports were furnished to the State Department, 
the Secret Service, the FBI and the military services. 
That is from the 1st of Julie to the 2d of July, a· period of 31, 32 days. On 
the 8th of June the Secret Service advance party was briefed ln detail by a 
group of officers of the Agency on the Mexican government's plans for the 
protection. of the President, including current information on the size, strength 
and capabilities of potential troub:emakers. • 
Hazardous locations and times lo the planned itinerary were identlfled, 
political ·and economic issu~s that might be invoked by hostile elements for 
demonstrations were specified. • 
On the 11th of June, the Secret Service advance party left for Mexico sup­
ported by additional security personnel to assist in coordinating an informational 
report and the followup activity required. 
Especially prepared national intelligence estimates on the current security 
conditions in Mexico was approved by the United States Intelligence Board 
on the 13th of June. 
On the 15th of June arrangements were completed to reenforce communica­
tions facilities. On the 24th of June a conference at the State Department was 
held at the request of the President for reviewing security measures, an.d this 
meeting I attended personally, and reported to the State Department on the 
essence of all that had gone before. 
Emergency contingency plans were discussed and a consensus was reached that 
the President should make the visit as scheduled. 
124 
