[ . 
[ 
( 
SECTION 107. .CURITY IN]'ORM.ANTS[AND CO,N~IDENIL SOURCES] 107N 
( 2) 
( 5) 
(12) 
(13) 
(14) 
Residence· t,,nd employment ( If no change since last justification 
ljtter, merely state "nc change,") 
Current membership in subversiv~ organizations 
Summary of information furnished and/or services rendered during 
pertinent period 
.Amount paid for serYices and expenses by month 
(Initial justification letter should set forth amount, if any, 
ever paid under S.AG authority.) . 
Type and number of meetings attended and other activity 
Number of written and oral statements submittecl 
(List separately.) 
Information furnished of unusual value 
.Approximate number of persons on whom informant furnished coverage 
and their importance 
Informant's potential for advancement 
Stability and reliability 
(Set forth personal weaknesses, domestic difficulties, indications 
of untrustworthine~s or unreliability, or other similar problems 
presented by informant, and steps being taken to prevent any such 
situations from later becoming source of embarrassment to the 
Bureau,) 
Indoctrination against disclosure 
(State whe·ther every opportunity has been taken to properly 
indoctrinate informant against making any disclosure of his 
relationship ~ith Bureau through any media.) 
".All necessary action taken on in£ormation furnished 
Miscellaneous 
(Any other matters concerning informant's operation which should 
·be brought to Bureau's attention) 
(Where applicable, substitute potential informant: confidential 
source, panel source, or source of information for the word "informant,") 
c. When payment to an informant has been authorized for a definit~ 
period of time, advise the Bureau at least two weeks in advance of the 
expiration of the period for which payment has been authorized as to 
whether the services of the informant ·are to be continued. 
cl. Every four months a letter cf justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of pa:yments. Follow form in 
subse·ction 3b. 
e, Letters requesting au~hority to continue (increase, decrease) payments 
to an informant should be submitted in duplicate except that the 
copy should consist only of the first page of the letter, When 
payments as requested by the field are approved, the single-page 
copy will be stamped "Approved" o>.t the Bureau and returned, If "the 
recommendation is not approved, correspondence will oe prepa,red 
and tr~msmi tted to the field. 
f. In order for this system to function properly, payment letters must 
be explicit, 
g. When payments are authorized by the Bureau, it is the personal res-p.onsi­
bility of each SAC definitely to assure himself that ftill value is 
being received. 
h. (Discontinu::>.nce of payments] 
If at any time it appears the information being produced by the 
informant is not commensurate with the payments being matle to him, 
the paym.ents should be immediately discontinued or a,djusted a,ccord:.i.ngly 
and the Bureau promptly advised. • 
i. O~xtraordinary expenses] 
In connection with the operation of paid informants, if any r3xtrn.or­
dinar~ expenses are anticipated for which approval has not been given, 
obtain specific Bureau authority. 
NW 88321 _ Docld:32989529 1793 19 
