t 
.x 
( 
f 
\ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
~' 
':. 
Q, 
H. 
-
P.ART II 
• 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONT.ACTS 
INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED TO THE BURE.AU 
l. Which does not have a nationwide circulation or interest 
a. Relating to law enforcemen~ concerning 
I
ll Scienti!ic apparatus 
2 Equipment 
3 Personnel 
4 'Methods 
( 5) Economics 
b. Newspaper clippings, other than i terns bearing the date· lin·e of a 
national wire service, should be submitted when they concern 
l) The FBI, derogatory and complimentary. If possible, show autho~. 
2) Outstanding abuses of parole and .probation 
3l Outstanding instances of juvenile crime 
4 Bad local crim~ conditions 
5 Scientific crime detection experts . 
6 Bureau police schools only whe~ there is some un~sual feature 
about the publicity. • Exampl_es: . i terns set·l;ing forth comments 
made by police officers -as to the va],.ue of polic_e schools; 
comments on the caliber of schools. in which FBI participates; 
incidents in which a police officer credits ins,t:r;-1:1,ction h:e> 
received in a police school _as enabling him to capture a fugitive, 
solve a case, or otherwise perform his work mo.re e_fficieJ?-tly. 
(File in individual files of police agencies clippings relative· 
to each police s_chool in which field participates.) : 
(7) Police training in colleges an_d univers"ities 
(8) Aggravated sex offenders 
(9) Matters appearing in the press concerning Members of .Congress or 
the names of prominent persons who are mentioned in connection 
with Bureau cases. These matters also include· wire service stories 
mentioning directly or indirectly persons of prominence in pending 
investigations- being handled in your division. Forward such 
matters immediateiy and if there is any question as to what 
action should be taken ask for specific instruct~ons. 
(10) Items of interest by nationally syndicated columnists need 
not be submitted if it is apparent that such items will come 
to the Bureau's attention through its review of Washington, 
D. C., newspapers. Columns of interest by writers syndicated 
regionally should, of course, be submitted. 
2. Method of preparation for transmittal 
a. Mount the clipping on form FD-350 within the bor~ers shown. 
b. Do not fold the clipping except in the case of a very large picture 
or in the case of a single word in a hiadline too long to fit in the 
allotted space. Make certain the clipping is placed evenly on the 
paper and does not haftg over its edges. If necessary, a second page 
may be used and the only requirement is that a margin at least 11/2 
inches deep should be left at the top of the page. 
c. The large block on the right side of FD-350 has space for the insertion .. 
of the names of more than one newspaper. The names of newspapers 
clipped may be overprinted in this·space. Placing the page number on 
the line in front of the name of the newspaper will serve to designate 
which paper the clipping is from. The page number may be written in 
longhand, Only the page number on which the article begins should 
be shown. If overprinting is not used, required information other 
than page number should be typed. 
d. [Show whether the matter mentioned is being investigated.] 
[e.] Inser~ staples hori~on~ally at the top and bottom and vertically at 
the sides of all clippings. Use only a sufficien·t; number of staples 
to hold the clipping securely to the paper. . . 
[f.] D? no~ mutilate ·or mark c~ipping in any manner by underlining or • 
circling words or by drawing arrows to direct attention. 
[g.] ~o cover letter needed when submitting clippings unless clarification 
is_required for a particular clipping. This may be handled by routin6 
slip, letter, or airtel accompanying clipping in question. D 
5 
7-26-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 962 
