TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
• ·: ·-. ·: -.: 
• • • •-• I •. I •· ,;.. 
E. Hard Intelligence on the Build-Up (Defensive Phase) 
18. Ouring the last week in August, CIA continued to 
follow the progress of the Soviet build~up, using shipping 
. information, communications intelligence, and agent and 
refugee source~. The Checklist of 29 August reported that: 
"There is no sign of a let-up in the movement 
of Soviet equipment and personnel into Cuba. 
"By latest count, there have during the 
past six weeks been some 80 voyages to Cuban 
ports by Bloc vessels and 20-35 by ships 
under Communist·charter. • 
"We note that deliveries of industrial 
equipment, foodstuffs, and other nonmilitary 
items are being made largely on chartered 
Western ships, p:r-obably because so many 
Soviet ships are ;involved i-n hauling military 
gear." • 
19. The first hard evidence on what the Soviets were 
. up to in Cuba was provided by photography of the 29 August 
mission. The President was told, in the Checklist of 
31 August that: 
"Preliminary information ·fr-om the 30 /sic7 August 
U-2 mission shows at least seven SA-2 sites on the 
western half of the island. Manning of this many 
sites would require some 1500-2000. Bloc troops. We 
are able to report on the basis of what is known so 
far that constructiori of t~e sites appears to be· 
fairly advanced and that there are canvas-covered 
"missiles in the vicinity of some sites. The existence 
of additional sites can probably be assumed. 
"The same source reveals seven or eight Soviet 
missile-equipped torpedo boats and an undetermined 
number of Soviet tanks. The Cubans have had Soviet 
tanks for some time, but this is our first indica­
tion that th~y now have boats of· this type. They 
appear to be KOMAR-class converted PT-boats, mounting 
two surface-to-surface missiles with an estimated 
range of 35 nautical miles." • 
After further analysis this information appeared in the 
Central Intelligence Bulletin of 6 September. On the 4th 
and 5th, General Carter briefed a number of congressional 
leapers, including the Senate Foreign Relations and Armed 
Services Commi tte·es. In a .White House statement, • also of 
4 September, the President publicly confirmed the presence 
of SA-2s and KO.MAR-clnss boats. 
-9-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
