[ 
[ 
[ 
6G 
2. 
PART II e 
SECTION 6. •• PUBLIC.A.TIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONT.ACTS. 
Identification ·orders, wanted flyers, check circulars,· and apprehension 
orders 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individuals 
and organizations to which identification orders, wanted flyers, check 
.circulars, and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each field office must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent to 
firms which have ceased business or have merged with other· organizations. 
A survey should be conducted by Agents each year by every office, a~ the 
time the field office mailing list is purged, to determine whether addi­
tional names of individuals a~d businesses should be added to the field 
office mailing list. 
a, Addressograph plates are to be prepared.at the Bureau upon receipt of 
field request. "(The Bureau will prepare·, on•it·~ own initiative, 
:Addressograph plates, for new FEIN.A graduates.) Titl.e of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on 
the list. • 
c. 
d. 
e. 
(1) The quality of the assistanpe the addressee is in a position to 
give 
(2) The cooperation which has been afforded 
(j) The following must appear on the list: 
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division Missions Providing Lodging 
Bureau of Customs Post Office Inspectors 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus Postmasters 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Salvation Army 
ment Officers Secret Service. 
FBINA Graduates U. s. Marshals 
Hotels 
Immigration and Naturaliza­
tion Service · 
(4) The fo+lowing may app~ar on the list: 
Automobile Clubs 
Banks .. 
[Car Re~tal Agencies) 
County Attorneys 
County Coroners 
·credit Companies 
Detective Agencies 
Enlistment Officers,[U. S, Air 
Force, )Army, N~_vy, Marine Corps 
Employment Service 
Fire Departmeni;s 
Forest.Service 
Gunsmiths 
. Insurance Companies 
Movie Studios 
Navy Shore Patrol 
Oil Company Special Agents 
Parole and Probation Officers 
Plant Quarantine Officers 
-Protective Associations 
Race Tracks 
Savings and Loan Associations 
Service Recruiting Officers 
State· Employment O.ffices 
State Hospitals for Insane 
Steamship Companies 
Telegraph Companies 
U. S. Attorneys, 
U. S. Commissioners 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapf?rS and periodicals only upon their specific request. 
Should a compelling reason exist f_or distribu·tici:ri" of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugit~ve by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approvai for 
such d,,istribution. 
Give 'c(~nsideration to the desirability of circularizing motels. 
Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has ree,ponsibll:ify for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
4 
2-27-62 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 329 
( 
' 
