) 
''\ 
SECTION 107. Ili'FORMAUTS .Al-TD COHFIDEN'l 11 SOURCES 
• 
107A - B 
A. DEFINITIONS 
1. 
2. 
4. 
Security informant 
Individual actively engaged in obtaining and furnishing current infor­
mation on security matters exclusively for Bureau and whose identity 
must be protected. Such person should b.e a member or attend meetings 
of a subvers5.ve organization, such as the Communist Party; or be in 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or espionage 
activities or intelligence activities in the U.S. on behalf of foreign 
principal that he is able to obtain and does provide current infor­
mation of value. 
Potential security infor!nant 
Individual in a position to become active in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be 
in a position actively to obtain and furnish current information to 
Bureau. 
Double. agent, __ .. -~ .~ · • - - ···· -· · ·- · 
A specialized type of security informant; a person who is cooperating 
with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreign 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance. 
Confidential source 
An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available 
to him through his present position. Examples would be: bankers, telephone 
_·· company employees, American employees of foreign official establishments, 
employees of the United Nations Secretariat,,and individuals who furnish 
trash in connection with trash coYers. These individuals make no 
concerted effort on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain and furnish 
information readily available, to them. 
B • SOURCES OF POTE.NTIAL SECURITY IN"FORMAHTS 
Informants should be developed on all organizations and individuals which 
2.re inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown that potential 
informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal investi­
gative activity. Live informant coverage depends for the most part upon 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs. For assistance 
in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested: 
1. ~valuation of 
a.. Complainants in security matters 
b. Persons interyiewcd in connection with security cases 
c.. Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of dis af­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation of party loyalty 
d. Bureau applicants as possible informants 
e. Personal friends and contacts of Special Agents and other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidenti.al sources, and contacts on con­
tinuous basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
[ . 3. Review of[reserve]i.ndex 
4. Ascertain possibilities of reactiv~ting former confidential informants. 
5. Survey possibilities of trash coYers~ 
6. Review factionalism section of file on Communist Party, USA. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffection 
on the part of Communist Party members. They, of course, should not be 
informed as to the purpose of the inquiry. 
a. Review of files on conm1unist f:;.~ont 0 organi?:ations looking for individuals 
who have been associated with only one or two fronts or who attended only 
a few meetings of a front. Such individuals frequently are innocent of 
communist -propensi:l::i.es, yet they hn.v,\: a basis for cultiYatin1 the 
ariquaintance of party members. The Progressive Party file alno might 
prove a fertile field. 
NW 31B?1 Docld:32989529 Page 1373 
3 
7-15-60 
I 
i I I 
. l 
I -.·· _. - i 
l 
.I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
I I 
I 
