( 
.:,;~CT/'.") 87. SECURI'.l'Y I:IVE3TIGA'rIONS 87D 
·~- . 
If a question of l~w arises as to existence of violation, advise 
BurerLU ~.nd hold lnvestiLration in abey1J.nce until opinion is 
obtained from Dep;., .. rtment. Where the materiality of' tho denial 
or omission indicates a full innistig_ation is not wa1·ra:r.ted, a 
lim5.ted investigation may be co:1ducted; e.g., where denial of 
past International Workers Order (IWO} membership made and files 
show membership in IWO but no participation in its activities. 
However, the Department has advised it is unable to adopt any 
fixed policy as to whether prosecution .is warranted in any . 
parti6ular category of cases of this typo and desires to review 
and consider each case individually. Therefore, the basic facts 
concerning the execution and filing of the document and the sub­
versi vc activity denied should be su:Jm:itted in report fo)·m for 
presentation to the Department, even though the basis for the 
concealment or fraudulent statement docs not appear to be 
·material. 
,· 
\'t ·\ . . 
·.',•'Investigate and report criminal fraud violation (such as. con-
, ·::. ce~.lment of a.rres ts) arising during security-type fraud :i nvos ti­
gatio non same subje6t in conjunction with the investigation of 
the s ecuri ty-tyJH, fraud. J3oth violations will be presented to 
the Department by the Bureau. If, however, the security-type 
fraud investigation is discontinued, handle the criminal fraud 
separately in accordance with section 47 of this manual. Mili­
tary intelligence agencies ofte:::i refer cases for security i nves ti­
gations under Delimitations Agreement in which security-type fraud 
violations also involvecl. If the subversive information does 
• not warrant full security investigation but does indicate a 
possibl~ fraud violation, advise the interested agency the 
Bureau's investigation wi11 be c.irected toward proving the 
possible violation of law and that a~y background investigation 
contemplated by it pursuant to its adfuinislrative responsibili­
ties will not interfere with our investig?.tion. Ad vis I? agency 
any pertinent information developed during our investigation will 
be furnished it and re~uest it to do likewise. ThereKfter, 
immediately inith.te the security matter - fraud against the 
Government investigation. If the subversive information warrants 
full security investigation and also indicates a fr~ud violation, 
advise in.terested agency the Bureau is initiating a full secu:-:·ity 
investigation in conjunction with investiga:tion of the possible 
violation of law and results will_ be furnished it upon receipt. 
Thereafter, immediately institute such an investigation looking 
toward incluston of subject on security index and proving.possible 
yiolation of law. Expedite investigation where military has 
referred case. 
If admissible evidence developed does not warrant submission of 
prosecutive summary report, submit resu'lts of investigation in 
investigative repo~t. 
21 
11-13-62 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 726 
