Women's Bail Fund 
" .... providing legal information for prisoners. 
" .•.. making public the torture these women undergo. 
" .... supporting prison struggles everywhere." 
on April 12, 1971, a second confidential source 
made available a flyer on the Women's Bail Fund which was 
distributed at the National Womens March on the Pentagon on 
April 10, 1971. The flyer captioned, "Victory to the NLF and All 
Oppressed Peoples II states 11women in Vietnam and in the United 
States are fighting for the right to live: for the very right 
to exist •..•. the U.S. is now dotted with concentration camps for 
the poor and non-white: the jails ..... But imprisonment doesnt' 
break the spirit of the sisters in jail. They resist! When denied 
their dignity, they organize and fight back. When one sister is 
beaten they organiz and resist. In the coldest part of winter 
~hen the boilers haa broken down, the women worked in freezing 
temperatures in cold water to do the laundry-not 'because the 
pigs made us do it - but for our ·own beautiful sisters.' ..... we 
Vietnamese, Black, Latin, White and Asian-american women are 
united in our struggle - we share common goals and face a common 
enemy. we express our complete solidarity with the NLF and shall 
work to bring the victory there." 
On May 14, 1971, Special Agents (SAS) of the Federal. 
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) observed a demonstration in front 
of the NYC Women's House of Detention sponsored by the Women•s 
Bail Fund and Youth Against war and Fascism (YAWF). The 
demonstrators chanted slogans calling for release of their 
"sisters II from jail and expressed opposition to a propo·sed move 
of the inmates of the Women's House of Detention from its 
downtown site to the Rikers Island Prison Facility. The 
demonstrators called this proposed move an attempt to isolate 
the "sisters from their supporters." 
By means of a loudspeaker, the demonstrators called to 
several inmates of the House of Detention who appeared in the 
upper storey windows, obtained their names and place of arresto 
This information allegedly was to be used to obtain bail for the 
prisoners in question. Thereafter, several speakers denounced 
the jails as concentration camps and called for the release of the 
11pol:iitical prisoners .. ,L1-n the House of Detention. Among the 
speaWers was Shirlev~aylor of the Women's Bail Fund and a 
form~r inmate of the Women's House of Detention. 
- 2 - CONFIDENTIAL 
NW 88321 Dodd:3298954£ Page 417 
