-19-
• a. Collect intelligence on coup-minded officers; 
'-;,:<::b:. 
•.;· 
Create a coup climate by propaganda, disinformation,'-------, _., 
. I /-/1--,/ 
and terrorist activities intended to provoke the left to Jt}o tJ ""-t, 
give a pretext for a coup; *(Hqs. 611_, October 7, 1970) f~ C-1 ( 
.f I.,, If 6 ,- -r-
0 I::::-
c. Inform those coup-minded officers.that the U.S. Govern-
ment would give them full support in a coup short of direct 
U.S. military intervention. (Hqs. 762, October 14, 1970) 
B. The Chile Task Force 
Because of the highly sensitive nature of the operation, a special 
task force was created in the CIA's Western Hemisphere Division to manage 
The task force was placed under the daily di.rection of the Deputy Direc-
tor for Plans, Thomas Karamessines, and a group of the Agency's most 
experienced and skilled operators were detailed to the task force. 
*A cable sent from CIA Headquarters to Santiago on October 19 focused 
on creating an ~ppropriate justification for a coup. The cable stated: 
1. It still appears that Ref A coup has no pretext or justification 
that it can offer to make it acceptable in Chile or Latin America. It 
therefore would seem necessary to create one to bolster what will prob­
ably be their claim to a coup to save Chile from communisrn ... You may 
wish include variety of themes in justification of coup to military for 
their use: These could include but ire not limited to: A) Firm intel. 
that Cubans planned to reorganize all intelligence services along 
Soviet/Cuban mold thus creating structure for police state .... B)Economic 
situation collapsing .... C)By quick recognition of Cuba and Communist 
countries Allende assumed U.S. would cut off material assistance to 
Armed Forces thus weakening them as constitutional barriers. Would then 
empty armories to Communist Peoples Militia with task to run campaign of 
terror based on alleged labor and economic sabotige (Use some quotes 
from Allende on this.) 
2. Station has written some excellent prop guidances. Using themes 
at hand and which best known to you we are now asking you to prepare 
intel report based on some well known facts and some fiction to justify 
coup, split opposition, and gain adherents for military group. With 
appropriate military contact can determine how to "discover" intel'report 
it. 
............ 
which could even be planted during raids planned-,-·_by. 'c~rabineros. ' -~ 3. We urge you to get this idea and some .concrete suggestions to plot-:'.,Lt\i ~-
ters as soon as you can. Coup should have a justification to prosper. 
(Headquarters 882, 19 October 1970) 
1:· 
lf~:;· 
•<\ y 
-
-
-
