13-00000 
COPY COPY COPY 
-5-
He rather bitterly assailed the United States press 
for what he called their unfair reporting of the revolution 
after he .came to power. I, of course, tried to explain 
that speaking fro~ some personal experience, it was neces­
sary to expect and to learn to take criticism both fair and 
unfair. I would not be surprised if his sensitivity with 
~iticisnir-regard to ~2i~:i:tmt might eventually- lead him to take some 
. • rath.er drastic steps· toward curtailing freedom of the press 
in the future. 
He also spoke rather frankly· about what he felt was 
a '\ery· disturbing attitude on th.e part of the .American press 
and the . .American people generally. His argwnent went along 
this li:.ne: "yours is· a great country· - . ..,... the richest, the 
greatest, the most powerful in the world. Your people, th.ere-
• fore, should oe proud i3-nd confi6lent and happy·. But every­
place I go you seem to be afraid ..... .,. afraid of Coroml.l:hism, 
'afraid that if Cuba has land reform it will grow ·a little 
rice and the market for your rice will pe reduced~- afraid 
that .if Latin America becomes more industrialized American 
factories will not be able to sell as much. abroad as they 
have previously. You in America sh.ould not be talking so 
much about your fear of what the Conununi:_sts may do in Cuba 
or in some other country in Lati.n America, Asia· or Africa -­
y.ou should be talking more about your own strength and the 
reasons why your system is superior to Communism or any 
other kind of dictatorship." 
In my turn of course I tried to explain that we wel­
comed the industrialization and development of Latin America, 
' • that one of our best customers was Canada, for example, 
which was highly industrialized and that as economic conditions 
improved in any country this was not only good for that coun­
try but good:lbr us as well. I also tried to put our atti-
tude toward Communism in context by· pointing out that Connnu­
nism was something more than just an idea but that its agents 
were dangerously effective in their ability to grasp power 
and to set up di.qtatorships. I also emphasized, however, 
that we realized that being against Communism was not enough 
-- that it was even more important that we make it by our 
actions, by what we say and what we do abroad that we con.,... 
vince people every place that we w.ant to help them achieve 
economic progress in a climate of freedom. 
COPY COPY COPY 
1U? 
