SECRET 
Cabello revolt, and handed out heavy jail sentences. 
Some of the defendants had previously been in Cuba. 
One of them, Fabricio Ojeda, who had at one time 
been photographed in Cuban uniform during Cuban army 
maneuvers, was known to have brought back a large 
sum of US currency from Cuba, and had made several 
trips there. He was also the recipient of large 
quantities of Cuban Communist propaganda. 
Venezuelan police early in January raided a 
house registered in the name of a Venezuelan Com­
munist known to have made at least one trip to Cuba, 
and discovered a radio transmitter capable of reach­
ing Cuba. Two Communists were subsequently arrested 
attempting to enter the house. The armed forces 
have also heard a voice radio, which appears to be 
located on the grounds of the Central University in 
Caracas, communicating with another station which they 
believe to be in Cuba. I 
Late last fall a raid on the home of a leader 
in Caracas of the pro-Communist Move~ent of the Revo­
lutionary Left turned up a sheet of ~nstructions for 
procedures in radio communication with Cuba. When 
the man himself was arrested, police \found a radio 
transmitter being carried in the trunk of his car. 
We have received reports from J reliable source 
that Rafael Martinez, head of the Confulunist paramili­
tary apparat (PCV) in Venezuela, aske
1
d Castro last 
September for assistance. Castro rep:ortedly had prom­
ised to give the PCV mortars and other weapons. How­
ever, Castro is reported to have· gi vein Martinez 
$50,000 instead, and offered to train\ some of Martinezv 
men in Cuba. Castro had explained that he was unable 
to offer arms at that time because thb USSR would not 
permit him to do so. Last month (Janbary 1963), it was 
further reported that the wife of Mar~inez, Argelia 
Laya de Martinez, received an additional sum of $6,000 
to finance sabotage operations against North American 
business installatiqns in Venezuela. Mrs. Martinez was 
visiting in Cuba at the time that she received these 
funds. 
-2-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 30 
