- 102 -
It was decided to invest, however, only in Eurodollar bonds that 
were "guaranteed by the Amer-ican parent company. u It was thought 
that "they were a pretty secure investment. 
11 
On occasion, "when 
we got the advice of our economists on the DDI side, we took some 
government paper that they considered -- foreign government paper 
that they considered really a good security." Houston became the 
central figure in this investment scenario: 
More and more I continued on this Board of Direc­
tors as giving basic policy advice. We had long 
discussions on the areas of discussion, what to stay 
away from, what to go into. what it looked like as. 
far ahead as they might think they could see. • And 
more and more I would make the individual decisions 
on my own in light of their policy guidance and with 
the information which my _staff in MUTUAL could get from 
the many friends they now had in various underwriting 
and investment places on an unwitting basis, who just 
thought they were customers. For instance, on the 
Eurodollar bonds, they were dealing with several houses 
who just thought the fellow was another investor coming 
into them and would get very detailed and on the whole 
pretty good advice, which often we could check from 
inside through some other of our sources .... Profits 
from primarily the interest operations were very pro­
fitable. and these built up over the years quite r~pidly 
and were brought into the insurance funding identified 
as profits for future pos~ible use. 
It was always recognized that a policy decision might 
be made at any time that we had funds excess to the 
valid backing up of our underwriting, which would be 
brought back into the government for such disposition 
as might be appropriate at that time. 
In terms of actually providing insurance in the aviation and 
maritime field~ a study would be conducted in each case where in­
surance was required. If 'it looked as though normal commercial in­
surance would handle it, as was the case with most of Air America's 
needs, then the particular entity would go ahead and procure the nor­
mal commercial insurance. If there was something peculiar in the 
operational setup that preclud d commercial.companies from accepting 
m, 50955 Docid:32423532 Page 132 
