07D s,:cunn•y IHVI!STIG 
Arrangcme nt 
This index is to be maintained in two sections, section A and 
section B. Each section will be maintained alphabetically on 
5- by 8-inch cards, 
( a.) Section A 
Sectio?1 A of the reserve index is dcsig"ne·d to represent a 
special group of individuals nho should receive priority 
consideration wi •th r.espect to investi gatio·n and/or other 
.action following the apprehension of security index subjects. 
I. Section A should include those individuals whose sub­
versive activities do not bring them within the security 
index criteria but who, in a time of national emirgency, 
are in a position to influence others against the national 
interes·t or are likely to furnish m~terial financi2.l aid 
to subversive elements due to their subversive associa­
tions and ideology. Include in this secji~n those indi­
viduals meeting the standards for inclusion in the reserve 
index and who fall within the following categories: • 
I
AI Professors, teachers, and -educators 
B Labor union organizers or leaders 
G Writers, lecturers, newsmen, entertainers, and 
others in the mass media field 
(D) Lawyers, dpctors, and scientists 
(E) Other potentially influential persons on a 
local or national level 
(F) Individuals who could potentially f:urnish 
material financial aid 
II. Recommendations for incl1.1.sion of names in the reserve 
index (section A) 
{A) Recommendations for inclusion of·names in section 
A of the :reserve index are to be submitted to the 
Bureau by form FD-122a. A succinct summa,ry setting 
forth the basis for the recommendation should be 
att~ched to the form FD-122a. In addition, if no 
r~port is accompanying the recommendation, a. state­
ment to that effect should appear on the page con­
taining the succinct sum.~ary. 
(B) Upon Bureau approval of recommennation for the 
inclusion of an individual's name in section A of 
thi reserve index, two reserve index cards will ie 
forwarded to the field. [Add]on the reverse side 
·availabl~ desoriptive'data~ One card is to be 
filed in your office~ and one card is to be 
filed away from headquarters city at the same 
loba\ion a~ the extra set of security index cards 
are now stored. 
III. Periodic review of section A of the :- .:.:er-v-e index 
Investigations of indi-viduals li·:~:•:'· -:1. section A of 
the reserve index a.re to be broui.:.,. to date annually 
and considered for security index~~- ~s or retention 
-~n the reserve index. Form FD-154 mai be used for· 
the annual review by amending it for ise in reserve 
index cases. This investigation should include, 
as a minimum: 
(A) Verification of residence and employment 
(B) Indices searc~ and file review to determine 
whether additional inves·tigation is warra1rted 
or whether an interview with the individual 
is desirable 
(c) If additional investigation is cond~cted or if 
there is unreported information of a sub­
versive nature contained in the files, submit 
a. report. 
• 42b 
12-13-61 
NW 38321 Docld:3298952!9 Page 804 
