D. 
( 
( 
S'.. .'IOU 87. SECURITY INY.ESTIGATIG 
• 
' 
• 
El7D 
SECURITY D~ ::~ :;TIGATIOHS OJ!' IUDIVIDUALS 
1. Defini tion.s 
The term "basic revolutionary organization" or "basic revolutionary group" 
when ~..i.sec. hercinafte.r in this subsection ·sc.all apply to any one or all 
of the fo:!.lowing organizations or groups in order to dist'ingui:;h the 
organizations from front prganizations: 
a. Co::.1munist Party, USA 
b. Socialist :forkers Party 
c. Progres_si-ve LB.bor(l'arty] 
a. Prolet:i.ri:in Pa:rty of liI!\{orica 
e _. Nationalis·t; Party of Puerto Ri.co 
t. Johnson-Forest Group 
g.. .Americr.n Socialist Clubs 
h. •.. See also 87G ld. 
2. Res~onsibility of the Bureau . 
a.\' :r'o conduct thoro·ngh. investigation into the background and subversive 
1•:;.'~.ctivities of all persons in the U. S. and Puerto Rico who are 
\ :,;q.angerous or potcntiaJ,ly dangerous to the internal security. "En.ch 
SAC will be held respon~ible tor the .proper inveqtig~tion of all 
persons in his area who, because of mer;,bership or affiliation 
with basic revolu·tionary organizations or other .Narxist revol~itionary 
organizations inclu.cling splinter groups, may be potentially 
dangerous. . 
b". To determine the identities, vrherea.bouts, and activities of individuals 
constituting a threat to the in·ternal security ,rnd develop sufficient 
information and evidence through investigation to sustain appropriate 
action by the Bureau should it become necessary for the Federal 
Government to insti•tute prosecutive action against such ind.ivid-.:i.als 
in courts of law or control their movement and activities in.the 
event of a national emergency 
. 3. Purpose of investigation 
The prim~.ry purpose of these investigations is twofold, namely: 
a. Determination of dangerousness 
To determine the identities, whereabouts, and activities·•of all 
individuals in the U. S. and Puerto Rico who, because of their 
me.mbership in, activity in~ or association wi-l;h one or more of 
the revolutionary groups defined above or related groups, are 
dangerous or potentially dangerous to the internal security of 
the country, and '!:he consequent oolleotion of sufficient information 
concerning their subversive activities .to justify apprehension in· 
event of a national emergency 
b. Determinati·o·n of violations· of Federal statutes 
To determine the identixies, whereabouts, and activities of all 
individuals who ha-:re· been or ~ay be violating laws of the U. S. 
(1.} Direct inyestigat:i.on towards obtaining admissible evide.noe 
to establish the violation. 
( 2} Be alert for any informa.t1on indicating a violat~on of the 
Federal statutes relatin;_cto espionage, sab·otage, and s.~dition. 
(3) Title 18, use,·§ 2385, paragraph (1), prohibits the advocacy, 
etc.,· of forceful or violent overthrow of· the .Government. 
Paragraph .{2) prohibi·ts the printing and distribution of . 
:propag.,_::la advocating the. f·orceful overthrow of the Government. 
{A.ffil1.J.i;ion with an organization is not a prerequisite tc 
prosecution under paragraphs (1) a.nd (2).) Paragra:ph (3) • 
makes it unlawful to organize or help to organize any soc:.ety, 
,etc., of persons who advocate· overthr·o,v of the Government by. 
force or violence, or to be or become a member of or becomo 
affiJ:ia.ted vlith &ny such society knowing the purpos-cs -thereof. 
Conspiracy to Yio~ate this section is co-:rered by Title 1~, USC, 
§ 371 (general conspiracy statute). 
(4} Title 18, USC, § 2387, ?enalizes attempts to undermine t~e 
loyalty, discipline, or morale of the armed forces. Alleged 
violations should be reported im:::eeiately to the Bureau. 
·NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 596 
19 
5-13-65 
