13-00000 
SECRET 
Soviet Union, there's still China, etc .... When Bill 
Harvey came.aboard I have him the same story and the 
same pitch, and I said "Bill, we're going to have to 
come up with better people and the way to do this is 
you go to Dan Debartele"- who was then the Clandestine 
Service Personnel Officer, the big wheel at "Career 
Manglement" as we called it in those days. I said "Get 
from Dan, at each appropriate GS level, GS 9's, l0's, 
ll's, 12's, and so on, right up the line, and get from 
him from each component of the CS, Staffs and 
Divisions, get from him the promotion list from each 
compon~nt, including those that made it and those that 
didn't quite make it but they're near the middle - are 
near the top - and they might make it the next time 
around. It's from those lists that ':"e're going to pick 
our people. I think we can get anybody we want to but 
bearing in mihd there's still a big world out there and 
·the Soviet Union comes first, regardless of what the 
President says about Cuba." Harvey looked at me and 
listened, didn't say a bloody word, and I left. The 
next day when I came back into his office he was 
stacked high with personnel jackets which he had gotten 
from Dan in terms of what I had said. You go and get 
the top lists of who was recommended for what, and you 
pick from those. In addition to that, obviously Harvey 
knew he wanted Ted Shackley down in Miami. He was only 
a GS-14, I think, at the .time he was sent down. I 
think he may have been a GS-13 for all I know. Ted 
knew some of the good people from the Eastern European 
Division, the old EE. That's how we built a different 
kind of a cadre than Jake was forced to take. He had 
some good people, there's no question about that, and 
that, shown in the DDP's rebuttal to the IG report are 
some of the senior officers they had, but they also had 
some guys who were not top notch. I don't have the 
list in front of me now, but I remember when I showed 
Dick Helms .... From the beginning of the'Mongoose 
nonsense, Dick Helms came over to take a look at what 
we had, and this was in December of 1961, when he 
suddenly found- himself being told by McCone, the new 
DCI, that he, Helms, was now McCone's man on Cuba. 
That was told to him, by McCone, at a morning staff 
meeting up in the Director's office. At which, my 
boss, Goshen Zogby (we were ·still Branch 4 but it was 
Cuba and all the Caribbean Islands and Zag was there) 
our Branch Chief at a morning DCI staff meeting, was 
most unusual. But anyway, he was there and he told me 
the story about how Helms looked like a thunderbolt had 
hit him when McCone said, "By the way you're my man on 
Cuba." Just like that. Helms, who had stayed awaV 
from the Bay of Pigs (I'm still on your question) and 
he was right to do that, I think, because he wasn't 
going to get anywhere with Bissell in charge, he knew 
8 
SECRET 
