14-00000 
( 
6 December 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Meeting with The President - 9:45 - 6 December 1963 
The first part of the meeting involved a discussion with Rusk, 
McNamara, Rostow, William Bundy and McGeorge Bundy concerning 
the procedures on MLF. 
Rusk requested, and received, approval to brief General 
Eisenhower and will arrange to have Amb. Merchant, Admiral Ricketts 
and General Goodpastor present at the briefing. Rusk reported that a 
group of "young Republicans" opposed the MLF. • 
Rusk also received approval to brief certain Congressional 
leaders in small groups, but to intimate that no government, including 
the United States Government, is committed to the MLF program. 
q~ 
IBusk gave an optimistic report on progress and stated the 
most important objectives of the MLF was to give the Germans a sense 
of participation in nuclear weapons planning and operations under a 
scheme providing adequate control by other Allied nations, including 
the United States .;J • 
(!:,icNamara stated that J,~ von Hassel had advised him that the 
MLF was a "must" or else-the Germans would undoubtedly pursue an 
independent course in developing their own national nuclear weapons 
resources. Rusk indicated that failure to proceed with the MLF might 
force a German-French arrangement on nuclear weapons. McNamara 
stated there was no military requirement for the MLF but the force 
will have a military (?) utility and will permit a reduction in 
planned United States national capabilities and hence the cost, which is 
considerable, is not really an additional U.S. military cost;] 
The President then suggested a briefing of Congressional 
leaders, both Democratic and Republican, Senate and House, substantially 
along the lines of the NSC briefing of yesterday afternoon.Ll, brought up tJc? 
the question of security and pointed out the dangers. The President 7 Z> 
asked that I develop a 10 or 15 minute briefing on Soviet strategic 
capabilities, Soviet defense and Soviet economy, going just as far as I 
possibly could without endangering sources and methods_;] 
ACTION: Discuss with Cline, et al. 
