6B D PART II 
SECTION 6 •. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, _AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
d. [Deleted] 
4. Each office must submit to the Bureau annually at least three suggestions 
for articles, identifying the suggested author, and-briefly describing 
·the nature of the suggested article. The article should not be prepared, 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any general or specific sub­
ject of law enforcement interest, including the following: 
a. Better investigative or administrative me.thods and techniques of 
any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI National 
Academy men 
b. Improved or unusual equipment being used 
c. Complicated, unusual, and well-handled cases which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems and excellent police work 
d. Human interest items· from local police work 
e. Police and firearms training subjects 
f. Crime prevention articles from dep.artments which have taken aggressive 
action to combat juvenile delinquency 
·g. Transmit all material to the Bureau under the caption: 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research (Crime Records) 
C_. SPEE CHES 
1. Bureau is to be notified of all speaking e·ngagements. Speaking engage­
ments are to be handled by the SAC. If he cannot handle them, the .A.SAC 
should. If neither can, an .A.gent previously approved as a speaker is 
I 
to be designated and the Bureau advised U.A.CB. Changes in speaking engage­
ments must be communicated promptly to the Bureau. Three weeks prior to 
any radio or television appearance, a manuscript of the remarks must be 
submitted for the Bureau's review and approval unless previously approved 
Bureau material is utilized or the program is of an impromptu nature and 
time does not p'ermit prior Bureau approval. In some other cases involv-
ing important speeches, the Bureau will specifically request such manu- ) 
scripts. If speech is to be broadcast or televised, prior Bureau approval 
of manusc~ipt and com.~itment must be obtained. These regulations, as 
well as a].1 o-t11er FBI administrative procedures, should not be the sub-
ject of comment to the public. 
2. Copy of Bureau letter approving speaker should be placed in his field 
personael file. 
3. -~ach office is to designate a supervisor to handle speech material. 
To this supervisor must be routed law enforcement bulletins, FBI Notes, 
interesting case material, magazines, research literature, and newspaper 
clippings containing information of value to police instructors and· 
approved speakers. This material to be indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in the speech material fileso 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write~ups of interesting cases may be: 
a. Requested by the Bureau 
b. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c. SuJgested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a. l'lajor importance 
b. Public interest 
c. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d. Hovel investigations of human interest 
. 3. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b. Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c, Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
a. .Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
f. I~ chronological or logical order, with all dates definite _)· 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1042 
2 
ll-27-70 
