14-00000 
( ( 
\. 
2 
principal soft spots among free world countries appeared 
at the present time to be Canada, the U.K. and Spain. The 
President requested a memorandum setting forth specifics 
concerning leaks of economically strategic items from these 
three countries together with recommendations as to what 
could be done to stop these leaks. He requested Under 
Secretary Ball to prepare to make demarches to the govern­
ments of these three countries as well as any others 
engaged in the Cuba trade contrary to our interests. He 
appeared particularly interested in the subject of econo­
mic denial and returned to it several times. 
3. After hearing a brief description of our progress 
in connection with promoting disaffection among the Cuban 
military, the President said that it did not seem to him 
that we had gone very far along this line and that one 
day those concerned in Cuba matters, including himself, 
would have to face the "grand jury" ·(of domestic public 
opinion) to account for our progress in our attempts to 
find a solution to the Cuban situation. I pointed out 
that the program being presented was, with the exception 
of the economic denial item, entirely a covert program and, 
if run at full capacity, would tax the capabilities of the 
clandestine services -- in other words, that if new and 
broader measures against Cuba were to be undertaken, they 
would have to be within the overt field. 
4 0 After a brief description of the sabotage and 
harassment program the subject of the proposed Matanzas 
raid was discussed. After hearing the pros and cons the 
President stated that he did not feel that the present time 
was a good one to conduct an operation of this magnitude 
which carried a less than 50 percent chance of success. He 
said that he felt that such an operation, if pinned directly 
on the U.S., might cause the Soviets to move in the wrong 
direction with respect to Cuba, i.e, increase their econo­
mic aid or their military presence. Recognizing that a 
cessation of raids would have a bad morale effect within 
Cuba, he agreed that low risk operations, with admittedly 
lower economic and psychological impact, should be con­
ducted. He further stated that planning for such opera­
tions as Matanzas should be continuedo General Wheeler 
raised the possibility of air strikes against major targets 
by autonomous groups. This was discussed and it was agreed 
that in view of the fact that preparations would take at 
least three months, these preparations should proceed and 
the question re-examined at the time that capabilities have 
been perfected. 
-. ~ ., .. -...,. 
- • J 1 
' l ~ _I J 
