3. The .ibove has been accomplished in addition to Kent's 
initially assigned responsibilities for close support of the 
~OC programs of two very active divisions, Latin America and 
Africa. This task calls for experienced and tactful direct 
cooperation with the :-;oc referents and senior operation:,; 
officers in the divisions concerned. Ordinarily, such area 
division iOC responsiLility would be a full-time job for an 
officer of this Branch. Kent handles this assigament, as well 
as his development of the referrals pro~ram, with dispatch and 
poise. 
4. Kent's recent fitness reports will indicate his out­
standing qualities. They include an enormous and enthusiastic 
capacity for work, a fine and precise writing ability, a 
genuinely rare imagination and a willingness to move far beyond 
the daily work requirements to get his job done, or to increase 
the value of his assigned task. This officer is constantly on 
the move to devise new and cff~ctive means of enhancing the 
nonofficial cover program. Ile has proven a patient and 
syrapathetic guidance counsellor for numhers of officers either 
in t;1e '.l!OC program or those interested in it. It is to his 
credit primarily that we have cre3tc<l the referrals system 
which not only coordinates the reassignment of \OC personnel 
across division lines to appropriate new arcc1s and opportunities, 
hut also serves ~s a central clearing h0usc fur personalities 
who indicate interest in working for CI~ in an non staff capacity. 
5. Kent's 1>rimary area of operational experience has been 
Latin ,\rne:rica, including years of \t)C officer status. A look 
at his file revenls over a half Jozen commendations for unusual 
service and initiative. Linguistically he speaks native Spanish, 
very good Italian and some French. He has a supervisory ability 
far above the average, and has a highly developed diplomatic 
skill in his pursuit nf new operational and staff goals which 
has stood him wcl l on countless occa~i.ons. fle i;; a harmonious 
and cooperative work colleague. Clearly he i a most unusual 
onc1·ations officer ~ho has mastered staff skills and abilities 
t.iJ the; point 1-.hcre lie is capable of taking on a wide spectrum of 
future lielJ or ilcad,1uarter:, ass i g,1mPnts. 
