I -
; i 
9 
., :·. CLAIRE L. BROWN PAGE 2 
LANDLORD-TENANT INVESTIGATOR, City of Alexandria, Alexandria, Virginia. 
Served as liaison between landlords and tenants in disputes, and as an authority 
on Virginia housing regulations. Achieved recognition for outstanding negoti­
ations between a tenant and the Virginia Power Co. (VEPCO). Resolved problems 
dealing with rent increases, utility bills, and the absence of landlord-tenant 
• contract-provided services.· (1975) 
:_ STAFF ASSISTANT, Senator Hennan Talmadge (Ga.), Washington, D.C. Helped to edit 
the final vqtume of the Watergate Report, and assisted with bookkeeping concerns 
on the Watergate Committee. Drafted legislative correspondence for the Senate 
JAgriculture
1
Committee in response to constituent requests. (1974) 
I 
ASSISTANT LEGISLATIVE AIDE & CASEWORKER, Congressman Gus Yatron (Pa.), Wash., D.G . 
. Investigated and responded to constituent co~cerns in legislation, and to their 
• problems with social security and:.black lung disability benefit? .. (1974) .• ·:·· .. :·~~·.·.· 
SCHOOL LIBRARIAN, DeKalb County School System, Decatur, Georgia. Achieved 
recognition both locally and system-wide for implementing the "open-library" 
concept in media centers. Responsible for all reference, acquisitions, cataloging, 
• and processing of materials. Member of curriculum planning connnitte~s for all 
subjects, grades 1-7 and planned course curriculum content for library training. 
Supervised, managed, and trained a large staff, analyzed school and community 
needs, and held budget conferences with administrators. Designed and implemented 
all policies within the library, prepared bibliographies, and conducted special 
research projects for the principal and led seminars for librarians. (1970-1974) 
GRADUATE ASSISTANf, to the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, School of 
Education, Boston University, Boston, Mass. Collected and organized statistical 
data used-in evaluating various programs at the University, drafted and edited 
documents, and served as coordinator for public relations activities in relation 
to the University's centennial celebration. (1969-1970) 
TEAo-IER, Columbus Public School S stem, Columbus, Ohio. Taught all subjects in 
the inner-city to low-income 2nd 3rd graders. Worked with different Federal low­
income programs and officials, including ESEA, Title I, and Headstart. (1969) 
ASSOCIATIONS AND HONORS 
Georgia Association of Educators 
American Library Association 
pi Lambda Theta, National Education Honor Society 
Dean's List 
Alumni Associations of Ohio State and Boston Universities 
Member and active participant in the Smithsonian Institute and the Kennedy Center 
HOBBIES AND INTERESTS 
Travel, Current Events, Photography, Guitar, and Reading 
·-•·······-·- ····•···-·-·-········· ............ - .. ·-··· ············---·. ···--····-···-·····•····--· ·-·· j 
References upon request 
r--- -- . 
I 
\ 
\ 
