( 
( 
sz:-::TioN 107. lcUR.ITY INFORMA}TTs MTD coNFIDDi,AL SOURCES 107S 
8. Instruct each int€:rested B,n•ea1.1 office which hp,s made further dis­
semin-ation of such information to follow the instructions set forth 
a. 1,ove. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
J..: -10 set up a co· ~~rol file regarding this correcti-ve action, and. upon 
c-,· .':>letion of samJ submit to the Bureau a final letter under the in­
for;ent• s caption identifyi~g each case by title, character; Bureau file, 
where known, and date of communi.cation. 
This letter will be usec1. to check all per·!;inent Buren,u_files to see 
that necessRry corrective action has been taken in each instance. 
If necessl:'ry, other field offices which h.we received information from 
the informan·l; should also be request-;d t; submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been made. 
It is imperative that all infoTI"lation from the informant be correctly 
labeled ancl great care must be taken to see that this is done. 
Occasiona,lly, an ex-informant through his speech, writings 1 or 2.ctions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was kn 
tnforwant. It is not necessary to g6 back and change the evaluRtion of 
the information attributed to that individual in the absence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was a.n informant, 
riissemination of information from sources ~f questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations, 
T, CLASSIFICATION - 134 
U. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved, 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnishe'd, 
c. The abbreviation "CS 11 may be used in intra-Bureau c-ommunications 
[ for confidential source;[e.g., "Richard Roe, CS."] Communications 
relating to espionage and foreign nationality matters should in 
ad.di tion have a character indicating the· country involved; e.g., 
IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential source, 
the abbreviation "CS" is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS NY-000-S. 
[ e. Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from the 
[ series of numbers used for your security, racial, and criminal 
informants. 
3. Index 
a. Index cards on form l?D-348 like those prepared for informantR must 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant index, 
racial informant index, or the security informant index, depending on 
the type of information furnished. 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the symboJ index on inform-
ants. • 
c. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
criminal informant index, racial informant index, and the securi~y 
informant index if the source furnishes information of value in these 
types of investigations. 
4. Files 
When active investigation is initiated relatiYe to an individual who 
has potential as a security confidential source, a 134 classification· 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to de7elop the individual are discontinued. Files may be opened 
on confidential sources in criminal matters in a manner identical with 
that for handling criminal informant files in the discretion of the 
{ SAC. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1606 
27 
7-14-64 
u 
