13-00000 
l 
.. SECRET 
FYES ONLY 
- 2 -
cti 
:; Golonel Steakley said that from the JCS point of view, such 
/ feints might represent a tactical advantage, in that they could 
.1 divert enemy defenses from actual operations. On the other hand, 
the JCS procedures are designed so as not to be provocative in 
connection with peripheral and BOW TIE missions. He felt that this 
proposal, which is .frankly designed to be provocative, could have 
the effect of inducing quicker and more intensive reaction to the 
JCS flights. 
On the understanding that the feint activities would be closely 
coordinated with military missions in the area, it was agreed that 
the proposed program should be tried for the month of May. At the 
end of this period, a report on the results will be made to the 
Special Group;] . • 
4. (!;ow-Level Reconnaissance, Cuba Cf~ 
The DCI said the USIB unanimously reaffirmed yesterday the 
priority intelligence requirements for low-level coverage of Cuba. 
Mr. Bundy added that there is high-level interest in reviewing this 
situation. 
Mr. Johnson said that in the view of the Bureau of Inr~lligence 
and Research of the State Department, the Soviets would interpret 
a restnnption of low-level flights as an indication of the adoption 
by the U.S. of a harder line toward Cuba. More significantly, 
Ambassador Thompson is very much opposed to such resumption at this 
time; he feels that this could result in a reduction in the rate of 
withdrawal of Soviet troops or a Soviet decision to withdraw none at 
all in the future, and it might affect Soviet policy in Laos in a 
manner adverse to u. s. interests. The importance of the Harriman \. 
mission with respect to this last proposition was noted. Mr. Johnson 
said we should know the results of the Harriman mission in a day or 
• two. 
It was agreed that the matter would be discussed with higher 
• authority t~i~ after~~on;J _ 
--· 
5. Proposed New Policy and Program toward Cuba 
Mr. McCone opened the discussion of this topic by pointing out 
that the overt and multilateral pressures now being applied to Cuba 
are useful; on the other hand, while they will slow Castro down they 
will not hurt him critically, and the interest of our allies in 
maintaining such pressures will almost certainly erode as time passes. 
Similarly, any sabotage program can hurt the Castro government, but 
not lethally; and in order to be effective at all, it must be done on 
" .. C"""T ~t ?it 
EYES ONLY 
