[ 
NW 
107N 0 SECTION 107. lCURITY nn-oRw.NTs .. mn coNFIDn, ·;AL soURcEs 
. -
proteot his security. Fellow members of the ptin~nt subversive 
organization may be aware of his unemployment status and ~rnuld expect 
him to apply. Where a state requires notification of Bureau payments 
to informants that would r.ecessitate disclosure of their identity, 
-then Bu.re~u payments sho~:a be discontinued du.ring the period they 
receive unemployment compensation benefits. 
Handling money and property r~ceivea by double agents 
a. Double agents mu.st turn over to the Bureau any money or property 
received from their principals in connection with the double agent 
intelligence operation. This should be made clear to the double 
agent at the inception of the op~r~tion (consider obtaining a signed 
statement to this effect). Exbeptions to this rule must be specifi­
cally approYed by the Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements must 
be m~de for payments to double agents for services rendered to the 
Bureau. 
b, Any money or property receiv~d by a double· agent from his principal 
-represents possible future evidence and the double agent should 
execute a statement describing the money received by type of currency, 
denomination, series of issue, and seria,l number and appropriately 
describing any other property received, This statement should be 
signed by the double age:•t 1 s code 'name. 
c, Money or property recei· . .: from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance ;, ·.11 section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
d. Bureau -Agents receiving such money or property fr.om double agents 
should make independent records for rete,ntion for "purposes of refresh­
ing recolleotion in the event testimony is later necessary. 
0. SEMLUHWAL LETTER 
A semiannual letter should be submitted to the Bureau by each office ·as 
follows: 
1, List the symbol numbers of all security informants and confidential 
. sources being paid for services or expenses on a regular basis, If such 
confidential source has no symbol number, list his name. 
2 0 Also list Jche symbol numbers of all unpaid security informants. 
3, Set forth any CO!l'.ments concerning the present status of the informant 
coverage of the office, together with information concerning what actions 
are being taken to improve the security informant coverage. 
4. As a separate section of the semiannu:;,.l letter, list under 11Hea.aqu.arters 
City 11 and each resident agency all subversi-ve orgc>.nizations broken aown 
into ea.oh aiv-5.sion and unit thereof, such- as olubs, commit·l;ees, and 
chapt11rs, 
Under each unit the appro:dmate membership, together 1•ri th the symbol 
numbers ana positions of security informants affording coverage, should 
be se-l; out, Where no informant coverage exists or where coverage is 
provided by inform~.nts or 3ources who are not members, such factors should 
be shm-m rela·tiYe to each uni-t. 
Semiannual letters may include any additional pertinent information re 
informant coverage that m~.y be helpful in o-ver--all eval ua.tion, such -as 
:i.nforrnants in other divisions nho are occasionally utilized and highly 
placed informants vrho furnish ,srea-wlde, national, or international 
information, 
22 
6-13-61 
) 
