13-00000 
Mr. T. Jeremy Gunn 
than 31 additional boxes of materials being sent for review; . 
Included within this material were 19 boxes of JFK working 
files based on the sequestered collection, two boxes on 
Nosenko, seven boxes of LA Division documents and three 
boxes from the Bay of Pigs period. Not all of this material 
is related to the JFK story; and in some boxes only a few 
folders had anything to do with the assassination or,~vents 
surrounding it.· To date, the ARRB staff has designated __ 
approximately 22-boxes of this material as assclssinatio~- : j 
records. In addition, aoout 400 pages of material from an -­
FOIA request for minutes of the DCI's morning meetings which 
related to JFK were added to the collection. The search for 
documents is a continuing effort. Guidelines for this 
effort have been sent to Agency individuals and components 
which review documents and materials in the course of their 
work. 
REVIEWS 
c. Historical.Review Group, now the Historical Review 
Program, reviewed boxes 1 through -63 of - the sequestered· --•• --
collection and- the Oswald 201 file and released most of the 
documents· therein either in full or in sanitized form:to the 
National Archives in August 1993. The total nwnber of pages 
released by CIA prior to or du.ring August 1993 was 
approximately 123,000. :An additional release of j; 
approximately 30,000 pages of HSCA material from the 
sequeste·red collection was made in 1995.. - ' 
d. Box 64 of the sequestered collection contained 72 
reels of microfilm primarily dealing with Directorate of 
Operations materials and Office of Security files. In 
addition there'were 22 reels of 201 files on 151 
individuals. Following release of the main collection in 
August 1993, HRG staff members reviewed the microfilm files 
~· and released approximately 74,000 pages of material to the 
National Archives either in full or in sanitized form. 
e. The status of HRP's review of additional records 
and re-review of the sequestered collection will be 
addressed in regular progress reports to the ARRB staff. 
REQUESTS FOR ADDITI0NAL_REC0RDS AND INFORMATION 
f. The Agency maintains a rather unique and non­
integrated files system which precludes a single query on~a 
particular subject and the expected response from the files 
2 
