- SECRET 
this level of activity is not the sort of thing that 
will bring down the government unless the president 
or other high officials are ·assassinated. The FALN 
has not reached a point where it stands up to the 
armed forces, or seizes and holds government build­
ings. 
We believe that Cuba has given guerrilla train­
ing to more nationals from Venezuela than from any 
other country. Our estimate is that more than 200 
Venezuelans received such training in 1962. Many of 
these are engaged in terrorism in the cities, and 
others were rounded up and given long prison sentences 
when they committed themselves prematurely last spring 
in a countryside where the rural population strongly 
supports the Betancourt administration. One of our 
best penetrations of the Communist Party in Venezuela 
tells us that at present the unified command has less 
than 150 guerrillas in the field, in widely separated 
groups of 15 to 25 men each. 
II. The Cuban Plan 
For the past year Cuban spokesmen have been push­
ing the l~ne that Cuba provides the example for Latin 
American revolution, with the implication that nothing 
more than guidance needs to be exported. Castro ac­
tually sounded the keynotes for Cuban subversion on 
July 26, 1960, when he said, "We promise to continue 
making Cuba the example that can convert the Cordillera 
of the Andes into the Sierra Maestra of the American 
1 continent.II In his speech on 15 January 1963 Castro 
said.that if "Socialism" in Cuba had waited to over­
turn Batista by peaceful means, Castro would still be 
in the Sierra Maestra. For the past three months, 
Che Guevara and Education Minister Armando Hart, both 
in public speeches and in remarks to visi·tipg Com­
munists which have been repeated to us, have been in­
sisting that what they call "Socialism" can achieve 
power in Latin America only by force . 
. The Cuban effort at present is far more serious 
than the hastily organized and ill-conceived raids that 
the bearded veterans of the Sierra Maestra led into 
such Central American countries as Panama, Haiti, Nic­
aragua and the Dominican Republic during the first 
-3-
SECRET 
NW -~095.~ Docld.: 32424709 Page 9 
