87D 
(6) 
SECT SECURITY INVESTIGATION~ 
• 
(b) Data to appear on separate attached card 
Io The following data must be placed on a separate 
card to be attached to reverse side of the security 
index care being filed in the geographical, special, 
or unavailable sections., Data will not be attached to 
the security index card filed in the alphabetical 
section., These cards conta:in printed captions to 
assist in recording the descriptive information. 
Captions are not a:il-inclusive and should be augmented 
by other.data required. 
(A) ·Comp_lete des cripti.on 
(B.) No·tation that security index flash notice has been 
si.·1 ·:ii tted for posting in Identification Divis·ion 
{CD) P: ··.ograph, with date taken placed below 
{} &a~gerous characteristics of subject, including 
notation if subject possesses.firearms 
•• (E) Other df. :_;, which will· assist in effecting appre- . 
hens ion , :' subject, such as directions to residence 
or employment, where subject not situated in usual 
locations, listing of number of minor children 
and aged dependenti 
II. If descriptive data have not been obtained, case must 
be kept pending and investigation conducted t~ develop 
this information.. Upon pos'ting o;f .. s·.ecu·r.i ty index flash 
.. notices in s·ecuri ty index cases, the field will be 
.-.,_;·-::~::·:· :::-furnished· the FBI number and r°ingerprint classification 
•• -· which should 'be affixed to reverse side of the security 
index cards filed in geographical, special and unavail­
able sections. 
Ille Form FD-186 is used for purpose of compiling informa·l;ion 
to be posted on the separate card attached to back of 
the security index card filed in the geographical section 
of index. Form may be filled in by the Agent handling 
the case in legible handwriting and forwarded .to c·lerical 
employee designated to post this information on the 
attachment to the geographical$ special or unavailable 
sections. After.the security index card has been pre­
pared at. ~ureau and sent to field and information appear-
• ing on FD-186 has been posted on the card to be attached, 
it shall be filed in the investigative case file. 
Fll--186 may also be used to record information that a 
s,>.rnrity index subject has been physically observed 0 
D~scriptive data developed during observation of the 
subject should be noted on FD-186 for posting. 
.Arrangement of the security index 
(a.) At Bureau 
The entire security index-is maintaiµed at the Eureau 
through the utilization of IBM tabulating cards. The 
white 5- by 8-inch security index cards are print~d by this 
machine and tr~msmi tted to the ·field e Through the use 
o±: this device, the security index can be broken down 
into the various ca·tegories of information appearing on 
the security index c!l.rds when such b:reakdowns become necessary 
for adm:i.nistrative purposes at the Bureau. This proceduro. 
• makes it possible to maintain the content of the security 
index in the field and at the Bureau in an identical con­
dition at all t:i.meso 
An alphabetical breakdown of the true names and all aliases 
of security index subjects is also maintained at the Bureau 
for administrative purposeso 
.. ·~·_:1\ 
-~-:~ :, 
NW 31B21 Oocld:32989529 829 
50 
11-8-55 .,. 
.. 
' > ) : \ ,._., 
~~ 
