-------- • 
~'-----
DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING UNITED STATES 
POLICY IN VIETNAM, WASH-INGTON, D.C., 
JANUARY 15, 1968 
INFORMATION CONCERNING (INTERNAL SECURITY) 
Source one advised that Joyce Angus is on the Executive 
Committee of WSP. • 
Source three advised in July, 1955, that Mary Clarke 
was dropped from Los Angeles County Com.munist Party 
(LACCP) in the Spring of 1955 for personal reasons 
and not for any political differences with LACCP. 
Source one further reported that Glory Roberts of 
Pacoima, California, who is editor of the "Social Action 
Com.municator", a monthly publication located in Pacoima, 
California, recording secretary of the Peace Action Council (PAC) 
(See Appendix), and representative to the PAC from the Black 
Congress and vice versa, was selected as Chairwoman of a JRB 
com.mittee to reach into the black com.munity to get participants 
from the Black ghetto involved in the demonstration in 
Washington, D.C. on January 15, 1968. Source one advised that 
in order to do this, all the organizations comprising the 
JRB will have to pledge money to get the women to Washington, D.C. 
and back to Los Angeles, California. 
Source one stated that three committees have been 
established within the JRB. One of these committees has 
been established to ·draw up a list of redress of grievances. 
Each branch of the JRB throughout the_ nation will, when 
gathered in Washington, DeC. as a main committee, decide 
the major grievances and the redress of grievances will be 
incorporated into a petition to be presented to Congress. 
The second committee will be to involve the people in the 
black com.munity in the demonstration. The third com.mittee is 
to act as a co0rdinating com.mittee. 
Source one further advised 1~ was reported that 
the women from Southern California will leave by plane on 
Sunday, January 14, 1968 at approximately 10:00 A.M., arriving 
Washington, D.C. at approximately 6:00 P.M. on the same date. 
No definite information was availabie yet regarding the 
airlines on which the women would be flying. The cost per 
person will be $216. This amount will be paid by money 
received from pledges, some individuals will pay part of 
their expenses with the remainder coming from the pledges, 
.-. - .,.. 
' . 
- 4 -
; IL,,~ t 
l 1' • • • • • '" 
NW 88321 Docld:32989544 Page 147 
