( 
( 
SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS .AND CONFID.IAL SOURCES l07E - F 
4. Recording investigati ye acti vi"l:,y 
.All in-vestiga'tive activity must be made a matter of record in the field 
office files with all s ouroes of information being completely id•en·l;ified. 
Sources include all confidential informants - criminal, security,[and racial.] 
.Agents must not ha-ve and use informants known only to the indi-vidual 
.Agents personally. 
F. INDOCTRINATIONP DIRECTION, AND CONTROL OF SECURITY INFORM.ANTS 
1. Caution against divulging relationship 
a. During initial development ancl consistently thereafter, impress 
upon informant the absolute ~ecessity that he refrain.from ~ivulging 
through any media any information regarding his relationship with 
Bureau. 
b. These instructions must be properly worded and phrased t9 prevent 
any possibility Bureau's being accused of attempting to impose 
censorship. 
2. Developing additional background 
a. During development of informant, additional data concerning his 
background should be continuously obtained from informant. 
b . .After gaining informa.nt 1 s confidence, information will be elici"l:,ed 
which may be pertinent to his operation and may have effect upon 
his re·l;ention, such as da·l;a revealing he is mentally or emotionally 
unstable, -or has some personal problem which wou-ld make him a. risk 
as an informant. 
3. Handling indications of instability 
a. Details of any indications of instability should be furnished to 
the Bureau immediately upon being obtained, with recommendations as 
to informant's continuance. 
b. Set forth the s·!;eps being taken to prevent any embarrassment to 
Bureau: 
4.• Contacts by Agents 
a. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters wheie the 
frequency of contact is dependent on the circumstances of each 
case, informants should be contacted as often as necessary, but 
at least one personal co~tact should be made every two weeks. 
b. If such frequent contacts cannot be established, obtain specific 
Bureau authority for an exception.to this requirement (except in 
espionage and foreign :r;iationali.ty matters}. In requesting such 
exception, set forth all attendant circumstances. 
c .. During each contact, informantrs activities since previous contact 
should be carefully revi·ewed and the contacting Agent should make 
certain the informant has furnished in writing or verbally all 
information and da·l;a -which he has qbtained- since the last contact. -
If additio~al D~ supplementary information ~s f~rnished during this 
contact with the informant, this information should be handled in ·!;he 
same manner· as outlined in subsection G. 
d. Contacting .Agent should become so well acquainted with informant 
that he will not breach the confidential relationship. If there 
is slightest indication informant may do so~ Agent should oe able 
to anticipate _this action and forestall it. 
e. Contacting Agent ~hould not onJ.y collect information but also direct 
informant, be aware of his a(tivities, and maintain such close rela~ 
tionship tha:t he , knows how in:formant is thinking with regard to 
Bureau connection. This relationship should not be so reciprocal 
that informant obtains information concerning Agent or .Agent's 
business, personal or official. 
f. Good judgment must pre-vail in handling informant to see he does not 
become too familiar with Agent and later cause embarrassment to 
.Agent or Bureau by using for his own advantage such knowledge which 
he may ob.tai n. 
g. Promptly advise Bureau of any indication informant is wavering in 
Bureau relationship. 
7 
1-13-64 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1563 
