";"" 
·I 
l 
.l 
l 
I 
·l 
I . 
j 
I 1 
,1 
'l 
\ 
I 
, J 
. •· • 
agencies. Such records also enable the FBI to furnish additional 
copies of investigative reports or other information that has 
been disseminated--·should additional copies be needed by the 
original recipients or by other official agencies. Furthermore, 
the information contained in these files often proves of 
assistance in future investig·ations. 
Less obvious may be the reasons why the FBI retains 
the third category of information about Congressmen and 
Senators (data that has neither been investig·ated nor 
disseminated by the FBI) cited on page 7. 
If such information is of an· administrative nature--
that is, if the information indicates the lawmaker is interested 
in a specific FBI .investigation, a specific area of the FBI's 
jurisdiction, or specific FBI policies, practices and procedures-­
it is filed for: 
(1) the information and advice of FBI employees in 
connection with future contacts or correspondence with that 
Congressman or Senator; 
(2) consideration~of FBI personnel in connection 
with poi;;sible future changes in FBI policies, practices, and 
procedures. 
If th~ information is of a p·ersot1a·1 nature--that is, 
if it reflects upon the loyalty, character, or integrity of a 
lawmaker--it is i~cluded in FBI files for the following reasons: 
(1) The information may prove of value when a 
p:i;esent or former Congressman or Senator is considered ·for 
a position in the Executive or J·udicial Branch of Government 
which requires that the FBI conduct a background inv.estiga­
tion of him. 
(2) The.information could prove of value in 
solving future crimes committed against the Congressman or 
Senator--or against members of that lawmaker's family. 
(A person who berates and defames a lawmaker would be a 
logical suspect if that lawmaker--or another Congressman 
or Senator whose views coincide with his--becomes the 
target of actual or threatened violence.) 
(3) The information could aid the FBI in solving 
crimes committed against other persons. (For example, the 
handwriting, typewriting, stationery, and/or distinctive 
- 9 -
Docld:3298!Mi24 216 
