S-E-C-R-E=T 
Sac'W."'ity Information 
techniques for the penetration or en.erny domestic radio broadcasting 
services might well enable us to overcome the handicaps imposed by 
the jamming of our conventional. bro.ad.casts to the Soviet orbit and 
seize the cold war initiative in the radio sphere. It is a field 
which has been neglected thus -far .. 
. .· Soioo possibilities in this area are described 
in the "Pi~ t TroY" report of the Massachuse~ts Institute of 
Technology Vol. IV, Annex 26) of l February, 1951.. . 
Among them ia,the "intrusion," or "side-..band 
injection/v technique which was used successfully by the Russi.[ll'ls 
against Ge:miany during World War II o It would enable us to intrude 
_our own prop?,ganda merasages int.o radio programs being broadcast on • 
•. ene."lly • h<lllle ihannels. It would enable us in effect to talk to the 
Soviet,· ·satellite and neutral radio audiences over enemy facilities 
. or compel· the enemy to disrupt his own broadcast servic.e in an etforl. 
to prevent it.., .It· could also .be used in turning Soviet propaganda 
broadcasts to Western Europe to the advantage of our friends Q • The Troy 
report obeenes as to· the technique itself: 
. W'fhis would be an effective and annoying 
technique which.would be extremely diff'icult. to counter., 11 
Utlliza.tion·of.this technique appears.to be 
withinourcapabilities a.t the moment .. It has been .fiel,.d tested 
/ 
. and is ready for use a.a soon as the necessary technical adaptations 
can be made to conventional transmitterso The time and cost involved 
in mounting a facility for utilizing this technique is now being 
'en..1)1.ored by ADCO at the suggestion of this of'ticeo 
Another unconventional technique being devel-
oped bya.n agency consultant and now almost ready for field .testing 
is the so-called "cuddling" device. Th:i.s operates on the theory that 
we ean transmit an interfering signal into an orbit domestic radio 
service which will cause the listening audience to shift to our 
nearby program in endeavoring to tune out the interference on his 
otm • home program" • 
Other unconventional means ot careyingthe 
cold war to the Orbit by means of clandestine radio might be cap­
able of invention a.nd development and the seie~tific and practical 
potentialities in this field d be explored to the utmosto 
This of'fice is conv~ced that emphasis must 
be placed more and more on unconventional radio broadcasting tech­
niques i.f the eold war of the air _waves is not to /become more one­
sided than it already is in f'avor of the Camnunistso Properly devel­
oped and utilizoo., those techniques already perfected or in the pro­
cess of perfection and those·which might be invented might even be 
the means of 
NW .5095.5 Docld.: 32424022 Page 12 
