.j 
l 
·I 
At 10:50 AM, the women marched to the steps on the 
First Street side of the L~3 A~~eles City Hall for a second 
ral.ly. A count made as the demonstrators marched between the 
Old State Buildinc and the City Hall revealed that 250 
adult Caucasians {majority of whom were women dressed in • 
black:), and eight nori:-Caucasian adults were involved, plus 
some youngsters and infants. The mother of one of the children 
had a cardboard sign, depicting a bomb and -the captio.n, 
11
I 'm 
Glad I'm Not Vietnamesen, strapped to the back of her son who 
appeared to'be less than four years of age • 
• j • 
With Ver_.911.lQ?.,-• _spns again acting as mistress of / /· / 
ceremonies; tne ral_ ,;-ms addressed by C~otte Shers2n, 
Margaret Wright, Tima Tomash, and Jil),,--'Schary. The latter/ · -· 
was introduced as a radio commentat6r employed by Los Angeles 
Radio Station KLAC. She joined the others in calling for a 
coalition of women to influence legislation and bring an end to 
the war in Vietnam. She also called for support of other "liberal 
radio broadcasters on our side", one of whom she named as 
William Winter. (The 11Daily People's World 11, west coast 
corrtr.1unist ne-.,;spaper, in its edition of Ju:ie 11, 1946, described 
William Winter as chairman of a local citizens' committee to 
safeguard the Joint Anti-Fascist Refuge Cormnittee, whicrr 
organization has been cited pursuant to Executive Order 10450). 
• • ·__.G-tfurlot~erman was introduced as. the wife of 
--• Laurencff Sherman, it being pointed out that he was an •• 
unsuccessful candidate for public office, on a peace slate, 
during 1967; but that both he and his ·wife were continuing the 
fight for an end to the t·J2r in Vietnam. She said, "It is time. 
for us to re-examine our role. as women. Women are a vehicle 
for giving life. We will not be a vehicle for perpetuation 
of wars". She then read some anti-war quotes from .1-ienry David 
Thoreau, indicating they were as timely today, as when he ~•,rote 
them. 
Margaret Wright stated that ,·!::ere"'s the majority of 
women in the demonstration were wearing blqck to denote mourning, 
that she and her non-Caucasian associates v1ho feel, 11Black is 
beautiful" were dressed in white to indicate their attitude of 
mourning. She called for the elimination of ROTC (Reserve 
Officers Training Corps) from local high schools and junior 
colleges, adding, '~hey have got to get live bullets out or the 
schools, and get so;n,e live teachers in. 11 She repeated these 
same statements durin; the afternoon when the JRB moved to 
the Los Angeles City Board of Education. 
As the rally was breaking up, Wright grabbed the 
public address syste~ and said that it had been learned that 
the City Council was in session inside the City Hall Building. 
Dodd:32989544 Page 382 -3 ... 
