13-00000 
PAGE 9 
20/20 CABC), August 27; 1993 
turned. After this shot, Oswald, still had over eight seconds, not five, for the 
next two. 
The second shot is fired. This bullet hits both Kennedy and Connolly. After 
passing through Kennedy, you see it go through the Governor, as his suit lapel 
flaps forward. A computer technician discovered that crucial detail just last 
year. 
SHERR: cvoice-overl This is the so-called 'magic bullet' that seemed to zigzag 
through the two men. 
Kr. POSNER: This computer animation illustrates that the second bullet needed no 
magic. Because of the way the two men were lined up, this bullet passed directly 
through them. It turned only after it slowed down and shattered Connelly's wrist 
- no zigs, no zags. 
SHERR: How could that bullet have emerged so clean, with no flaws on it, really, 
whatsoever? 
Kr. POSNER: I was skeptical about that bullet, and I think that was the thing 
that stops many people from believing Oswald did it alone. It emerged so clean 
because that it went through Kennedy, it slowed up. When it went through 
Connelly's chest, it slowed up. By the time it hit the big bone in his wrist, 
which everybody thinks would damage it, it was traveling at half or a third of 
its speed - fast enough to crush the bone, but not fast enough to deform the 
bullet. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl The sudden backward motion of the President's head as the 
third and final bullet struck, blowing away part of his skull, has led many to 
believe that the shot came from the front, but.Posner says normal neurological 
reflexes make the body stiffen when struck, causing it to move back. 
And Dr. Pepper Jenkins, one of the physicians attending the President at 
Parkland Hospital, points to yet another possible factor, the brace President 
Kennedy wore for his chronic back pain. 
.. 
Dr. PEPPER JENKINS!'He was so tightly wound into a brace that- the metal coming 
up his back, and he was tied to the metal or strapped to the metal with an Ace 
bandage. 
SHERR: In the Zapruder film and in all the pictures we've seen~ well, how do you 
describe what the body is doing, having seen the brace? 
Dr. JENKINS: Well, I would think you couldn't fall forward. I think you'd have 
to fall backwards or aside. . . 
SHERR: Because? 
Dr. JENKINS: Because the brace held him in such a position. 
2nd NEWSCASTER: C?l At approximately one o'clock, the President is dead. The 
doctors were working too frantically to revive him to notice the exact moment. 
SHERR: cvoice-overl Dr. Jenkins also has a very poignant memory of Mrs. Kennedy 
sometime standing next to him . 
. EXIS
8
• NEXIS
8
<r 
Services of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
