t107J 
J. 
[ 
::-.. --~ 
SECTION 107. tIN.AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND co1AENTIAL SOURCES; 
AND~ REIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASS~ 
INDICES 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol number index 
3. 
Are to be kept by SAC, ASAC, or security supervisor consistent with 
maximum security and best administrative practice 
a. Alphabetical name index 
In all offices maintain card index showing true identities of all 
security i:nf ormants, potential security informants, security con­
fidential sources,[informative assets, and operational assets.] 
This is to be known as alphabetical name index. File cards in 
alphabetical order. 
b. Symbol number index 
This index shall contain card for each individual to whom symbol 
number has been assigned. File cards numerically and any symbols 
which consist of fictitious names shall be filed alphabetically 
behi·nd numeric·a1 symbol index. 
c. Where good reason exists for an Agent to obtain information from 
either of these indices, it should be furnished by official having 
custody of cards. These indices should be used as a guide only; 
informant's file must be reviewed to deiermine specific nature of 
activities and type of information he furnishes. 
d. Index cards 
Index cards (FD-348) shall be executed for alphabetical name index 
and symbol number index. Execute only following items: 
Symbol: 
(Informant, potential 
informant, confidential 
source,[informative asset, 
or operational asset)] 
Name: 
File No: 
e. Contacts with informants should not be posted on index cards since 
this information is shown in informant's administrative file. 
Index entitled "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" 
a. A separate index may be maintained for use of Agents on informants 
and sources in other divisions who may be available for assistance. 
b. If such index maintained, separate index card is to be prepared on 
each informant and source included. 
c. Cards should contain brief background data and identity of Bureau 
communication showing background data. 
d. File cards alphabetically by name and/or symbol number. Duplicate 
cards may be prepared to be filed geographically and/or by subject 
matter. 
Agents' informative index 
a. An Agents' informative index may be maintained by same official as 
set out in item 1, above, for use of Agents on type of informant 
coverage in division. 
b. File cards by geographical location, arr~nged alphabetically by 
states, cities, subdivisions within cities, etc. 
c~ Behind each geographical location, place guide card indicating type 
of information which can be furnished, such as Communist Party, 
Polish Activity, etc. 
d. On guide card set forth symbol numbers of informants and confidential 
sources who can provide coverage. 
e. Deleted. • 
f. When individual can provide more than one type of information, set 
forth his symbol or identity on as many guide cards as applicable. 
g. Guide cards should show above data and it is permissible to place 
alongside name or symbol number names of contacting Agents. 
h. Also, symbol numbers of informants who move outside division and 
who still may be excellent sources regarding past activities may 
be set forth on guide cards. 
i. Names or symbol numbers of individuals contained in index entitled 
"Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" who can be- of assistance 
to your office may be set forth on appropriate guide cards in this 
index. 12 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1158 
) 
) 
l i ! 
l I l 
i 
l 
! 
l 
i 
l 
~ 
~ ! 
l 
