13-opooo. 
• 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
NON-BLOC COMMERCIAL · RELATIONS - cont'd 
The director of Varmi confirmed to US officials that he 
had been negotiating with a Spanish firm (probably CILASA) 
for the sale. of US-origin construction equipment; after being 
informed that the material was destined for Cuba and having 
been warned of the consequences of such a sale, the director 
agreed on 2 December to stop negotiations. The US consul 
comments that it is not sure whether the knowledge of the 
eventual sale to Cuba or the fact of US intervention in the 
matter caused Varmi to stop the arrangements. 
Meanwhile, a source with access to CILASA's files re­
ported on 28 November that a Cuban comission headed by Rene 
Narbona of the Cuban tractor importing agency would be unable 
to arrive in Brussels on 30 November because of inability to 
obtain visas. This group had probably been scheduled to com­
plete negotiations for the:purchase of the Varmi construction 
equipment. (Am ConGen Antwerp 1 29, 3 December, CONFIDENTIAL; 
CI.A Madrid TDCS-3/566 ,653, 5 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN DI.S­
SEM) 
The US Embassy in Tokyo, in receipt of a report that 
private Japanese companies have contracted for 325,000 tons 
of Cuban sugar for delivery between July 1964 and June 1965, 
sees little prospect of inducing the.Japanese Government to 
int~rfere with the transaction ... The Japanese Government would 
have difficulty intervening because of the general world. sugar 
shortage, the unavailability of sugar from other sources at 
comparable prices, and the political problem which rising • 
sugar prices is causing the Ikeda administration. (Am Emb 
Tokyo 1688, 5 December, CONFIDENTIAL) 
The director of the Spanish firm Empresa Nacional de 
Optica, Vicente M. cabanillas Gonzalez, left Madrid for Havana 
o.n a 29 November:: IBERIA Airlines flight. As reported earlier 
(see Daily Summary,· 11 October) , • cabanillas is negotiating 
through CILASA for the sale of a large quantity of movie pro­
jectors to the General Administrator of University Inspection 
in Havana. According to a CILASA employee with access to 
company files, Cabanillas' travel expenses are being paid by 
CILASA. C&banillas had hoped to get a Cuban visa which would 
not appear in his passport,as he hoped to visit the US later. 
He was unable to arrange this, however, and finally had to ac­
cept;the Cuban visa in his passport. (CIA, Madrid, IN 74453, 
5 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM) 
NON-BLOC RELATIONS: 
A CUban good-will mission was received by the Moroccan acting 
foreign minister on 2 December, according to information received by 
the US Embassy in Rabat. The mission was probably composed of Antonie 
carrillo carreras, Enrique Vian Audivert of the Ministry of Foreign 
Trade, and Dr. Enrique Rodriguez Leoches, Cuban ambassador to Moroc­
co. (See Daily Summary of 29 November for recent Cuban-Moroccan 
relations.) -7-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
