po1w 
6. 
8. 
~ ~~ 
SECTION 107. fI&AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND C.IDENTIAL SOURCES; 
AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
Development of personnel of foreign diplomatic establishment or 
international organization 
Whenever it becomes desirable to develop an official or employee of a 
foreign diplomatic establishment or government, or of a public inter­
national or~anization of a governmental or quasi-governmental nature, 
who·is not a national of a hostile country, e.g., Canadian, Argentinian, 
or U. s. United Nations Secretariat (UNSEC) employee to target against 
Soviet-bloc UNSEC employee, FBIHQ asks for authorization from State 
Department to conduct background investigation. FBIHQ must inform 
State Department of the propo~ed asset's name, rank or position, nation­
ality, current place of assignment, and, generally, the type of use 
we intend to make of the asset. After authorization has been received 
and background investigation completed, if individual offers asset 
potential,submit results of background investigation in LHM and in 
cover communication request authority to interview. FBIHQ will then 
request authorization from State Department to interview. 
Development 
The development of assets depends on the individual circumstances of 
each situation. No rigid procedural steps or contact schedules can 
be imposed which will uniformly apply to all cases; however, the 
development should proceed with the objective of obtaining valuable 
results as quickly as feasible, consistent with maintaining the asset's 
security, credibility, and confidence, and with developing the asset's 
potential to its fullest. 
Opening of asset files 
Open a 134 file for all individuals at the time they are first con­
sidered for development as assets. This file should consist of two parts: 
a main file which will contain all identifying data, results of back­
ground investigation, personal status data, and administrative data; 
and a subfile which will contain at least one copy of all information 
provided by asset. The asset is not to be identified, beyond his symbol 
number, in subf~le. 
Maintain files of all active assets as pending. Utilize FD-238 as 
unserialized top document in main file. 
Assignment and tickler cards must not reflect name of asset; use symbol 
and/or file number. 
9. Maintenance of FCI asset files and indices 
NW 38321 
Maintain all FCI asset files, pending and closed, under lock and key 
under personal supervision of SAC, ASAC, or employee designated by SAC. 
Files of FCI assets will be included in calculation of delinquencies 
in monthly administrative report. 
FCI asset indices will be maintained according to the administrative 
instructions set out under section 107 J, part I, of this manual. 
1200 
11SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
28 
10-15-74 
... 
r 
i 
''\ 
~ J 
t • l 
t 
l 
I 
f • ~ 
~ 
~ 
t 
? 
"' i' 
~ 
.. • \ ; 
