Tur 
Donald E~ Schulz 
Kennedy and th~ uban Connection 
C 
onspital'Y theoril'S. ar_e. fashio!1ablt•, 
sometimes even fruitful, as in the 
case of Watergate. So it is not surprising 
that recent revelations of the Senate ln­
telligem:e Committee have resurrected 
an old question: what connection, if any, 
did the Castro government have with the 
assassination of John F. Kennedy? 
Current speculation is that the Cuban 
dictator, having learned of CIA plots 
against his life, decided to strike back, 
returning violence for violence, with 
<:nnsequences that are now history. In­
deed, the recent report of the Schweiker­
Bart task force,· while finding no hard 
e, idence to support this theory, did un­
l'over some interesting new leads. More 
than that, it established that a CIA-FBI 
'"t·m•t•r-11p" • had deprived the Warren 
t·ommission of vital information that pre­
vented it from· seriously exploring the 
possibility of C;lstro's involvement and 
that consequeriuy-there is no longer any 
reason to have faith in its picture of the 
Ke111wdy assassination." 
Ami so we may well have a reopening 
of the iit9·t•stigation. At last. 
Given all this, it seems appropriate to 
t•xaminc thl' rt'l'ord of the period. A small 
hut inten·sting body of published testi-
111om· and reminiscences describes and 
ampiy dol'uments a little-known cam­
paign of accommodation launched by 
Washington and Havana in the weeks 
preceding that fateful day in November 
1!!63. Adually, the origins of this tenta• 
tin.- and ultimately ill-fated rapproche-
111,·111 may be traced to the previous 
,pring. when, Castro, iilcreasingly de­
pt•ndent on his Soviet sponsors, found 
himselfobliged to embrace the banner of 
"1wacd'ul coexistence" in order to obtain 
1•conomk and military agreements need­
I'd to assure the continued development 
111 his rc\'olution. In practical terms, this 
llll'ant the nom1alization of relations 
with the United States. 
A MESSAGE FOR CASTRO 
It was not until September 1963', how-
1•vN, that this campaign began to show . 
results. At that time, William Attwood, an 
adviser to the U.S. delegation to the 
United Nations, told his superiors he had 
word that Castro wanted an lU..-commoda­
lion. John Kennedy got the message and 
approved a "discreet contact" with the 
Cuban U.N. representative, Carlos Le­
dmga. Subsequently, communications 
wne established and meetings held 
i !'it>p&t"mhl"r 6, l 976 
NW 095.5 Docid: 32423630 Page 371 
to discuss the prospect of negotiations. 
By early November, Kennedy had de­
cided !to push toward an opening with 
Cuba jn hopes of taking Castro out ofthe 
Soviet fold and erasing the memory of 
the B~y of Pigs. The Americans sought a 
meetirtg to draw up an agenda for later 
discu~sions. On Nov. 18, this message 
was transmitted to Havana. Shortly 
there:ffier, Lechuga was instructed to set 
forth ~uch a plan for U.S. consideration. 
Evifo as these developments were un­
folding, a second dialogue was taking 
place through an unofficial envoy-the 
French journalist Jean Daniel. On Oct. 
24, Kennedy had received Danielin the 
White House. The President, it seems, 
had learned of the Frenchman's forth­
coming visit to Cuba and had decided to 
seize the occasion to send Castro a mes­
sage. The essence of this communication 
was a strong hint that the United States 
• would be willing to normalize relations 
providing certain conditions were met. 
What were those conditions? One, dear• 
ly, was an end to Castroite subversion. 
The U.S. had a special responsibility to 
contain Communist expansionism. As 
long as Havana continued to export revo­
lution, the economic "blockade" of the 
island would remain in effect. 
ACCOMMODATIONS 
Beyond this, not much was definite. 
The American negotiating position had 
not yet been worked out .. Even so, hints 
of possible Cuban participation in the 
Alliance for Progress and of the desire of 
the United States to see a decline in 
Soviet influence on the island suggested 
further avenues for discussion. 
Bearing this message and an invitation 
. to revisit the White House upon his re­
turn, Daniel set off for Cuba. There he 
found a remarkably receptive Fidel Cas­
tro. Indeed, during the course of a six­
hour interview the lkler mdximo found 
occasion to praise the American Presi­
dent for his sincerity, realism and "good 
ideas": Kennedy might yet understand 
that there could be "coexistence be­
tween capitalists and socialists, even in 
the Americas." Castro was convinced 
that normal relations could be restored 
"on the basis of mutual respect for sover• 
eignty." His country needed peace in 
order to coricentrate on the socio-eco­
nomic tasks of the revolution. The issue 
of subversion would not be an obstacle. 
Cubans would nah,rally "feel solidarity" 
with their revoh1-
tionary. brethren in 
other lands. But ul­
timately, each na­
tion would have to 
determine its own 
destiny, and "if they 
choose regimes oth­
er than ours, this is not our business." 
This was two days prior to President 
Kennedy's death. • 
I , mentiQn these developments be­
cause they provide an important-and 
perhaps crucial-frame of reference for 
Congressional investigators and the pub­
lic alike; They are not, of course, proof of 
innocence. But they are suggesth·e: 
would Castro have been so intent on 
coming to terms with a man he was 
conspiring to kill? One may seriously 
doubt it. In point of fact, the assa.ssina• 
tion would bring a quick end to Washing• 
ton's interest in accommodation. 
POSSIBLE SCENARIOS 
Still, this is not to rule out the possibil­
ity of a "Cuban connection." Govern• 
ments often behave in inconsistent and 
self-defeating ways. Indeed, even as the 
Ke Administration was taking 
these rst covert steps toward rap,, 
prochement, the CIA was engaged in an 
attempt on Castro's life. If, du~ to a lack 
of political control and a prevailing at­
mosphere of cold-war hostility~ U.S 
agents could be conducting such activi• 
ties in direct conflict with Presidential 
policy, it is not difficult to imagine simi­
lar distortions on the Cuban side. Only a 
few weeks earlier, Castro had publicly 
denounced U .S.-sponsored assassina~ 
_tions and even threatened retaliation. 
Might not some overzealous seC'urity of• 
ficials have taken this for tacit authority 
to set up a ''program of elimination"? 
But all this remains speculation. It is 
possible to envision any number of sce­
narios that might have led to. the fatal 
events of Nov. 22. lri lieu of hard evi­
dence, however, it seems only fair to give 
Castro the same benefit of the doubt that 
Kennedy has been accorded-namelr, 
that he be considered innocent until 
proved guilty. It is hoped that the in\'es­
tigations to come will proceed on the 
basis of that assumption. 
Schulz., a Ph.D. candidate in political. 
science at Ohio State University, ii writ· 
ing a book on the Cuban revolution. 
9 
1111 
