14-00000 
. ' 
·sr:p. 28. 1 1 '398 
l ' 
1 , 
3:38PM A 1~0.279 
SECRET 8BHSITIVE NOFORJJ 
' 
contained evidence of a penetration of CIA, this clearly was 
of vital i~portance. rt, on the other hand, they did not, 
it was important that this be recogni%ed and the files and 
f:u11.·a 3n .:1 euspicions appropriately dgalt with. Je Fe!:} a lawyer 
by education who joined the staff in late summer 1975, was 
assigned to study these files. A procedure was developed 
~ereby_he reviewed each one by one, and prepared a summary 
of its contents. This WQnt forward to Kalaris with, in each 
instance, a recol'lllllendation on the cover sheet for 
disposition. On file after file these cover sheets ended up 
saying the same thing: that the file had been reviewed, 
that the conclusion had been reached that there was nothing 
of merit in it, and the file should be destoyad. The review 
of the file on Richard Kovich, for example, which was eight 
page£ long, was dated 22 Decenber 197S.• Kalaris, 
eoncurring, sent it to ADDO Blee with a handwritten note 
that the material in this case would be packaged and held 
with instructions that it should be destroyed as soon as the 
senate released CIA from its embargo on destruction, and 
that the sull\lllary memo and cover she~t would constitute the 
only future record. The HONETOL files received steady but 
not priority attention. It took somelJhat over a year for 
3 
{j_o;Jto make his way through allot them. Nothing of ~erit 
was found in any of them. 
A special approach was developed to get th~ MORINE/data 
into central indices. As a result of the compartmentation 
applied to'MORINE
0
in the Angleton staff, ~uch of the 
' ' 
existing _MORINi'. information was squirreled away and not 
immediately appreciated. The rejuvenated exploitation 
I 
program produced a flood of{iRTAFFi}correspondence with 
field stations, but this was slo~ to yield indexable 
material. It was not until the end of 1975 that a focused l 
• Richard Kovich vas one of the three CIA staff officers 
~ most ·severely affected by the HONE'l'Ot witch-hunt. 
H 
SECU:'f BENl:t'fIVI lfOPOJUI 
P.20 
