• 
U?iITED STATES SENATE SELECT cor11?,1ITTEn 
TO ~TUl)Y GOWnm.muTAL OPEI?ATIONS 
UITH RESPECT TO IN'l'ELLIG:GUCD ACTIVITIES 
At tbo outset ur. Croscioli w:is informed o:f bis 
rights; namely, that ha did hnvo n richt to nn nttorney, thnt 
the interview w~s ontiro1y voluntary und that he could refuse 
to nnswor nny questions nskod o~ him. Tbe intorviow included 
tllo following !),uosti-ons asli:ed by t.lossrs.. Dick nnd Wallnch which 
ure deeraod pertinent: 
In order to assess tho experience of Special Agent 
Crescioli,- his prior £11reau background was .requested. !Jr. Crescioli 
responded that he entei"ed on duty us a Special Agent in Se.ptombe.r, 
l9G•1,- :and sorved in .five field offices linndling both criminal 
nnd security matters prior to his nssignmont to FBI neadquarters~ 
During tho poriod 1008-73, I.Ir. Crer1cioli uas nssignoo as nn FBI 
Ilondqun.rtors Duporvisor handling substantivo cases in tho 
intornul security nrea. From 1973 to November~ 1974, he wns 
assigned to the Foreign LiaiSon Unit of the Liaison Section, 
nnd :from November, 1974 .. to the present~ he has been assigned 
to tha•Domestio Liaison Unit handling liaison speci£ieally 
with tho military nnd U. s. Postal Service. 
• Uessrs. W:.tll;:ich antl' Dick were most intci"estcd in 
nscortnin1nc tho proc~durc followed by !lr. Crozcioli ·.;o oocuro 
nuthority to be p~esent at this interview. Ho was specifically 
~uoricd as to tho names of the individuuls who authorized his 
nttcndanco and what coments or inst1"uctions.,, if any, those 
Dureau o:fficinls gave him.. ?itr. Crescioli rasponded by stating 
tha.t upon receiving a telephone cnll f.rom Iilr. Dick re~.uosting 
his nppoarance. n monornndum setting forth this request was 
proparod by Ur .. Crosoioli and "walked tbrouch" various Durc:iu 
lovols for approvnl. ~ho identities of ~uroau officials npprovincr 
tho memorandum wore roado known to these Staf:f ?.!embo.rs ~ howovor, 
it was pointed out to them that no particul_ar comment of 
pertinence to instnnt matter was recalled by nr. Ci"cscioli ns 
having been made by any of these officials. 
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989£27 Page 102 
