107W SECTION 107. IIRNAL SECURITY INF~RMANTS AND clIDENTIAL SOURCES; 
AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION'1 
b. FBIHQ authority 
(1) If FCI asset is of such continuing value to justify regular 
payments, such payments must be approved by FBIHQ. 
(2) When initially requesting regular payment, submit evaluation 
via coded 11Nitel" in the following order: 
(a) Amount paid to date, broken down into expenses and 
services 
(b) Number of contacts with handling FBI SA since last 
evaluation 
(c) Evaluation of stability and reliability 
(d) Concise summary of most valuable information furnished 
since last evaluation 
(e) Miscellaneous - changes in personal status, residence, 
employment, personal problems, etc., since last evaluation 
(f) SAC recommendations for authority to pay asset for next 
six-month period; specify amount to be authorized for 
services and amount for eA'l)enses 
(3) Continuation request should be made two weeks in advance of 
expiration of authority. 
(4) Submit an interim request for increase in regular payments 
authorized via coded t1Nitel, 11 with full justification. 
c. Receipts 
When payments are made either on SAC authority or FBIHQ authority, 
obtain receipts whenever possible. If receipt cannot be obtained, 
set forth circumstances on blue slip at time reimbursement is claimed. 
(1) Receipts should be self-sufficient so that, if it becomes 
• 
necessary to introduce receipts in evidence, they will not • 
relate to other documents or files. 
(2) Receipts should show: 
(a) Date when payment was made 
(b) Period for which made when asset is paid on period basis 
(c) Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for 
services and expenses 
(d) Name of FBI SA making payment 
(e) Signature of asset receiving money using pseudonym assigned 
(3) Receipts are not to be witnessed. 
(4) If necessary to make corrections on receipts, they must be 
initialed by asset and not by FBI SA. 
(5) When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of eA'l)enses 
to FBIHQ, staple them directly to blue slip so that all infor­
mation on receipt can be read without detaching it from -blue 
slip. 
27. Evaluation of FCI assets 
a. OA 
W 38321 Docld:32989529 
Whether OA is paid (under either FBIHQ or SAC authority) or unpaid, 
submit coded 11Nitel" every six months evaluating OA according to the 
format of 26. b. (2). [If the OA is unpaid, submit six-month eval­
uation and request for continued utilization, if appropriate, on 
UACB basis.] If the OA has been paid during the preceding six-
month period, merely set out the amount paid during that period 
(under 26. b. (2) (a)). 
1472 
nsECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
36 
2-13-75 
• 
I 
I 
_____J 
