13-00000 
SECRET 
to. And sometimes they did, like the Cuban missile crisis. And the President 
stopped the distribution all across. Completely. 
INTERVIEWER: Was there any feeling -- you talked about the Band of Brothers 
in Clandestine Service - was there any similar feeling in the DOI? 
MR. HALPERN: I don't know. You'd have to ask somebody there that could tell 
you. Because I am in effect the Johnny-come-lately to the DDP becaus~ I 
started out in OSS and R&A, and then moved from R&A over into the SSU, the SI 
side -- the Secret Intelligence side. And I know when I was in R&A our 
feeling then was we were part of OSS, the whole thing, and even though the SI 
people didn't always tell us what they were doing, we found out later that we 
shouldn't know. At least I found out later. There was a good reason why we 
shouldn't know. We could work with them and we worked very well with them in 
terms of providing intelligence support for their operations in the field in 
Southeast Asia, which was my beat, and we would sit a!1d work with the officers 
who were goi~g out (not the agents> but the officers going out to do the job, 
and when I was in Ceylon (again R&A) we worked very closely together with them 
in terms of planned operations against varioui parts of Japanese held 
territory. And we wrote all kinds of papers for them and pulled together all 
kinds of stuff, and the question was in those days we felt more like we were 
all part of OSS and OSS was a brand new thing. At least that is the attitude 
I felt from talking to my friends about it, even as a part of R&A. But later 
when it became a bigger outfit (a peacetime outfit) it was more -- well. we 
were part of CIA in DDP but we felt for good and sufficient reasons that it 
would be better if we could·work out some decent cover so we'd be on the 
outside totally devoid and divorced from the government. I don't know, the 
number of times we had study groups planning on how to do this, to have a real 
15 
SECRET 
