: )I, 
• CIA officials maintain that they acted faithfully in tr,nsmitting 
messages to Generals Bennett and/or Philpott and in never sending a 
message without proper authorization~ Mr. Karamessines was particularly 
forceful in this regard: 
... I can recall no instance in my experience at the Central 
Intelligence Agency in which a message was received for an 
individual, an officer of the government anywhere, in what­
ever department, which was not faithfully, directly, promptly 
aµd fully and accurately delivered to that officer, or to his 
duly authorized representative. 
(Karamessines testimony 1 p. 79) 
We may have played tricks overseas, but it stopped at the 
water's edge, and we didn't play tricks among ourselves or 
among our colleagues within the Agency or in other agencies. 
(Karamessines testimony, p. 79) 
We could not remain in business for a day ... if this had been 
the practice of the Agency. It would have been no time at 
all before we would have be~n found out, a single instance 
of the kind of thing you are suggesting might have taken 
place would have put us out of business. 
(Karamessines testimony, p. 80) 
Dr. Kissinger denied he was ever informed of the Army Attache's 
role or that he author~zed any messages to be sent to the Army Attache. 
(Kissinger testimony, p. 22) 
The investigation to date has not resolved the conflict between the 
statements of the senior CIA, DIA and White House officials. There are 
four possibilities that cou~d explain the conflict. First, Generals 
Bennett and Philpott were cognizant of Track II and communicated their 
general instructions.to the Army Attache. • This possibility would be 
contrary to their sworn testimony. Second., General Berinett was not aware 
of Track II but General Philpott was and communicated general instructions to 
the Army Attache. This possibility is supµorted by Roth's testimony 
but would be contrary t0 Philpott's sworn testimony and his duty to 
keep General Bennett informed. Third, the CIA acted on its own , and, 
after receiving initial General Philpott, co-opted and ordered 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 461 
-
,-- ..... 
-· 
