( 
.. 
( 
c. 
( 
NW 88321 
,.... .ION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGAr ' 87F 
contractors holding contracts with agencies of Department of Defense 
where there is credible subversive information concerning employeeo 
Conduct thorough investigation and consider for ADTIX any individual 
employed in or having access to key facility who is alleged to have 
been, at any time in past 1 member of any basic revolutionary organiza-
tion or against whom there is sufficient subversive information to 
warrant such action. 
(1) Requests for investigation from another agency 
When another ag·ency requests investigation of individual employed 
in key facility, institute investigation immediately if ba~is of 
request warrants, and advise Bureau. 
(2) Verification of key facility status 
Check Key Facilities List (maintained in each office) to verify 
. that subject's place of employment is included. . 
(3) Individuals denied access to restricted information· 
Intelligence agencies of armed forces frequently report individual 
has been denied clearance to work in defense plant or to handle 
classified informationo Intelligence agency is responsible to 
furnish Bureau with any information involving disloyalty or ·sub­
versiono Office receiving such notification must promptly ascertain 
basis for denial and obtain all pertinent data contained in file 
of agency responsible for such action. Forward data to Bureau 
and include in next report. Where no investigation has been con­
ducted by Bureau, open security investigation if information warrants. 
Inclusion in ADEX 
In recommending key facility employee ··for ADEX, FD-122 is ·to contain: 
(1) Key facility geographical reference-number 
(2) Abbreviation for Department of Army (A), which has security 
• responsibility for all key facilities • 
(3) Abbreviations for other agencies known to have classified contracts 
with key facility. Interested agencies are identified- on FD-122 
to assure proper dissemination of reports but will·not appear 
. on ADEX cards. 
(4) Recommendation for Category I designation 
Dissemination 
Following guidelines relative to dissemination of information in these 
cases should not be considered as hard-and-fast ruleso If special 
circumstances exist which would dictate that outside dissemination· 
should not be made or should be deferred (for example, the possibility 
of compromising a highly sensitive investigation) withhold dissemination 
and promptly submit appropriate recommendations to Bureau for its 
conside-ra tion. 
Upon receipt of allegation concerning key facility employee from source 
other than interested intelligence agency, immediately furnish by letter 
to interested agency (1) summary of allegation and information concerning 
individual; (2) statement that information is unsubstantiated and has 
not been verified through investigation; (3) advise as to whether security 
investigation is being conducted and, if so, that copies of reports will 
be furnished upon completion. With exception noted below, disseminate 
derogatory information of security nature concerning persons employed 
at facilities holding classified contracts both to interested intel­
ligence agencies and to Chief, Defense Industrial Security Clearance 
Office (DISCO), Defense Supply Agency, Columbus, Ohio 43215, attention 
Chief, Adjudication Division (advise interested intelligence agency of 
dissemination to DISCO). This includes persons who may not currently 
be key facility employees but are known to hold industrial security 
clearances. Exception involves fac_ili ties holding classified contracts 
1941 
41 
4-13-72 
