DE 157-3075 
F. Philosophy of the BPP 
In explaining the new Panther image, GERJI.LD 
·CRAWFORD stated, "For tco long the Panther Party has found 
itself in the role of defender, rather then educator of 
the community. We feel the Party should be a vehicle to. 
take the community to liberation and no-:.: the force which 
consistently finds itself in conflict with thG Police. 
We are now moving toward the role of humani taria.ns, -:1ncl 
our goal is humanization of alt raankincL We wou} .. d like 
to remove all racial and class barrier8. Our struggle is 
more a class struggle -- rather than a racial one, and 
our role is to educate the co:w"Tiunitv to that fact. He 
are not trying to teach individuals-what to think, but 
instead, ·we are trying to teach them to think for 
themselves and objectively analyze the situation we find 
ourselves in. 
"Ironically, those people who can best perform 
this service turn their backs on the con~unity and help 
those forces t:1hich are oppressin9 a.11 of us. College 
students today &not bring their talents back to the 
community, but help to build the system ·,1hich they have 
suffered under. In order for .us to successfully perform 
our duty, ·we need the sup"f?ort of the corrununi ty. 'l'he 
Panthers are a part of the com.,nunitv and need its entire 
support. Without this support, ·we \Jill be unable to 
continue our fight against oppression. 
11
Por the past ten years, the Bla.cJ.: Panther Party 
has found itself on the covers of national mag.:-:.zines and 
in newspapers. Reporters have described Panther membern 
. . 
as Communists and revolutionaries: Eut for scv(:-:rc:.J. re3sons 
this description is not applicable ~o today's Black Panther 
Party. In the past t,·;o years, the PanthE:ir ?arty has . 
undergone drastic chanqes. Black Pc1nther members have t:1::-.i.ed 
to drop the role of guerilla fighters and are putting every 
effort into being }:nown as educators and. humani-c.arians. 
"The Party's Detroit Chapter is trying extremely 
hard to change its image from communi. ty bodyguard to cmnraun j_ t.y 
servant." 
DE T-8 
August 17, 1972 
14 -
I 
