( 
P/:,j~--.. 
I I L. I . 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALlSRE WHITE Ho~~"-c.;..-
1
t;F 
time and bureaucratic process that it reached the working lev~l 
only in the form of SNIE 85-3, which held that establishment of 
such a base was most improbable. (See, however, para 29) 
54. It is difficult to say wheth~r information from ground 
• sources would have been published had there not be·en a blanket 
injunction against it. The analysts too were sensitive to the 
potential political impact of the reports they were receiving; 
this would not have influenced them against publication, but 
would have .made thE:::.:. want to be doubly sure, especially on a. 
subject with a his-::ory reaching back to Our Man in Havana. In . 
addi t:i_cn1, rigid cc: .. ,par_tmentation was maintained between the 
COMOP.--Special Gro .. '~J organization responsible for collection and 
the intelligence ~~mponents responsible for analysi~. Few, if 
any, CIA analysts i;·,::,rking on the Cuban problem even • had I-DEA,1:1I;S-T 
clearances. As~ result, they did not know that no overflights 
of Pinar del Rio and Las Villas were included in the September 
program, or that this program was seriously delayed. They had 
no way- of knowing that· the photographic verification they had 
requested would not be soon forthcoming, and they might well have 
delayed publication from day to day in hopes of receiving it .. 
55. Nevertheless, it can be established that if the injunc­
tion against publication had not existed there would_ have been 
some reflection of the refugee reports in_ the Cuban Daily Summary, 
which is not highly selective. ln retrospect, 1 t seems qui -ca i:ias­
sible--but by no mean~ certain--that they would then have been 
picked up in the Checklist, but it is extremely doubtful if they 
would have survived the coordination process for the Central In­
telligence Bulletin. Thus, at the most· the President might have 
·learned that there was suspicious activity arourid San Cristobal 
slightly more than a week before he._ apparently did. 
56. In sum the CIA analysts believed they had done their 
duty by targeting the San Cristobal area for photographi~ cover-
age, ·but no word of their concern over activity in this area 
had appeared in an intelligence publication. It appears highly 
probabl~ that the Special Group first heard of this concern at 
its meeting on 9 October, when (see para. 63) it ordered a U-2 
mission which covered the area. 
57. The gap of 7-10 days between the key analytic correla­
tion of reports and the Special Group meeting can probably be 
attrib~ted to the cumbersome processes of the administrative 
structure supporting the Special Group. This machinery was de­
Signed to provide elaborate justifications and back-up paper 
work.before each decision was made, procedures reaching back 
in to the early history of U-2 operations over· the USSR. They 
were intended for the control of deliberate strategic reconnais­
sance of the USSR, and not for a fast-moving situation such as 
that in Cuba, which was rapidly becoming tactical. In fact, 
after readout of the 14 October mission they were jettisoned. 
-28- Pl-~ 
~.._.-.. from TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST -.-enoR. Fo11:H.ibrar). 
