... 
SECRET 
Betsy palmer 
File Review - Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I - XVIII 
May 2, 1978 
Volume XVI - July 1, 1964 - August 28, 1964 
1. Draft on Manuel Ray by Alfonso Rodriguez dtd 6 July 1964 
After his failure to reach CUba during May 1964, Ray believes he must go 
into Guba as soon as possible. Within JURE, according to Ray, his detention 
by the British is viewed as an unfortunate incident. Ray said some JURE 
members considering demonstrations before Bri ti.sh embassies and consulates. 
2. Memo for the Record dtd 7 July 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez 
Subject: Tad Szulc Relationship with Manuel Ray 
Rodriguez questioned Ray's using newspaper correspondents as emissaries to 
departments of the U.S. govt. Ray stated that Szulc took it upon himself 
to speak about matters related to assisting Ray. Rodriguez says it would 
be wrong to assume that Ray is controlled by Szulc but Ray "undoubtedly 
knows that Szulc has 'W'Orked hard, first with President Kennedy and now, for 
him and his interest. This cannot but influence Ray." 
2. Intelligence Information Memo, 14 and 15 June 1964 ()J'; o'if ,;,""'l 
Source: l£?se Alvarez Sola, private chauffeur of Rogelio Cisneros Di8::J.j 
JURE's national executive met 14/15 June to discuss crisis within the 
organization concerning Cisneros. Dr. Raul Chibas Ribas stated th~t if 
Cisneros not removed from his position, Chioas ~ould nake public his 
resignation. 
3. Me~orandum for Director of Central Intelligence, dtd 9 July 1964 
?rom: Dismond FitzGerald, Chief/WH Division 
Subject: Chronology of Concept of Autonomous Operations and 
Summary of Financial Support to Manuel Artime 
Attachment A is listing of origin, briefings, discussions, and approvals by 
appropriate policy levels of the concept of autonomous operations and 
specifically support to Artime. Chron clearly shows that from the verJ 
beginning the problems inherent in autonomous operations were clearly 
stated at all times by the Agency and that appropriate policy levels were 
kept f'ully and regularly informed of the status of autonomous operations. 
Attachment B contains summary and breakdown of financial support for Artime. 
Summary states that, "From June 1963 through 30 June 1964 the Agency spent 
~,933,293 in support of the Artime operation." Fixed monthly subsidy is 
$225,000. 
SECRET 
