Fl)..291 <Rev. 11-1-73) 
• EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 
As consideration for employment in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBD, United 
States Department of Justice, and as a condition for continued employment, I hereby declare 
that I intend to be governed by and I will comply with the following provisions: 
(1) That I am hereby advised and I understand that Federal law such as 
Title 18, United States Code, Sections 793, 794, and 798; Order of the 
President of the United States (Executive Order 11652); and regulations 
issued by the Attorney General of the United States (28 Code of Federal 
Regulations, Sections 16. 21 through 16.26) prohibit loss, misuse, or un­
authorized disclosure or production of national security information, other 
classified information and other nonclassified information in the files of 
the FBI; 
(2) I understand that unauthorized disclosure of information in the files 
of the FBI or information I may acquire as an employee of the FBI could 
result in impairment of national security, place human life in jeopardy, or 
result in the denial of due process to a person or persons who are subjects 
of an FBI investigation, or prevent the FBI from effectively discharging its 
responsibilities. I understand the need for this secrecy agreement; there-
fore, as consideration for employment I agree that I will never divulge, 
publish, or reveal either by word or conduct, or by other means disclose to 
any unauthorized recipient without official written authorization by the 
Director of the FBI or his delegate, any information from the investigatory 
files of the FBI or any information relating to material contained in the files, 
or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as a part of the 
performance of my official duties or because of my official status. The burden 
is on me to determine, prior to disclosure, whether information may be disclosed 
and in this regard I agree to request approval of the Director of the FBI in each 
such instance by presenting the full text of my proposed disclosure in writing to _ 
the Director of the FBI at least thirty (30) days prior to disclosure. I understand 
that this agreement is not intended to apply to information which has been placed 
in the public domain or to prevent me from writing or speaking about the FBI but 
it is intended to prevent disclosure of information where disclosure would be 
contrary to law, regulation or public policy. I agree the Director of the FBI is 
in a better position than I to make that determination; 
(3) I agree that all information acquired by me in connection with my official 
duties with the FBI and all official material to which I have access remains 
the property of the United States of America, and I will surrender upon demand 
by the Director of the FBI or his delegate, or upon separation from the FBI, any 
material relating to such information or property in my possession; 
(4) That I understand unauthorized disclosure may be a violation of Federal 
law and prosecuted as a criminal offense and in addition to this agreement may 
be enforced by means of an injunction or other civil remedy. 
I accept the above provisions as conditions for my employment and continued employment 
in the FBI. I agree to comply with these provisions both during my employment in the FBI and 
following termination of such employment. 
li!J... fMr-:'ORMA 
t~fe.:,i!t:t~_ i9,'f\;!f,ON CONTAfNE:O ~·· • DA,e, ~. ·:~L/l.8$!F~-. :,· c...l,L. Ey . 
• ~ (Type or print name) 
Witnessed and accepted in behalf of the Director, FBI, on 
(Signature) 
I NW 38196 Docld:32989581! 
, 19 __ , by ------------::::----:-..,------------41! (Signature) 
