13-00000 
·---····-·---
' 
Robert M. McNamara, Jr., Esq. 
July 15, 1998 
Page2 
• Non-duplicate documents within the hardcopy set of the CIA-House Select 
Committee.on Assassinations ("HSCA") Sequestered Collection (i.e, CIA files 
that were reviewed by the HSCA for its investigation of the JFK assassination 
and which were sequestered pursuant to agreement of the CIA and HSCA). 2 
• Non-duplicate documents within the microfilm version of the CIA-HSCA 
Sequestered Collection (the microfilm version is a more expansive set of records 
than the hardcopy set of the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection in that it contains 
complete underlying files, not just the specific records reviewed by the HSCA).3 
• Lee Harvey Oswald's 201 File. CIA has placed this file into the JFK Collection.4 
As for the microfilm copy of the Oswald 201 file (which we assume duplicates 
the original Oswald 201 file processed by the CIA), we request that it be placed in 
the protected portion of the JFK Collection by September 1998 (after Review 
Board examination). Certain recently discovered documents relating to Oswald 
also must be added to the JFK Collection. • 
• Lee Harvey Oswald's Office of Security File. CIA has placed this file into the JFK 
Collection. 
• Marina Oswald's 201 File. Whil~ Marina Oswald's 201 file has been processed 
for the JFK Collection (as part of the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection), we 
request that the original file be transferred to the protected portion of the JFK · 
2 As CIA has reported; the hard copy and microfilm versions of the CIA-HSCA 
Sequestered Collection were first placed irito the JFK Collection in 1993 and 1994. See 
CIA Initial Statement of Compliance (dated March 19, 1998), at 2. Documents from . 
those collections are being re-proces~, however, to the extent that the Review Board 
has mandated that such documents be opened up to a greater extent. 
3 NARA reports that it does not have the computerized version of the record 
identifica~on forms ("RIFs") for documents in the microfilm Sequestered Collection. 
CIA explained that it must first complete the processing of non-duplicates and update 
the computer data before that data is transferred to NARA. CIA anticipates that this . 
will be done sometime after October 1998. 
4 However, NARA reports that many documents do not have the proper RIFs 
attached. CIA will coordinate with NARA to correct this. 
