13-00000 
, APR 04 '97 10: 12AM 
PAGE 37 
.• i, 
56 Md. L. Rev. l, *32 
nl93. See Exhibit Eight infra p. 53 (observing that Oswald announced his 
plans to attend Swiss college, but that he never arrived to attend classes). 
nl94. See id. (documenting FBI 1 s request to Swiss police for information 
about Oswald) . 
- - - - - - -End Footnotes- - - - - - - -
XI. Of Times and Theories 
How to address the host of issues raised by these intelligence materials deperids 
on answers to two overriding questions~ The first is whether the passage of .time 
renders open that which currently requires postponement. The _second is whether, 
by adopting a particular theory about what happened in Dallas, the Board so 
fundamen~ally shapes its assumptions about the• significance of documents that it 
may actually fail to open the most critical of them. 
More than a third of a century has passed since the murder of v President_;.--- ':' j 
Kennedy. When asked whether the sources, methods,_and techniques used then are 
no longer worthy of protection today, the intelligence and law enforcement 
agencies appropriately answer no. n195 They argue that disclosure at any time 
will reduce their capabilities and, hence, our national security. nl9~ In·the 
world of intelligence operacions, all secrets must live· forever, lest we be 
unable to find new secrets in the future. 
~Fc;>otnotes-
nl9S. See supra notes 154-157 and accompanying text. 
n196. See. .supra....notes 154-157 and accompanying,text. 
- - - - .- - - - - - - - .;.End .Footnotes- - - .,. - - - - - - - - - - - - -
The passage of time, however, has made a difference, and in some instances 
dramatically so. There is today no soviet Union to which Lee Harvey Oswald could 
return. If he returned to Minsk, he would find it a capital of an independent 
nation, rather than a satellite of the Communist Empire. The Warsaw Pact has 
dissolved; the capitals of Eascern Europe now sport trendy shops and capitalist 
enterprises; Cuba survives by importing tourists from everywhere but the United 
States, and China has emerged as a major American mar~et. Not only is the Cold 
War dead, but so too are many of the principal figures in the assassination -
President Johnson, Robert F. Kennedy, John Connally, and Jacqueline Kennedy. The 
U-2 is regularly fea- [*33) tured on television documentaries; photographs 
from the once super-secret Keyhole surveillance satellites of the. 1960s and 
early 1970s leap from the pages of the current issues of Scientific American. 
nl97 There is no doubt that the CIA, FBI, and military intelligence services 
snooped on us and other nations, friend and foe. n198 The CIA in particular 
argues that current intelligence activities mu~t-remain plausibly deniable and 
that the Board's role should be to postpone the disclosure of actions taken a 
third-of-a-century ago that conceivably could compromise current operations. 
Yet, we might reasona}:)ly ask ourselves, as the Board has, whether, three decades 
lat.er, we would compromise our security interests around the world by indicating 
that a CIA station once existed in Moscow. 
.. - - - - - - - - - - • • • - - - • - Footnotes- • - - - - - - - - - • • - - - -
P.37/44 
