:J7G SECTION 107. -ECURITY HfFORI1AliTS .AND COlfl''IDI!..LAL SOURCES 
( 6) After inform:>.nt authenticates his s·tatement, contacting Agent 
should prepare a cover sheet, form FD-306~ which should be stapled 
to it and thereafter the statement should be handled as a 
written one in accordance with instructions set out in 2, a~ 
( 10} , and ( 11) . 
(7) Oral information furnished by informant purely of lead value 
should be incorporated in an office memorandum by the Agent 
and should no·t be initialed by the informan·t or exhibitE..d to­
him or treated as evidence. 
3. Transmission of information 
a. Statements should be personally delivered to contacting Agent by 
informan·hs whenever possible. Careful consideration should be 
given to full security of all such personal contacts. 
b, They should never be mailed to field office or resident agency, 
c. If they cannot be ob"!:;ained personally by contacting Agent, obtain 
confidential post office boxes for their receipt. 
d. Confidential post office boxes should be obtained under fictitious 
names and not under names of persons who may be listed in post office 
directory. 
e. More than one informant may send statements to a specific post office 
box, but oonsiderati~n should be given to obtaining post office,boxe~ 
in different post office stations to prevent suspicion on part of 
post office employees. 
f. Envelope enclosing statement should have return address of another 
confiden•l;ial post office box obtained under a fic•l;itiou.s name in the 
same manner as d. 
g. Statements should be oolle.cted at post office boxes re;'11larlyJ 
but time of pickup should be varied. Work out system of rotation 
whereby same Agent or Agents will not appear at same post office box 
for any extended period of time. 
h, When informant receives information of vital and immediate interest 
to Bureau 9 he should furnish it as promptly as possible to contacting 
Agent or office by most appropriate means of communication. Office 
should take any necessary action without delay. 
4, Handling of lead information 
a, All lead information obtained from informant mus·!; be run out to 
a logical conclusion. 
b, If there is only partial name of individual or meager descriptive 
data, and if there is sufficient data available to do so, file should 
be opened and assigned to effec·b an identification and to ·take any 
necessary action. 
c. If there is insufficient information to warrant opening case, 
a tickler card should ~e prep~red t~ follow with the informant and 
take other iogical steps in an effort to obta:i ,1 additional ident1fyi ng 
data concerning the individual. Tickler card& should be restricted 
to information which would warrant investigatl/. if an identity.is 
established, This will eliminate inconsequential items, but at the 
same-time definite steps mu.st be taken to run out affirmative informa­
tion. If no identification is made after reasonable effor~, prepare 
memorandum for informant 1 s subfile. If an identification is made, 
a file should be opened and any necessary action taken in connection 
therewith. 
5. Handling documentary material furnished by informants 
a. Pamphlets and similar documentary mater1 .i furnished by informants 
should have placed thereon the informant 1 s code name, 
b. Informant should affix date he received the matorial. If informant. 
cannot recall date of receipt, the date he ·furnished material should 
be affixecl. • 
c, No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, 
permanent symbol numbe-r of informant, file numbers, indexing symbols, 
etc,, should be placed on documentary material by Agents or clerical 
personnel. 
12 
5-13-61 
· NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1535 
( 
