13-00000 
For example, one cable was files and processed 58 times in 
the collection. 
b. The ARRB required that all sanitized documents be 
reviewed by the Board and that each postponement (deletion} 
be acted on individually. Even after the Board changed 
procedures and accepted staff recommendations· instead of 
reviewing each document, the detailed tracking, recording 
and coding of every deletion within each document req,:iired 
_processing resources well beyond what would be considered 
reasonable for such a project. A most sanitized documents 
contained multiple deletions (one contained more than 1600 
deletions and many over 100}. 
Inflexible Standards: The level of evidence required 
by the Board to postpone what was generally considered 
protectable information was extremely high and usually 
required docmentation of "current harm". Defenses based on 
general principles such as official cover or sources and 
methods were not acceptable. This required the Agency to 
dedicate significant resources to prepare evidence to 
support recommended postponements. Again, much time was 
spent on issues that were. marginal to the JFK story. For 
example, several major evidence packages involving several 
offices and presentations by senior agency officers and 
officials were needed to secure Board agreement to protect 
Agency physical locations and names of employees and other 
persons not related to the JFK story. 
Three times µuring the six years of the project, including 
most of this past year, the JFK review effectively shut down 
all other aspects of the Historical Review Program and had 
to borrow additional resources from other offices and review 
projects to meet deadlines. The JFK review will continue to 
require a significant portion of HRP's resources through 
FY99. 
II. The Process 
There are a number of basic lessons from the JFK review 
that are applicable to other historical/systematic·review 
projects: 
* We need reviewers with broad Agency experience, which 
can be either managerial or substantive. 
* We need to ·establish early on what information is 
already in the public domain and address the issue of 
"official release" in the context of each project. 
* Develop a strategy/policy with the IROs concerning the 
release of information. Be smart about it; do no_t accept 
stonewalling by them on,__relevant information that can-be 
