13-00000 
PUBLIC LAW 102-526-0C'l'. 26, 1992 106 flrAT. 8453 
accoUDting or a:penditures during lta exfatence, and shall complete 
all other reportirig requirements under this Ad.. 
(3) UJ)()n termination and wmd[1_1g !JP, tho Review Board ,ball 
transfer all or lta recorda to the Al'chinst tor Inclusion ln the 
Collection. and no record or ~ Review Board ahall be destroyed. 
SEC. 8. ASSASSINA1tON aEOOB.DS IUME'W'BOABD l"DSONNEL. 
(a) ExEctmw Dnu:croa.-{1) Not later than "5 ~ aft.er 
the initial meeting or the Review ~ ~ Bniew Board ahall 
appoint one citizen, without ~ to po11tical aBillation. to the 
po,ltion of Executive Director. : • . 
(2) The person ap~ted u ExeculiTe Director ahal1 be a 
private citluii or lntegzjty and lmpartiallfi)' who la a cilstlngu1ahed 
professional and who is not a P-i'eaont ~ or 8rJ1 l>rucb 
of the Government and baa baa no Pr'Oriowi Involvement with 
8Jll oa;icial inv~tion or inqwl7 relating to tho ■11111faation 
of President John F. Kazmed_r. . 
(3XA) A candidate (or Executive Director mall be granted the 
necesaazy aecurity clearances ln an acce1erat.ed m&JUW' ~ec:t 
to the standard .P.~ures to=~such clearances. • CB) A candidate ahal1 q • tor tho necaas:17 eec:urity clear• 
an.ce prior to being api,roved b1 e Review Board. . 
(4) The Executive Director ahall-
- (A) serve as ~pal lfalson to Govemmeat offices; 
. (B) be res~n::le tor the admlnlstratfon and coordination of the Review •• revieworrecordr, 
(C) I-· --,.ponsible Cor the ac!mlmstraf!cm or all officlal 
activities conducted b1 the Renew Boazd: and • 
CD) haTe no auth::;l to decldo err· determine whether any 
reoord should be d1stl to the public ar postponed (or c:llsclo-
sure. . 
(5) The Executive Director shall not be remoTed !or reasons 
other th8JI by a ma.forit)' vote or the Review Board !or cauae on 
the ,rrouncls of hiefnclency, neglect or duty, mal!eaaance 19. office, 
ph111cal diaa.billty, mental lnc:apaclty, or ~· other condition that 
substantiallf impairs the performance of the-responail,Wties or the 
Executive Director or the 1tafl" o!the Review Boara.. 
• (b) SrAFF.-{1) The Review Board·~, ln accordance with 
the civil service laws but without tePrd to civil eenice law and 
regulation for COll!petitive service as cfef:ined ln sabcbapter 1, chap­
ter 33 of title 6, United• States Code, appoint and•terininate addi, 
tional personnel as are n~ to enable the Review Board and 
its Executive Director to p~orm ita duties. . 
(2) A person appointed to the staff of the Review Board shall 
be a private citizen or integrity and impartiality who la not a 
present employee of any b~cb or the Government and who has 
had no previous involvement with any o_mcial lnvestlntion or 
inquiry. relating to the assaaslnatlon of President John F. Kennedy. 
(3)(A) A candidate Cor stafI' shall be ~ted the neces88J)' 
security clearances in an accelerated manner subject to the atandaril 
procedures Cor ~tinR such clearances. • 
(B) A candidate ror the stafI' shall q~ !or the ne01!8W')' 
security clearance prior to ~ approved ~ the 'Bevlew Board. 
• (c) CoMPENSATION.-The Review Board ahall fix the com­
pensation or the Executive Director and other ~nnel ln accord• 
a.nce with titJe 5, United States ~ except that the rate of 
pay for the Executive Dil'eCtor and o~er persozinel may not exceed 
« USC !101 
DOte. 
; 106 flrAT. 3454 PUBLIC LAW 102-626-0CT. 26, 1992 
,~ USC2101 
note. 
Fedenl 
~r. pu6Ucatlo11. 
the rate payable (or level Vo(the Executive Schedule ir.nder. section 
5316 ort&at title. I 
(d) ADVISORY CoMMlTl'EES,-{1) The Beview Boatd shall have 
the authority to create advisory committees to assist in fulfilling 
the ~nai&Wtlea or the Review Board under this Act.I 
(2) Any advisol:'1 committee creaU:!J; the Review Board shall 
be iubject to the Federal Advisory Co ttee kt (6 U.S.C. App.). 
SEC. t. REVIEW Ol" aEOOB.DS BY 'l'BB ASSASSINATION RECORDS 
IUMBW BOARD. 
(a) CUSTODY OP REooRDS REvlEwED BY BoAJU>,_;,P~nding the 
outcome or the Review Board's review activity, a Government office 
shall retain cuatod.y or lta assa.ulnation. records for, purposes or 
preservation. sec:urllif, and eflieleney, unleu- ' 
(1). the Review Board requires the physical tnmafer or 
records Cor reaaona or conducting an Independent and impartial 
review;or , 
(2) such transfer la D~ for an administrative hearing 
or other offid.al Review Board functlon. . . 
(b) SrAlfflJP R!QtJIR.BMEH'l'8.-'l'he Review Board s~-
(1) not latedhan 90 dafS after the date ofita appointment; 
P.ubllsh a aehedule Cor review of all aaaaaaination reoords in 
the Federal ~ter; and (2) not later than 180 ~ after the date of enactment 
of this Ad., begin lta review of aaaaBBinstJon reoorda UDder 
thlsAd... • · , I , 
(c) ·DB'l'ERJUNATIONS Ol" THB Rzvmw BoAJU>.-{1) The Review 
Board ,ball direct that all USBIBUl&ti0n. records be ~tranal1litted 
to the Archlvilt and disclosed to the public ln the ',iOllection in 
the absence of clear and convincing evidence that-
• CA) a Government recorcl la not an aaaaaainatlon record; 
or (B),a Government reoord or particular information within 
an aaaassinstion record qualifies (or postponement or public 
disclosure UDder this Act. . . 
(2) In appro~-postponement o(.public cliaeloaurc ·or nn asso.s• 
aination record. the ,Review Board shall seek to- . 
1 
CA) provide tor the disclosure of segregable • parts, sub­
stitutes, or summaries or such a record; and 
(B) determine ln consultation with the originating body 
and consistent with the standards for postponement under this 
Act. which of the following alternative Corms of diaclosure shall 
be maae by the originating body: 
1 
(i) Any reasonably segregable particular information 
in an aasasalnation record. • 1 
(ii) A substitute record (or that information which is 
postponed. 
(ill) A summaey of an aasasaination record .. 
(3) With respect to each asaaaaination record or particular 
information in aaauslnatlon records the public diselosqre of which 
is postponed pursuant to sect.ion 6, or for which only substitutions 
or summaries have been disclosed to the _Public, the Review Board 
shall create and transmit to the ArehlVlBt a report eontaininJ-
CA) a description or actiona by the Review Board, the ongi• 
nat.ing body, the President. or any Government office (including 
a juaUfieaUon of any such action to postpone disclosure or 
any record or part of any record) and of any official proceedings · 
