13-00000 
.. 
g. Mail censorship. All mail coming from the military 
camp in Guatemala was censored by this group before being released 
for transmittal to Cuba. 
h. Four of thf-s:were sent back to Cuba with instructions 
to report on CI targets; chiefly the secret service and the police. 
3. The second group trained by Morales were 100 selected 
Cubans who were given training as future CI officials and civil 
government officials. Of the 100 thus trained, 61 were sent to 
the camp in Guatema.J.a for training with the brigade. They 
accompanied the brigade on the invasion, and of the 61 only two 
were lost, nine were caught and the rest got out, due to the 
circumstance that most of them were on the steamer ;J;,Ake_Charles 
which owing to the developments at the beaches did not land its 
troops. These men were given the job of penetrating inland as 
fast as possible with the troops and identi¥,ng and seizing records 
and documents of the • Castro government. Following that they were 
to set up the temporary civilian government of Cuba. This group were 
y,~r/, known as .the AMFATS. • The members of this group were brought back 
to Miami where they are now living privately. The third group were 
the AMCHEBRS, a group of approximately 100 older, nonpolitical 
individuals, who received training from Morales as a reserve i:n 
intelligence personnel. Eighty of these had been trained by April 
1961 for eventual legal return. 
4. Morales stressed that POA' s bad been received on members of 
all three groups and that the AMors received tradecraft training 
far in excess of that received by the average Agency staff employee. 
5. After the invasion the Frente leaders endeavo/a. to change 
the AMOl1S'.int6 a political organization and remove the chief leaders 
of the AMor group. Such a development had been anticipated by the 
base and prior to that action all files, the most valuable part of 
the AM~ organization.had been microfilmed (see my interviews with 
Simmonst~ more details on this protective maneuver). The chief 
AMors who were thus removed by the Cuban leaders a.re still organized 
under Morales as a shadow intelligence organization. 
6. Personnel shortages. Morales accomplished all of the 
foregoing with the aid of only two girl~ one a GS-9 analyst. He 
tried in vain for more than three months to get a junior case officer 
assigned, but in vain. This request was forwarded through Simmons, 
the CI Chief in WH/4. Morales tried to get one or both of two Jors 
who were in Miami on TDY, but the Jor office refused to release them 
tea on the grotmd that it would interfere with their training. 
Morales feels that these y~ung officers would have learned more in 
- 2 -
