107U 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
SEC'i'ION 10~ ) SECURITY 
• 
··, 
COUFI ;'TIAL 
• 
INFORMA:HTS AND SOURCES 
Utilization 
a, If confidential source is to be used for assistance in security 
inYe ~tig;,.tionr, secure Bureau approval, and background data must 
be furnished to th1.:: Bureau of the s.:>.me type which is required 
for po)ential security informants. 
b. Except in espion~.ge and foreign nationality m:.:.tters i·n which the 
frequency of contact is dependent upon cirournst:,.noes of the individual 
case, confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained should 
also· be cont:-i..cied at least once every tvro weeks in the sam;; manner 
as security informants. 
c. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted. . 
d, Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by t!le Agent 
or -Agents specific?..lly designated for thid ,·,:rq:ose. 
e. The letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use a subject 
as a confidential source 5s ·co set out clearly the follo,·r.i.ng informa-
tion: . 
(1). Background infprmation, including date and place of birth, 
citizenship status, residence, -empl-oyment, credit and arres·c 
record, and service record, if any 
(2). Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together with the results of any 
interYiews conducted with him 
( 3) .A statement to the effect subject is being considered a con­
fidential source and that he will be advised he is not a 
B1.treau employee and of the confi{l.ential nature of his relation­
ship with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be .advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters, 
f. One of the required copies of ·!;he letter requesting authority to use 
a subject as a confidential source should consist only. of the first 
page of the letter. If the request is approved at the Bureau, a 
stamped nota'&ion will be placed on the single-1mge copy and it wiil 
be returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to. 
con~ider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subject is 
sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background information 
obtained. • 
Security confidential sources - certifi6atic-n of stability and payments 
a. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to _security- confidential 
sources. See 107N,. 3b, for form of lette-r. . • 
). If the security source is not being paid on Bureau authorization and 
is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source must dictate 
a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification 
as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters. 
Gifts • 
Gifts should not be 
misconstrued, 
Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau[of the date)when 
the reasons therefor. 
' .J' •• • ~ -- •• ' • • • 
confidential source is discontinue~, and 
28 
4-13-64 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1462 
{ •. 
.1 
