13-00000 
04i'23/87 WED 15:53 FAX 202 724 0457 
-\~~L_,.,,;..._ --• ~ •-.--- -- ll!,IUU6, 
.. ~ . 
Assassination Records Review Board 
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO • 
·DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR • 
AEI E68E OF THIS DOCUMENT 
Guidelines for Review of Postponements in the Segregated Collectlons 
Adopted:. April 23, 1997 
Background 
In order to ensure that the Review Board wlll be able to complete Its task of reviewing 
all identified assassination records, the Board recently took two significant steps .. First, 
on November 13, 1996, it adopted guidelines with respect to reviewing "Segregated 
Collections• with regard to Information that is "not believed relevant" (NBA) to the · 
assassination. Second, in February 1997, the Review Board requested Congress to 
extend its tenure for one additional year. • 
It is the Review Board's Judgment that, even with the assumption that our operations 
may be extended through Rs~I Year 1998, the Review Board cannot hope to complete 
review of postponements ln•the Segregated Collections underthe current method of 
review. In particular,: a reasonc1ble modification of.curren\ postponement standards • • 
would greatly expedite and facilitate the release.ofadditlonaJ·lnformatlon and records. 
Otherwl$e, the Review Board· might cease operations without having reviewed claimed 
postponements In tens of thousands of pages of FBI and CIA records. 
Postponement Criteria for the Segregated Collections 
In a further effort to enhance the Review Board's work, the Review Board now issues 
these revised guldenn,s for the. review of records in the Segregated Collectlons.1 
(These guidelines do not affect the FBl's Core and Related Flies or the CIA's 201 file on\ 
Oswald.) The four priricipal factors that underlie these review guidelines are: first, • 
continuing, to the greatest reasonable extent; the Review Board's estabUshed 
guidelines for postponemen~ that have emerged over the past two years; second, 
establishing guidelines oorislstent with the Revlew:Board's decision regarding NBA 
recQrds; third, establishing reasonable and workable guldellnes that will enable the. 
1The regulations adopted by the Board .on November 13, 1996, define 
11
Segregated Collections• as Including first, FBI records that were requeste~ by: (a) the 
House Select Committee on Assassinations ("HSCA'i in conjunction with Its • • 
Investigation Into the Kennedy assassination; (b) the Church Committee in conjunction 
with Hs inquiry Into Issues relaJed to the Kennedy assa.sslnation; and (c) by other bodies 
(e.g., Pike Committee, Abzug Committee, etc.) that relate to the Kennedy • 
assassination; and second, CIA records including (a) the CIA's Sequestered Collection 
of 63 boxes as well as one box of mlcrofllm records and the microfilm records (box 64), 
and (b) several boxes of CIA staff "working files." 
