526 ORGANIZED CRI::VIE AND ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS,. 
of n hoo11lum who is entrusted by the l\Iafia to act as a courier for them between 
the ,·a riou,; groups. 
Cotied1in mis born on Fehrunry 2:;, Hl20, in Cinrinnnti, Ohio. \\'hen he was 
arrestt•d a couvle of years ago, he ga,·e ns hi,; occu11ation '•industrial linancicr." 
He is presently reported to be interC':;tcd in the opl'l'ation of :l ('0lll(>nny u!r'ering 
wired music in the Chicago area known as SymJJhonairl:! Sound Syste1m1, Inc. 
His criminal reconl shows thnt he was tirst arrested in rnau 111 Ohio for 
ro!Jhery. In 1037 he was nrrested in :IIiami, Fln., for inYcstigation of a •·shake­
down." He was held for 4 days and released without charges. He was arrested 
again in Hot S11ring-s. Ark., in 11)3H for iuvestigation aud released with tile u11der­
st1111din~ that he would lean• the city. 
In 1!)38, in Cle,·elaml, Coticchia was arrested and charged with assault with 
intcut to ('Ollllllit rnpc. He was c0111·icted and received 1 to 1ii years, of which 
he ser\'etl -1 years, heing released in 1\l-H. Ile was arrested in 1!H2 in Los An:::eles, 
Calif., on a m1rrant issuell in Baltimore for grand theft. He was tried in Balti­
-more for rpceiving stolen goods nml re<'ein•d:; years in prii-:011. 
CoticC'hia 1Yns a;::-nin arrester! in Dallas. Tex., in lDGl, by the U.S. marshal.~ 
for violation of anti for consviring to l'iolate the Federal SP<·nrities nn!I I·}xd1:111ge 
Act of 1033, whi<-h t'n:se is still pending iu tile Southern Distriet Court of New 
Yori,. His Inst arrest lrnown to us was on ,January 4. l!JG3. when he wns ar­
rested in Tnmpn for inYestigation of grand larceny. He was released due to 
insufficient evi(lenC'e. 
Coti<'.t·hia worked a.~ a "pit boss" in gambling casinos in Las Yegns, Nev., and 
Hanrna. Cuha. IIe was innilve!l in a seamlal· iu lUG0 in whid1 wobsters at­
tempted to take oYer n nationwide bail !Jolld business. 
Cotiechia has been in and out of 'Trnn[la sin('e our first obserrntion of him and 
on e1·cry OC'('U$ion he is in direct eo11tnet with Traflie:rnte and Dieeidue. On 
DecPmhc-r 31, l!JG2, he [IUrchased a new automobile in Tampn, paying the dc-nler 
$~.G:2:i.!J:i in cash. He then rei;istere1l the cnr imtler the name of ,Jane Campbell. 
He rPrnaincd in Tampa several days and was in constant contact with Trafilcante 
and Dieeidne. 
011 .J:munry 4. lnG3. Coticd1ia was nrrrsterl in Tampa on su~picion of grand 
larceny and at the time of his arrest he lwcl $1.77;i in eash on his person. He 
had papers on him that showed he had resille!I 11revinusly at the Aloha l\lotel in 
l\liami under the name Luiz l'anlino Bailey from Rio de ,Janeiro, Brazil. He 
also had a vriper with a list of ;.;-amllling-equipment aml the name "Empress 
Lines, Ltd., Nassau-via Wappcn Von Jlam/mrg-Germnn boat loading pier 
No.3." 
An inn~stigation re,·cnled this e(Jnipment hnd been shipperl airfreii::ht from 
Las \'egns to Nassan and placetl in a German 1·essel, the Wa11pc11 ron llamliurg, 
whi<-h sails betwe!'l1 Nassau and Miami. This equi11111Pnt i11cluded r.o one·urm 
lrnrnlits, or slot mac·hines, and was nllued in excess of SG:0.000 .. The information 
rcceiYe1! was that this \'essel was to truYel between .Miami aml Nassau as n 
floating- gambling casino. 
After Colicd1ia's arre;:t in Tampa, the telephone calls IYCre checkN! at the 
motel. It showl'<l that he hnd matle ;;eYeral calls to Trnflicn11te. Diecillue. and 
other associates of Traflkante. Ile hall also made a lon.t:•tlistnnc·e call to Sonny's 
Hestaurant in Miami Bench, which is ownPd hy Thomas Altamuru, FBI No. 
r.u:m3. a :Ila fin member nm! another associate of Santo Trafficante, .Jr. 
I would like to submit for the record Coticchia's FBI record, nml a photograph 
of him taken by wy department when he was arrested in Tampa on January 
4, l!lG:t 
Another example of the Trufficnnte group's connections with :l[afia figures in 
other parts of the Nntion is: John Joseph Vitnle, FBI No. 7(!:32:0U, of St. Lonis, 
Mo. Yitale is well known to the St. Louis l\Ictropolitnn Police Devartment, and 
is i·eputetl to be the :\!alia lea<ler in that area. He has a record of 13 arrests 
and a conviction for violating the Harrison Narcotics Act for which he received 
a sf'ntPnl'e of 7 years' impri,;onment. He has been arrested ns a fence and is 
belie,·ecl to deal in nnything in which th·ere is a large percentage of profit. 
l'olice authorities consider him among the most dangerous of :lfafia principal.~ 
in the St. Louis area, and he is known to have underworld connections through­
out the country. He appeared twice before the Senate Ilackets Committee 
(August rn, rn::;s, and February 11, rni'.i!l) and each time refused to unswer any 
questions, invoking the fifth amenrlment. 
On April 17, HJG3, Vitale flew from St. Louis to Tampa, using the name "Jack 
How'nrd." Ile visited the Diecidues tor 4 hours and then flew back to St. Louis 
NW 50955 Docid:32423630 Page 666 
ORGA: 
using the snru 
there, Ile was 
tra ,·eled to T 
)lo., to the llh 
To Ille it II 
trouble of llyi 
between two 1 siguitican!ly, 
doubts that h, 
These two 
connections of 
the :\latia grou. 
Mr. O'Do~ 
Mr. 13r:ow 
gave sworn 
ID53 concen 
long Geen en 
to testify Ol' 
uee11 grantee 
those who te 
Nick Scaglio 
1\Ir. 0'1)m 
you ham intr 
Mr. Br:mn 
Mr. O'DoN 
Mr. I3r:owN 
cal .Mafia tech 
prises by the , 
This incident 
deeply inrnlv 
major interes1 
l The case w: 
officer, Detect 
the operation 
racket of consi 
based upon in1 
lottery. 
An attempt 
operation of ti 
suits of clothi 
with the full 
had immedintr 
As n. result 1 
were nrrested. 
The CnAnor 
Mr.BnowN. 
The Cn,ur:;11 
he is the boss? 
Mr. BnowN. 
Each receive< 
viction wns lat! 
term nncl was 
indicted by the 
1Ve know of 
by Santo Traffic 
