[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ . [ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
4. 
5. 
6. 
SECT.[ON 107. ~ 1.JRITY DiFORMJ\N'fS J,ND CONFIDENT , SOURCES 
!'our-month ev'aluatio~f informant, not p>.ld on Tiuret authority 
If the informant is not being paid on Bure~:u authorizationt a corr.rnuni­
cation must. be transmitted to the Bureau every four months after the 
date of designation containing the same information set out above in 
subsection 3b except those items concerning paymentn. Recornrnenclation 
• of SAC regarding continuance of informant should also be set ~orth UACB. 
In espionage and foreign nationality cases comment is necessary regarding 
only those applicable items in subsection 3b. 
Receipts 
When pa)'1t1ents are made to anyone for information or assistanc:e on security 
matters, either on the SAC•s authority or on ~rior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obtained in every ins·bance in which it is possi l)le to do so. If a 
:recr,ipt cannot be ol>taincd for a particular payment, complete circumstances 
should be set forth on the b1ue slip at the time reim11ursement is claimed. 
a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes ~ecessary to introduce the receipts in evidence 
during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate to o·bher 
documents or files. • 
b. Receipts should clearly show: 
l
l) Date on which payment was made 
2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis 
3) Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for cervices 
or expenses where these items are pertinent 
(
5
4) Uame of Agent making payment 
( ) Signature of person receiving the money 
c. Receipts arc not to be witnessed by another Agent. 
d. If necessary to make cor1·ections on ·!;he receipts, such corrections 
must be initialed by the informant and not by the .Agent, 
e. When trancmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to the 
Bureau, they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, ·1eaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contaot with the .A.coo fastener punch. The staples should be 
placed in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on the 
receipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Care must 
be taken that receipts are of such a natu"t'e that they clearly show 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary ~aterial 
contained in Bufiles. 
Income tax returns 
a. Informants who receive compensation for their services to the Bureau 
should be advised that such compensation must be reported as income 
when filing an income tax return. 
["1,.J Bureau income should be set forth under item5 on·page one.of the 
Federal income tax return, r·orm 1040, and explained under part V, [ 3,] 
schedule B, of the return as income received from other sources for 
personal services rendered through a private enterprise or similar 
general term applicable to informant's position and station in life. 
[c. If the informant is self-employed and files a schedule C ·as a self­
employed individual, it may be possible to include his Bureau income 
with his self-employed income from other sources without revealing 
connection with the Bureau. • 
d. Efr°ective 1-1-6.5, in those instances in which the informant can'.not 
report payments receiYed from the Bureau for services without jeop­
ardizing his security as an informant, such payments will be subject 
to a 20 per cent withholding tax. There are four categories of 
circumstances in which taxes will not be withheld. Taxes a.re not ·to 
be withheld from payments made (1) to other than security informants 
and sources, (2) for reimbursement of expenses, (3) under SAC • 
authority, or (4) to ·informants who have been able to ·report Bureau 
income on their Federal tax returns without jeouardizind tbeir securitv 
or without challenge from the Internal Revenue Serrice. 
0 
Each office • 
has detailed instructions and exhibits concerning the procedure to 
be followed in the handling and control of money withheld.] 
20 
9-18-64 "NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1425 
( 
I ... l 
- ..., I 
! 
' I 
I - ' ' j 
