87D 
D. 
[ 
[ 
') 
SECURITY INVESTIGATIOi,. 
INVESTIGATION'S OF INDIVIDUALS - POLICY AND OBJECTIVES 
l. Dei'ini tions 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Follo;·:ing organizations are [examples of ]"basic revolutionary 
organizations." 
a. C-ommun5.st Party, USA 
b. Sociall st Workers Party 
c. Progressive Labor Party 
d. Proletarian Party of America 
e. Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico 
f. [Revolutionary Union] 
Black nationalist extremists and members of Puerto Rican nationalist 
groups and Puerto Rican s·ubversive proindependence groups, al though 
•;;echnically not members of basic revolutionary organizations, should 
be inirestigated under _same rules·. (See section 122, volume IV, of_ 
this manual.) 
FBI responsibility 
To conduct thorough inves~igations into background and activities of . 
all persons in U. s. and Puerto Rico who are dangerous or potentially 
dangerous to internal security. Each SAC is responsible for investi­
gation of persons in his area who, because of membership or affiliation 
with basic revolutionary organizations or other Marxist revolutionary 
organizations including splinter groups, may be potentially dangerous. 
Purposes of investigation 
.a. ,Determination of dangerousness 
To determine identity, whereabouts, an~ activities of all individuals 
in U.S. and Puerto Rico who, because of their membership in, activity 
in, or association with one or more revolutionary groups or related 
groups, are dangerous or potentially dangerous to internal security; 
collection of sufficient information concerning their subversive ac­
tivities to justify apprehension in national emergency. 
b. Determination of violations of Federal statutes 
To determine identity, whereabouts, and activities of all individuals 
w~o have been or may be violating laws of U.S. . 
(1} Direct investigation to obtain admissible evidence to establish 
• violation. 
(2) Be alert for violation of Federal statutes relating to espionage, 
sabotage, and sedition. 
Individuals to be investigated 
Exercise sound judgment and discretion in evaluating importance and 
dangero~sness of individuals or affiliates. Investigate activities 
of any individual falling within one or more of following categories 
;1ho does not come within restrictions on investigations listed under 
87D, item 5, below: • 
a. }rembership in basic revolutionary organizations subsequent to 1-1-49 
b. Espousing line of revolutionary movements 
Espousal encompasses wide variety and range of activities. Actual 
membership in basic revolutionary organization is not prerequisite. 
Espousal may be expressed by membership or active participation in 
subversive front groups. Open investigation in every instance in 
which subject is actively engaged in .affairs of s-u.bversive front 
organization in leadership capacity or by active participation 
in furtherance of aims and purposes of front organizations. Do 
not open on mere membership in front organization unless there is 
past membership at any time in basic revolutionary organization or 
other subversiv~ derogatory information. 
o. Special training 
(1} Training in subversive movement abroad 
(2) Leadership training in basic revolutionary organization 
d. }lilitary service 
(1} Service in Abraham Lincoln Brigade; membership in basic 
revolutionary organization not prerequisite 
(2} Service in military forces of any country, including U.S. 
armed forces, whenever individual has ever been member of 
basic revolutionary organization 
18 
8-13-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1966 
(_, 
( 
