1 -
~ 
. ~ -\r-
1 
- -- ; 
• ' <• ) 
February 8, 1960 
-CRASH OF NATIONAL AIRLINES DC-SB 
BOLIVIA,. NORTH CAROLINA 
JANUARY 6, 1960 
DESTRUCTION OF AIRCRAFT OR MOTOR VEHICLES 
On January 6, 1900, a National Airlines DC-6B plane crashed 
at Bolivia, Norih Carolina, killing all 34 occupan-l;s. The body of one 
passenger, Julian Andrew Frank, was found abou-t 20 miles j'rom the crash 
scene. Frank, a i'lew York attorney, carried ins1,1,rance of $·997,500 
and was reportedly engaged in fraudulent activities. 
Investigation at the scene of the crash, including examination 
of available parts of the plane reassembled in a 11"TJ7,ock up," has been 
} 
conducted by Civil Aeronautics Board inves-tigators. They have been 
, unable to reach a definite conclusion as to the cause of the crash. 
Franlr:- 1 s body, which was J~n-und near Kure Beach, Nortii Carolina, 
bore_ only remnants of c lathing. The ,":Jody was mangled and -the lower 
) 
portion of the lej
1
t arm and oj' both legs were missing. His luggage, 
which repor-tedly consisted of a zipper-type blue flight .bag and a 
brown leather attache case, has not been located. 
FBI Laboratory examination of Frank's right hand and part; 
of his right arm, foreign material removed j'rom his hand and arm and 
portions o.f' clothing found on his body re vealed no explosive residue. 
)
Pathologists who-examined Frank's body have advised that his body 
had the appearance of having been subjected to a severe force of u nusua 1 
nature and they believe his injuries resembled blast damage but they 
cannot definitely identij~ them as such. According to the pathologists, 
similar wounds have .jeen observed o.ri' victims oj' land mine explosions. 
PEI Laboratory examination of a life jacket found at Kure Beach 
\ 
on January 28, 1960, disclosed some nitrate present in a diriy smeared 
deposit ·i~n an area of the jacke-t in which were imbedded metal fragments 
j'rom a 2ipper and pieces oj' blue material. Numerous small blue fragments 
j'rom ·the I (re jacke -1; and from u nide ntif ied c Io-;h i ng Jou nd a-;; the crash 
scene were determined to be similar and appear to correspond to the 
material which composes blue flight bags sold by various airlines. 
l 
These j'indings are consistent with what would be expected as a result 
oj' a detonatio-n of a high-order -type of explosive. These .findings 
are not conclusive and additional ma-.:erial from the scene oj' the crash 
wi 11 be exam i'hed as received by the FBI Laboratory in an ef/or t to 
reach a definite conclusion. 
l · Ex·censive investigation of the activities of Frank has failed 
to develop any direct evidence to date that he was responsible for 
the crash. The investigation of his activities and of the· accivities 
o j' h i s as s o c i a -i; es i s co n ti nu i n, g • Th i rt y - two i n v es t i ga i; i u e r e o o rt s h c, u e 
been dissemi·1~ted to the Department and to the Civil heronau~ics Board. 
/
/ ' 
c·. · ..... I ' ·' 
