j• 
I 
-~ 
' l 
: 
., 
c· 
( 
9. 
PART II 6A - B 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
In cases involving bomb_ings having an apparent racial or religi-.ous basis 
with the resultant public interest, the SAC should issue a statement to 
the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to 
actively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them 
eyery possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the· Bureau's. full 
laboratory and identifi.cation facilities, to further assist them by han­
dJ.ing out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts 
that may indicate any Federal violation. At no •time should this statement 
indicate that-the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility for 
the incident be either assumed or dec],ared. The issuance of this- state­
ment requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
10. In contacts with the press concerning a bank robbery, bank burglary., or 
bank larceny no information should be volunteered concerning the 
amount of loot obtained. Specific questions by members of the press 
concerning amount of loot may be answered only following the arrest of 
an individual or individuals for violation of the Federal bank robbery 
statute. . 
11. Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press 
release file if exists. 
12. In connection with service awards to Bureau personnel, SACs may provide 
news media with a photograph and a brief biographical sketch of employee. 
No employee may submit to a personal interview by a newsman in connection 
with such an award or under any other circumstances, for that matter, 
without prior Bureau authority. This does not preclude an SAC or other 
Bureau official from issuing news releases in accordance with existing 
Bureau policy. 
13. Bureau personnel, including SACs and ASACs, are not to participate 
in give-and-take news conferences without prior Bureau authority 
including clearance by the Press Services Office. This will be 
permitted only in the rarest of circumstances where mitigating facts 
clearly indicate it is to the Bureau's best interests to participate. 
B. FBI LAW ENFORCEMENT BULLETIN 
This publication is issued the first of each month by the Bureau for the 
benefit of law enforcement agencies. 
1. Contents 
a. Foreword by the Director 
b. Interesting case write-ups 
c. Articles which might assist law enforcement officers 
d. Deleted 
2. Distribution 
Limited to law enforcement officers and others engaged in or having a 
legitimate interest in law enforcement work 
3. Filing and indexing 
a. In a 66 classification file, bound on the side, and fully indexed. 
Informative matter to be indexed under subject matter. For uni­
formity, the Bureau is to forward by routing slip to all divi­
sions each month an indexing list of the basic and pertinent 
items to be indexed. Index cards are to be prepared by each 
office. Any additional items not listed but considered to be 
worthy of indexing by a particular office should also be indexed. 
The indexing lists are to be destroyed after the field office 
inspection by FBIHQ. 
b. This file may be destroyed when it is over five years old. Retain 
index cards. 
c. Current copy should be placed in bookcase, available to all Agents. 
d. Deleted 
lb 
6-27-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1072 
