SECRET 
been unable to establish any Cuban connection 9 as in 
the case of the 139 guerrillas tried in Venezuela 
last fall. 
4. In the absence of a comprehensive statis­
tical approach, information on arrests, trials, 
and the involvement of Cuban trainees in subversive 
activities is given in the individual country re­
ports attached to this memorandum. 
F. Purpose and Propaganda 
1. Fidel Castro stated in July 1960: "We 
promise to continue making Cuba the example that 
can convert the Cordillera of the Andes into the 
Sierra. Maestra of the American continent.," For the 
past year Cuban spokesmen have been taking the line 
in public that Cuba provides the example for Latin 
American revolution, with the implication that nothing 
more than guidance need be expqrted. In private 9 they 
have been offering training and financial and technical 
assistance to Latin American revolutionaries. While 
Cuba's economic dependence on the USSR restrains a 
wholehearted endorsement of the more militant Peiping 
attitude, Guevara and Education Minister Armando Hart 
insist both in public speeches and in private remarks 
to visiting Communists that nsocialism" can be brought 
about in Latin America only by force. 
2. Direction and support by propaganda is on 
a massive scale. The work of Radio Havana and of the 
Prensa Latina news service is backed up by bulk mail 
and even air freight shipments. Postal and customs 
authorities in Panama, for instance, are destroying 
a monthly average of 12 tons of Cuban propaganda which 
is entering or being sent through Panama. Costa Rica 
averaged 10 tons in 1962. 
3. Radio Havana's international service, started 
in May 1961, now leads all Latin American international 
services in program hours. It broadcasts a weekly total 
of 188 hours of propaganda in languages including Spanish, 
Portuguese, Haitian Creolep English~ French 9 and Arabic. 
This includes 108~1/2 hours in Spanish to the Americas, 
7 hours in Portuguese, 7 hours in Haitian 9 and 17~1/2 
hours in English to the Western Hemisphere. It also 
originates black broadcasts on occasions such as the 
disorders in the Dominican Republic in late 1961, and 
makes transmitters available to Latin American exile 
groups. 
Attached annexes discuss Cuban training of Latin 
American subversives on a country-by-country basis. 
-1-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docid:32283208 Page 11 
