13-00000 
-' . 
·.•• .... : .... 
-
erence in the Department files -to the alleged lettcer from any Department of 
Justice official to Chief Curry nor any reference that an FBI official was ask~ 
to request. the Dallas police not to arrest Oswald or Ruby. A letter is being 
sent to the Commission today setting forth this information. 
Representative FORD. The point that I ·tlilnk ought to be made is tba.t despite 
the magnitude of the effort that bas been made by the FBI and by other agencies, 
and despite the tremendous effort that has been made, I believe, by the Com­
mission to help· and assist and to consolidate all of the evidence that we possibly 
could, that there is ahvays the possibillty at some future date that some evidence 
might come to the surface. 
Mr. HOOVER-That- is, of course, possible; yes. 
Representative FORD. I want just to be sure that no leads, no evidence regard.­
less of its credibility will be ignored, that it will be pursued by the Bureau or 
any -other agency to make certain that ,it is good, ba.d or of no vaiue. 
Mr. HOOVER. Well, I caµ assure you so far as the FBI is concerned, the case 
will be continued in an open classification for all -time. That is, any informa­
tion coming to us or any report coming to us from any source will be thoroughly 
Investigated, so -that we will oo able to either prove or disprove t~e allegation.· 
We found· In the course of our Investigations that Individuals have made state­
ments. Yet, when we investigate they will frank(y atlmlt that_ the statement 
is an entire falsehood, Pr· that they don't know why they wrote the· letter or 
why they made the sbltement. But, nevertheless, we have the record -and 
generally In those iustanc~ we try to get a signed statement from that lndivldual 
so it can be made a part of the record. 
Representative Foim. Under your authority.from tne President, the authority 
which gave you the FBI, the responslbillty ,to conduct this investigation it is 
not an authority with a ·terminal point. It is an authority that goes on 
lndeflnitely? 
Mr. HooVEL Very definitely so. The President wan_ted a full and thorough 
Investigation _ made o{ -this matter, and we have tried to do- so. As I have 
stated, I think we wlll continue to receive allegations. I think this will ·be a 
matter of controversy for years to come, just like the Lincoln assassination. 
There will be questions raised by individuals, either- for publicity purposes or 
otherwise, that wj.ll raise some new angle or new aspect of It. I think we must, 
o.nd certainly we intend in the FBI to continue to run down any such allegations 
or reports of that. kind. 
Representative Booos. Mr. Chairman. 
The CH.AIBMAN. -Yes, Congressman Boggs. 
- Representative Booos. Mr. Hoover, I -don'-t want any. cover-to cover- any 
ground wnich has been covered but I just have one or two questions. :r1rst, let 
me say that you and the Bureau have been very cooperative with tb,ls Commis­
sion. 
Mr. HOOVER. Thank you. 
Representative. Booos. And tremendously helpful. I have been concerned 
about some of these wild press reports and concerned about what impact it may 
have_ ultimately on the history -of this thing. For Instance there is a man 
named Buchanan who has written a series of articles. • 
Mr. DULLES; A book now. A book is out; yes. 
Representative Booos: A book now. I understand they have been widely 
circulated iJJ. the European press, and this man came ~ere and was, as I got it 
from s~me other sources, he took in soine people here, some American journal-· 
lats, and I am told that this man has a Communist ba~kground, and in addition 
to that is a most unreliable person. He has made these allegations that the 
Dallas police force was Involved in the assassination and so on. 
Would you .have any suggestions on how this Commi&aion should deal with 
this sort of . thing? 
• Mr. HOOVER. We have received a request rrom the. Commission to review that 
book and to make a report upon any portions of it that can be contradicted 
or substantiated by actual facts or documents. I know Buchanan's background. 
: He worked. on the Washington Star and he was dismissed from the Washington 
Star because he was a member of the Communist Party. He spent much of his 
time in recent years in France writing for French newspapers. I have fol-
100 
