13-09000 
l 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
1 MILITARY DEVEI..OPMENTS: 1------------
An intercepted Cuban military message of 5 December 
!indicated that the Cuban armed forces are 2 iiving instruction 
: in defense against chemical warfare. An-.€._~identified)mili­
tary unit in (!,a~ Villas) Province reported the selection of 
: two officers and four ·serge~~~s to attend a "chemical defense 
1
course." (USN-856, 2X/SL;t_CUI\o/T4O7-63, 6 December, SECRET SABRE) 
~ INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS: "" qq 1-------------
Moscow has given rather standard treatment to the OAS 
,meeting which heard the Venezuelan Government charge Castro 
:With illegal arms shipments. On 4 December, TASS correspond­
;ent •. Leonid Shakin reported that "the weavers of plots against 
revolutionary Cuba are still at it ... accusing it of delivery 
/of arms to Venezuela for 'subversive purposes'." Shakin found 
: "certain US circles are the most interester-~ • in this, as is 
!evident from the fact that representatives of the US State 
1Department declared at the meeting that the United States 
:would 'firmly support' additional economic and diplomatic 
:sanctions by the OAS against Cuba." He thought it unexcep­
itional that "these provocative attempts were not supported by 
1
the largest Latin American countries". and·warned that "such 
1
attempts to interfere in Cuban internal affairs are fraught 
I 
:with extremely harmful consequences for the cause of peace." 
,(C.IA/FBIS, Moscow; 4 December, UNCLASSIFIED) 
, CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION: 
Several weeks ago there were CAS reports that the storm­
!tossed peasants of Oriente looked on Hurricane Flora as the 
[vengeance of God--a God, who in the tradition of the Old 
!Testament's stern and sometimes vengeful Jehovah, had loosed 
: h_is fury on a pec,ple first seduced and now impressed by an 
1alien regime. Now a report from the US Naval Base at Guan­
itanamo Bay provides yet another insight into the frame of mind 
fof the Cuban populace. While the incidents pictured in this 
;report do not· necessarily reflect anything other than a com-
! bination of religious fervor and superstition, they are signifi­
, cant to the extent that they reflect the unrest--and, perhaps 
i a growing feeling of hopelessness and de~pair--current among 
,the Cubans. 
I In any case, there are prevalent locally tales of St. 
:Barbara's appearing several times to prophesy a change in the 
:regime or admonish errant youths to mend their ways. /Barbara, 
ivirgin daughter of the heathen Diosorus, was beheadedoy her 
:father near Heliopolis in 235 A.D. for embracing Christianity . 
. A fearful thunderclap is alleged to have greeted her execution. 
1
Symbolized by a windmill-like tower with three windows, the 
I type df fortr~ss in which her father was wont to confine her 
while he was absent from home, Barbara is the patroness of 
'artillerymen and miners. 
-1-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
