( 
107T-U 
4. 
5. 
' A\ 
SECTION 107. ··URITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDEN.L SOURCES. 
b. Pamphlets, brochures, etc., pre pared by pri va.te company for dis.tri ou­
t ion or sale to public. (This does not include highly technical 
pamphlets, even if unclassified, which are prepa-red for limited use 
and not intendDd for rele·ase to public.) 
Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be retained by office of origin of any documents or 
material related to national defense which is passed. 
b. Such material should be apuropriately identified by double a.gent. 
Bureau Agents should not place identifying data on such material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in connection with its passage. 
c. Similar action should be ta.ken regarding material which is passed which 
is considered evidentiary although not clearly related to national.defense. 
d. It is not necessary to retain copies of buildup material obviously not 
evidentiary in nature where copies can be obtained at later dr:-.te from 
Government agency or private concern having custody. 
Handling money and property received by double agents 
a. Double agents must turn over to Bureau any money or prope~ty received 
from their principals in connection with double a.gent intelligence 
operation. This should be made clear to double a.gent at inceptio_n 
of operation {consider obtaining signed statement to this effect). 
Except.ions must be specifically approved by Bureau. Entirely. sep2.rate 
arrangements must be made for payments to double agents for services 
rendered to Bureau. 
b. Any money or property received by double a.gent from his principal 
represents possible evidence and double •gent should execute state­
ment describing money received by type of currency, denomination, 
series of issue, and serial number and appropriately describing any 
other property received. Statement should be signed by double a.gent's 
code namea . 
~• Money or property received from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
d. Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from double agents 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refreshing. 
recollection in event testimony is later necessary. 
u. UTILIZATION' OF INFORMANTS .um SOURCES AT INSTITUTIONS OF LEARNING 
1. Use of.students 
a. Students under age of 18 years are not to be developed as security 
infor~ants, potential security inforrr~nts, or other types of security 
sources in other than highly unusual circumstances. Under such 
circumstances, furnish complete justification to B~reau. 
b. Upon initia.L • contact with prospective· student informant or s ou:r:ce, 
individual ?hould be tactfully requested to execute a brief signed writ­
ten·statsment for field file setting forth that this individual has 
-voluntarily come forward to furnish info1.~mation to FBI because of 
his concern over individuals or groups that may be inimical to 
interests of u. S. Government and that he understands FBI has no 
interest in legitiw~te institution or campus activities. 
2. Quarterly letters 
a. On January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1, submit quarterly 
letters on each student and teacher authorized by Bureau for contact 
as security informant, potential security informant, or other 
sources (including panel sources). Include following: 
(1) Specific productivity 
(2) Specific information furnished not otherwise available from 
public source material or other office sources off campus 
(3) Frequency of contact 
b. Quarterly letters on all[extremist]and security informants or sources 
should be jointly transmitted to Bureau by cover letter captioned 
"Utilization of Informants and Sources at Institutions of Learning." 
Include following in cover lettor: 
{1) Humber cf informan·l;s, potential informa.nts, and ·other sources 
active ,md under development at oach educa·l;ional institution 
affe ci;ed 
{2) An overall annlysis of coverage e.fforc1ed by campus inform..<i.nts 
and sources 
NW 38321 1194 
24 
9-13-71 
(. 
( 
1 i 
i .l 
I l 
' . ! 
I l l 
I ! i 
: I 
' .f 
; 
I 
i 
i 
I t 
I 
I 
