87B 
B. [ 
[ 
SECTION 87. SE_CURITY Il-TVESTIGATIONS 
INVESTIGATION OF cr.JNIST PARTY, USA; SOCIALIST w&Rs PARTY; OTHE~ M.~RXIST 
REVOLUTIONARY-TYPE ~_;!\N"IZATIONS; PRONT GROUPS; [REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES] 
AND MISCELLANEOUS ORGANIZATIONS 
1. Purposes of investigation 
a. To. obtain legally admissible evidence for prosoctition under existing 
Federal statutes 
b. To obtain sufficient pertinent data to determine organization's 
character and permit implementation of EO 10450 _ 
c. To obtain int~lligence data in order to have day-to-day appraisal of 
strength, dangerousness, and activities of or&anization; and to keep· 
Department and other interested Government agencies·advised • 
Specific objectives should include: 
a. Development of confidential informants at all levels of organization 
b. Coverage of all important ramifications of o:::-ganization' s activities 
c. Development· of admissible evidence against organization's offici"als 
for violation of Federal laws 
2. Policy 
a. Genaral 
(1} By Presidential directive 9-6-39, and subsequ~nt restatements, 
FBI is charged with responsibility for coordinating all infor­
mation regarding U. s. internal security. 
(2) FBI employees should not discuss communist _or related investi­
gations with any unautho::-ized individuals. This subject is not 
to be discussed in speeches of Bureau employees without specific 
authorization. However, mimeographed material, including 
speeches, testimony, and magazine articles prepared by Director, 
may be furnished with out discuss'ion to individuals interested. 
{3) Investigations m~st be conducted in most discreet and thorough 
manner. Members of law enforcement agencies are not to accompany 
Agents during security investigations without Bureau authority. 
(4} Established sources and informants who are students or employees 
at institution of learning, but who are not reporting on any 
campus activities or any matter pertaining to. educational institu­
tion, may be contacted without Bureau authority. These contacts 
must be made away from campus. 
(5) No photographic surveillances are to be conducted in security 
cases without specific Bureau authority and then only when 
essential to protect Bureau's interest in internal security cases 
by supplementing ·informant coverage. In request for Bureau 
authority for photographic surveillance, outline manner in which 
it will be conducted and supervised. , 
b. Established subversive groups 
·(1) Keep Bureau currently advised by appropriate communication, and 
later incorporate in reports, all pertinent activities, incluiing 
any changes in principal officers, structure of qrganization, and 
forthcoming events. • 
(2) If no specific leads outstanding, case may be placed in pending­
inactive status after submission of initial report. 
(3} Submit reports semiannually unless advised otherwise in individ­
ual cases. 
c. Newly formed known or suspected subversive organizations, i;1cluding 
those affiliated with[revolutionary activities]movement. 
(1) When information is received concerning formation of group, 
iw.madiately open case and advise Bureau. 
(2) Conduct sufficient inquiry through established sources to deter­
mine character of group. 
(a) If fur.ther investigation warranted, submit re port and there­
after submit reports semiannually unless advised otherwise 
in individual cases. 
{b) If further investigation not warranted, furni_sh Bureau 
results of preliminary inquiry and. reasons for this de.tar:.. 
mination by letter. Incorporate any pertinent information 
in form suitable for dissemination. 
Page 1393 
12 
6-13-72 
.( 
( 
\ 
·l 
l 
I 
i 
- i . ! 
I I 
' 1 
' I 
' l 1 
\ I • ' I 
i 
i 
' ! 
! 
; ,, 
i i 
i 
i 
~ 
! 
l 
