87H \ •••• ION 87. 
. ·'\ 
SECURITY INV~STIGAT~-
Considerations affecting national defense in Alaska, Hawaii, ··and Puerto Rico 
require broadest possible construction of requirements for dissemination to ( 
intelligence services in those areas. See MRR, part II, section 5, pertaining • !, • 
to Bur~au' s overall responsibilities and policies in .dissemination. '·· 
a. Members of armed forces 
De~imitations Agreement between FBI and armed forces intelligence agencies 
(see section 102B~ volume IV, of this manual) requires each agency to 
exchange freely and directly with other subscribing agencies all informa-
·:·· · •• "( tion of mutual interest. Any information developed concerning ·members 
of military services must be referred immediately to appropriate military 
branch having primary responsibility, even though allegations have not 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g,. 
NW 38321 
.;"'oeen fully resolved or verified. Specifically point out in such instances 
that information has not been verified. If it is determined subject is 
member of armed services, discontinue investigation immediately, advise , 
Bureau, and disseminate pertinent reports locally to appropriate intelligence 
~,agencyo Dissemination regarding military personnel is not confined to 
subjects of security investigations but extends to any subversive data 
developed against member of armed services during FBI investigations. If 
.member of armed forces has been in contact with security subject or any 
individual or group with security implications, immediately advise appropriate 
local intelligence service, even though security aspects of contact have 
not been resolvedo Point out in such instances that information is . 
unverified and transmit any additional developments immediately. 
Determine during security investigations whether subjects.have any close 
relatives in armed forces. Promptly call _s11ch associations to a.ttention 
of appropriate military intelligence services, together with pertinent 
data, including reports, on subjects involved. Evaluation. of these 
associations lies entirely within province of military intelligence services, 
but Bureau must disseminate this information immediately upon receipt. 
Advise Bureau by letter concerning any subversive contacts or information 
developed concerning military personnel, including ~tatement as to local (:_ 
dissemination and enclosing LrLM setting out subversive data. _ 
Aliens and naturalized citizens 
Furnish information which might have bearing on their deportation or 
denaturalization to Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). If 
in doubt, disseminate. 
Employees of or persons having regular access to key. f ac_ili ti~s or employees 
of plants having contracts with military services 
See instructions in this section concerning individuals emrloyed in or 
having access to key facilitieso . 
Employees of public utilities (including state and municipal facilities) 
which are not on key facilities list or otherwise in manufacture of 
materials vital to national defense • • 
Disseminate locally to Army and other intelligence services if their 
interest is apparent. 
Individuals on inactive duty who are members of or hold commissions 
in reserve branches or National Guard • • 
Disseminate locally to appropriate military intelligence service. 
Seamen and subjects employed in maritime industry, including longshoremen 
and waterfront employees . 
Disseminate locally to Coast Guard and, when circumstances dictate, to 
other interested intelligence agencies, including NISO. • 
Employees of Federal Government within purview of Executive Order 10450 
No dissemination of reports in security of Government employees cases 
may be made in field. If, however, subject is employed in.key facility, 
Page 1946 
46 
4-13-72 ., 
( 
.. 
• 1 
! 
i I 
I ' I . ! 
i I 
! 
i l i 
! 
l l ! 
I 
I 
