13-00000 
l 
"-~fOP SECRET DINAR 
FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH - cont'd 
Why did he go into action precisely when circumstances were 
least favorable for a left-wing fanatic to assassinate the 
US President?'' Castro stated that his investigation of the 
"reports, statements, and publicity" on the Fair Play for 
Cuba Committee ·in the United States failed to indicate that 
there was any 'chapter in Dallas or New Orleans and that ''we . 
never in our life heard of him {Oswald). 0' Castro then re­
ferred to US press reports on Oswald's attempt las"t summer to 
"infiltrate" the anti-Castro Student Revolutionary Directorate 
in the US and to DRE statements that Oswald was thought at 
. that .time to be "an agent of the FBI or the CIA." "They 
(the DRE -.leaders) must know, because _they have many dealings 
with them, what FBI and CIA agents lQok like," Castro stated. 
• Castro then declared that, while Oswald may or may not 
be guilty, it is nevertheless possible that he was "an agent 
for the CIA or the FBI, as those people suspected" and could 
have been "a tool cf the: most reactionary sectors which may 
have been batching a sinister plan, whic;:h may have plotted 
the assassination of Kennedy because they disagreed with his 
• international policy." "What is behind all this? What sinister 
maneuve~ are they hatching behind all this? Who can be re­
sponsible for the assassination of President Kennedy? And who 
benefits from the assassination ... except the worst reaction­
aries?" Castro warned that it is not possible at this point 
to answer these questions, "but we do say that it is suspect, 
that.we must be cautious and vigilant and alert." Castro 
closed with the usual expressions of confidence that the 
Cubans will be ready to meet any new crisis with resolution. 
(CIA FBIS 06, 24 November, OFFICIAL USE ONLY) 
MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS: 
The Cuban defensive military alert, ordered immediately 
after the ne~s of President Kennedy's death, remains in 
effect, but no unusual.Cuban military activity has been noted. 
(NSA,various internal military intercepts, 22-24 November, 
SECRET KIMBO) • 
OTHER CUBAN REACTIONS TO THE ASSASSINATION: 
A clandestine source reports that the charg~ of the CUban 
Embassy in Santiago de Chile said that there is no doubt that 
the CIA or "other Yankees" assassinated the President and that, 
as a result, a third world war will start. He also emphasized 
the need for Cuba to prepare for a possible US invasion. (CIA 
Santiago de Chile, TDCS 3/565,826, 23 November, SECRET NO FOREIGN 
DISSEM) 
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
