13-00000 
,-.-.--
-
( 
. ,:/6 
1. CUban G:_nsuranc~exocutive, who had a large and diversified 
. net, provided intelligence in late June 1962 which specifically 
anticipated the massive Soviet military build-up which ultimately - .. __ _ 
took place in CUba. Throughout -the build-up itself. this agent .•. 
provided an almost continuous stream of OB intelligence on·m1asiie, 
maritime and air phases of the build-up. He provided the initial 
reporting on delivery of IL-28 1 s to the island. 
2. A relative of a former CUban president whose government 
connections provided him on several occasions with information on 
attitudes of·various military factions toward Castro and the 
Soviets.· Agen~ also provided some detailed missile OB. 
3. qi. s. fitize~ w~o established contact with a resistance 
chief(in Pinar del Rio)during July 1962, provided, in the course . 
of sev~ral reportsJOan inventory of Soviet installations throughout 
the province. The maintenance of communication with this agent was 
extremely arduous in virtue of his most exposed position. • 
• ~ • . 
• 4. A Havana/surgeo~who took special horseback trips to cover 
tho Soviet instal'iation at Torrens Reformatory. 
5. A former lawyer, resident of Santiago provided information 
on CUban armyllllhlhae l~ying along roads in Santiago area, as well a& 
on Soviet troops and materiel movements. 
t 6. A western diplomat who provided photographs of Soviet­
occupied hotels in Havana, Soviet troop and materiel movements in 
the Havana area. 
. ·.· ... 
7. • A CUbana official who provided comprehensive data on state 
readiness of CUbana air materiel. 
. s. A merchant in Camaguey who had provided general obseZ"va­
tional reporting on military activities in his area. 
9. A former wife of a CUba Airlines pilot who has contacts 
among CUban Airline pilots from whom she obtained some ai:r OB. 
10. A shipping clerk at Cardenas harbor reported sporadically 
on activities at the port. 
11. A construction company employee at Guantanamo Naval Base 
reported on Cuban OB in the environs of the base. 
12. A public accountant in Havana who is the leader of a 
counter-revolutionary group, reported military information acqui-red 
through his group contacts. 
13. A Havana bartender who reported considernble quantities 
of OB data obtained from his large circle of varied acquaintances 
in Havana area. • 
I 4I .-1 
. ·-.• 
14. A retired railroad of ~icial reported· data _on r_a~!I shipments~ 
:_,! If ;-··1 
