, ' r, • l 
MARCH 12, 1967 
TELEVISION INTERVIEW 
OF ATTORNEY GENERAL 
Attorney General Ramsey Clark was the guest of CBS program 
"Face the Nation" which was telecast in Washington over WTOP-TV, at 
12:30 p. m., Eastern Standard Time, Sunday, March_ 12, 1967. This program 
was moderated by CBS newscaster Martin Agronsky assisted by correspondents 
George Herman of CBS and James Clayton of the ''Washington Post. " 
... 
The principal topics disc~ssed during this interview of the 
Attorney General were: 1. The New Or leans investigation into the 
assassination of former President Kennedy; 2. Wiretapping; 3. The 
Supreme Court "Miranda" decision; 4. Congressman Adam Clayton Powell; 
and 5. The death penalty. 
Several references were made to the Director and the FBI 
during this interview and all were favorable. 
NEW ORLEANS INVESTIGATION 
The Attorney General expressed his confidence in the 
Warren Commission conclusion, based on FBI investigation, that a_ssassin 
Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone in killing former President Kennedy. He 
com1nented that most--if not all--of the individuals mentioned in the New 
Orleans investigation were known to .the FBI, which developed no evidence 
that they were involved in the assassination. Clark declined to comment 
on the mysterious individual known as "Bertrand" since New Orleans 
authorities were then holding court proceedings to determine his identity. 
WIRETAPPING 
Clark commented that there were 38 wiretaps presently 
authorized by his department, and that all of these were in national 
security-type cases. He emphasized that procedttres for his authority 
in the use of all such devices have been improved, and he was satisfied 
that none would ~ be used without his approval. 
-
"MIRANDA" DECISION 
The Attorney. General remarked that it \Vas still too early 
to determine what effect this decision would have on law enforcement 
performance. He noted, ho,vever, that it has had no appreciable effect 
on FBI investigations which have for many years informed suspects of 
their constitutional rights prior to interrogation. 
...... . 
~ •• . . 
,.., _l 
.. 
i I .• •• , 
i,·-.. ,· 
I .. 
