13-00000 
0 
.---.- ... 
r 
_ ..... 
SECRET. 
DOI 50-10 
DDO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 • 
. ( c) Officials or employees of the International Association for Cultural 
Freedom; • 
( d) Officials, employees, or grantees of the Ford, Rockefeller and 
• Carnegie Foundations; 
( e) Employees of U.S. private. detective investigative agencies. 
(2). Operational Use Requires Spec!'ll Extra-Agency Concu"ence (see 
paragraph 6): A~ Al/JJtOV/tC:. OF s1t/l1PDO., 
(a) Employees of other U.S. Government agencies; 
( b) DDO agents or assets in the United States; " • 
( c) Agents and human sources of foreign intelligence registered by _ 
other U.S. agencies; 
( d) Citizens ( or persons documented as citizens) of Australia, Canada, 
the United Kingdom ( including its overseas dependent territories) 
and New Zealand; 
(e) Citizens of Norway, West Germany and The Netherlands; 
( f) Merchant seamen on ships of certain countries. 
(3) Operational Use Requires Special Approval by the DDO (see para-
graph 7): • • 
(a) Publishers, producers, journalists or employees of public infor-
mation media; 
(b) CARE employees; 
( c) Individuals engaged in public relations activities; 
( d) Official§, representatives, or employees of ,Communist countries. 
in the United States; 
( e) Foreign delegates . or employees of the United Nations assigned 
in the U.S. and U.S. citizen delegates or employees wherever 
assigned; 
( f) Staff members or officials of Red Cross societies; 
(g) Officials of the Vatican State; 
( h) U.S. Government-fonded professors, lecturers; students or grantees; 
(i) Members of educational or-:private voluntary organizations; •• 
(j) Officiais or employees of the African-American Institute; 
. ( k) Volunteers to America. 
( 4) Operational Use Requires Approval by Crnef of Area Division ( see 
paragraph 8): • 
(a) Citizens or alien residents of the U.S. in denied areas; 
(b) Non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees of Uiiited Nations or­
ganizations not assigned in the U.S.; _ 
( c) Members of the acadenµc community. 
b. Operational use of an individual who comes under more than one type of • 
. restriction will be controlled by the highest type of restriction applicable 
in his particular case. • 
.3 
SECRET 
