Airtel to SAC, Albany 
RE: DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING UNITED STATES 
'POLICY IN VIETNAM, WASHINGTON 1 D. C., · 
.JANUARY 8, 1968 • 
The Secretary of the Brigade has been identified 
as Vivian ·Hallinan, the wife of Vincent Hallinan who in 1966 
-was identified as the Tr.easurer for the American Inst·i tute 
of Marxist. Studies, a communist front organization. 
I , 
~ ' ¥"" -, .. • ~~ • 
• ,,:. 
1
.:• One -source has described the Brigade as a. uone-shotu 
organization formed by women in various cities to hold demon­
strations 0 all over 0 tbe U.S. on 1/8/68. 
·~ ~ • ~ • In its call for the above demons·tration, Brigade 
literature urges participants to enter the U .s .· Cong-.cess to 
present demands for an end to the war. 
All offices inunediately alert sources concerning 
this demonstration. All information developed is to be 
immediately reported to the Bureau and Washington Field by 
teletype followed by memorandum, original and ten copies, 
under ·t·he above caption for dissemination to all interested 
agencies. Teletypes must contain sufficient identifying 
data to enable the Bureau to characterize organizations and 
individuals supporting the demonstration without resorting 
'to file :reviews. Such statements as •11a Security Index 
subject.,, or 0 subject of a Bureau investigation" should not 
be used. The Bureau is not to be referred to its files for· 
identifying information. 
It is essential that all ind1viduals vtitb subversive 
backgrounds and subversive organizations participating in 
this demonstration be identified. • 
. Informant coverage of groups that plan to support 
the Brigade and to participate in the demonstration is to 
be arranged. It is imperarive, that the Bureau be able to 
pinpoint subversive organizations and individuals partici­
pating in the demonstration. 
Each office is to make particular effort to 
develop information regarding the financial backing of 
individuals and groups that may participate in the demon­
stration. 
- 2 -
NW 88321 Doclrl:32989544 Page 54 
r I 
I' 
r 
I; 
l • 
