13-00000 
ScCREr NO FOREIGN DISSEM 
3. What emerged from these and other Cuban 
pronouncements was the apparent conviction of 
Castro and his aides that further Communist revolu­
tions in Latin America are inevitable, that Cuba 
can speed up the process, and that in Cuba's own 
interest it is urgent that revolutionary action be 
initiated wherever possible and as soon as pos­
sible. It is logical to assume that despite recent 
official soft-pedaling of the issue, the basic 
Cuban viewpoint remains the same. Cuban leaders 
continue to believe that the very presence of their 
regime will inspire other Latin American revolu­
tionaries to action, and undoubtedly will continue 
to give assistance to these efforts. 
4. Cuba's policy of revolution in the hemi­
~ph~re has suffered severe defeats, however, since 
the 3-ton Cuban arms cache was discovered on a 
Venezuelan beach on 1 _November 1963. For example, 
OAS action stemming from that discovery is pending; 
despite the -Cuban-supported terrorist campaign, 
constitutional government in Venezuela was success­
fully transferred following President Leoni's dra­
matic election victory last December; and the out­
breaks of violence in Panama last January failed to 
upset constitutional processes there. The April re­
volt in which.President" Goulart of Brazil was over­
thrown was also a severe defeat for Havana. These 
reverses may have produced a feeling in Havana that 
a breathing spell is necessari. In addition, Castro 
may have been cautioned to moderate his revolutionar 
...!.£_£~!......E!.!!._~ V1S1 e --• , anuarz. Th S 
year has been designated "the year of the economy." 
This and Cuba's all-out campaign to obtain needed 
commercial and industrial goods from West 
also may be factors prompting Havana to lessen its 
public expressions of support for revolution. More­
over, Castro may believe that a soft-pedaled policy 
on revolution now may pay dividends after the US 
elections in November. He probably assumes that 
conditions for a US-Cuban modus vivendi--on his 
terms--will be more favorable then. 
5. Nevertherless, evidence presented in the 
accompanying country-by-country index shows that 
Cuba has continued since the first of the year to 
promote, finance, and otherwise support pro-Castro 
groups and individuals in Argentina, Brazil, (be­
fore the April revolt), Chile, Panama, British 
2 
NO FOREIGN DISSEM 
·SECRE+ 
