13-00000 
• F. Irving-Dymond, attorney for the defendant, in 
the.February 1969 trial of Clay Shaw in New 
Orleans; Clay Shaw was charged by the grand jury 
with "having conspired with David W. Ferrie and 
Lee Harvey Oswald to murder President John F. 
Kennedy" - in regard to which the trial jury 
found Clay Shaw "not guilty". 
May 1973 
6 Burying Facts and Rewriting History 
by Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor, Computers and 
Automation 
Taken together, the information published May 
1970 to May 1973 in Computers and Automation 
effectively destroys a large segment of the beliefs, 
~~ the rewritten history, that the establishment in 
the United States has arranged for the people in 
the United States to believe. 
June, July 1973 
36 The American News Media and the Assassination of 
President John F. Kennedy: Accessories After the 
Fact (in two parts) 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. 
An examination of what happened in many im• 
portant American news organizations, to cover up 
and hide the facts about how President John F. 
Kennedy was actually assassinated in Dallas. 
September 1973 
6 Establishments and Truth 
by Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor, Computers and 
Automation 
The nature of an establishment as a system 
38 A Parallel of 1963 
by Marguerite C. Oswald, Ft. Worth, Texas 
The ignoring of evidence of conspiracy regarding 
Lee Harvey Oswald - a parallel to the Watergate 
cover-up. 
October 1973 
21 The Framing of Lee Harvey Oswald 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. 
When Lee Harvey Oswald was arrested, Nov. 22, 
1963, for the assassination of President John F. 
Kennedy, he said to his captors in the Dallas jail 
cell, "I'm a patsy". A review of the evidence 
(including 18 photographs) proves that Oswald 
was a patsy, and that he was "framed" for the 
murder of President Kennedy - although "estab­
lishmentese" American history denies it. 
Hartlein - Continued from page 19 
human failing. Even the most broad-minded practi­
tioner is bound by his or her capacities and philos­
ophy, and it requires a deliberate and concerted ef­
fort to remain open-minded, and to appreciate varied 
approaches that are not in accord with one's own 
temporary aesthetic parameters. One discerns com­
puter artists who prefer natural or man-made pat­
terns and sounds, vs. those who desire only mathe­
matics, electronic and computer sounds, sans the 
human touch. There are those who exploit two or 
three-dimensional static images, vs. the creators 
who prefer moving permutations in flux, declaiming 
that the computer is a perceptual medium, and there­
fore should not be imprisoned in static"form, i.e., 
cybernetic art is "pure idea," ad infinitum. Ironi­
cally, even the newest of the arts appears destined 
to hardening within specific schools of thought, 
with separatist camps warring in "vs." expression 
and debate. 
Summary 
It is obvious that the concept of manipulation 
and processing via the computer is merely the first 
stage of cybernetic creation. Even now, far beyond 
the statements of the artistic .problem and aesthetic, 
personal variation, is a vast, open territory that 
is being explored by questioning, hardy intellec­
tual pioneers, as they seek to pe~ceive the_~ 
anatomy of art and philosophy: 
What is style? 
What constitutes the aesthetic? How may this 
be accomplished? 
What is art? Music? Sculpture? Dance? 
Poetry? 
What is science? Mathematics? 
Is art purely the man-made: The sound of 
• the human voice, or playing music upon 
man-made instruments? The painting and 
sculpting of man with hand-held tools? 
Is art a part of life, embracing: The ordin­
ary, the animal and natural sounds? The 
patterns carved by the winds, sands, and 
the water? 
Is art perceptual, a mere fleeting moment or 
experience in time, or is it permanent, en­
during? 
Wh·at is the optimum role of man in a cyber­
netic society? 
What is the role of .art in a technology-ori-
ented world? 
What is the symbiosis of man-and-the-machine? 
What is thinking? 
What is creativity? 
Is man the measure of all things? 
When man uses the computer as an aid in creation, 
or when he attempts to create heuristic art, his 
mind finds new questions to explore and to answer. 
It appears highly possible that a renewed perception 
of life and the arts awaits present and future gen­
erations of man, and that thi~may be partially ac­
complished by eliminating the boundaries of compart­
mentalized disciplines, and by walking freely be­
tween art and science, by combining interdisciplin­
ary practices and materials, to hopefully bring 
forth the ideal of an open, growing, and dimensional 
perception of art/life for the human rate. D 
Editor's Note: This paper is published in accord­
ance with a new editorial policy of allowing writers 
freer expression, with no editing by the editors, in 
the hope that greater variety of expression and 
ideas will result for the benefit of readers. 
