STFANWEED/STDOLLAR 
(continued) 
STYMYSTIC 
MIHELEN 
MIPACT/MICOUNCIL 
MHTHROW 
MHMATTE 
TAB 0 
Page 3 
or implied at the time of sale for the Agency1 s 
purchase of goods or services, and, to date, 
no such use has been made of the entity. 
This small proprietary, which provided cover for 
one-Agency employee in the Far East, was liqui­
dated in 1974. A covert relationship has con­
tinued with the owner of the parent company of 
which the Agency proprietary was a subsidiary. 
The owner provides cover in the parent company 
for another Agency employee, and the parent 
company moved into the premises vacated by the 
subsidiary and was allowed to take over fixtures 
and a rental deposit at no cost. 
This proprietary, which provided cover for one 
Agency case officer in the Far East, was sold 
in 1974 to two local-hire employees of the firm . 
All Agency connections with the firm were severed 
at the time of sale. 
This proprietary, which provided cover for one 
Agency employee, was sold in 1970 to the un­
witting members of its Board of Directors. 
At the time of sale all Agency connections 
with the entity were severed. 
This proprfotary (part of the insurance complex)" 
was formed for the purpose of purchasing an 
apartment overseas which was used for operational 
purposes. When the apartment was no longer of 
operational use in 1970, the company (and the 
apartment) was sold to a non-Agency connected 
party. No agreement for the continued use of 
the corporation or the apartment was made with 
the purchaser, and, to date. no such use has 
been.made of the entity or the apartment. 
This proprietary (part of the insurance complex) 
was established to purchase an apartment overseas 
of operational interest to the Agency. When the 
apartment was no longer needed for operational 
purposes in 1970, the corporation (and the 
apartment) was sold to a·non-Agency connected 
party. No agreement for the continued use of 
the apartment or the entity was made with the 
purchaser, and~ to date, no such use has been made 
of the apartmen~ or the entity. 
-
Ii.-,,. ;, 
...... 
~t)r 
~ 
f/ 
