13-00000 
id hard stress on the PSE. Unfortu-
he mad-:. rao other definite statement 
the n.ature cf the wound. 
int.?rvlew \\"ith Captain Humes was 
r.formative. Just before the interview, 
7, H;Jmes !"'ad re-examined the autop­
o:ogr3phs 2.-,.j X-rays, and he dis­
j :ham .?! :~~g!h on the cas ta::,es. 
.. ;:·2~s j•;..- . ., d~ri:ig t~ ~ .s..:!opsy, 
:I. nad nc, teen intended to precisely 
ent tho:? io::ati,:m of the wo•Jnds. How­
,e now ;:.-c:::.;ced a sketch which, he 
:lid reprc:ls::i: tl'lesa lccaiions accu• 
The ir.te;--.::;·.ver asked. "Your re­
Jation of t:-:e photographs verity that 
1unds v,:·: ~s shown he~e?"' 
;, sir," l"e r!plied. No stress. 
3 there a~y. ·1,our~_ds other than one 
base o! :-: nee!< and one up in the 
"No, sir. triere were not." Moderate 
not er.cligh to suggest deception. 
there a:,·, doubt that the wound at 
ck of the· President's head was an 
ound? "Tt:ere is absolutely no doubt. 
Jain stress but again moderate. 
gether, new many wounds were 
"There ·.r,e•e tv.,o wounds of entrance 
o of exit.·· At this point the stress be-
1ard. 
where were the entry wounds lo­
' "Posteriorly, one low In lhe right 
or.scalp. and one in the base of the 
n the right." Hard stress again. 
d he be absolutely certain tnat what 
:t was an entry wound was. in fact, 
'es, indeea we can." Hard stress. 
ntervie~ with Humes was one of the 
;t and most detailed on the CBS 
and I charted most of it with the PSE. 
clear to me that he believed much 
he was saying, but the frequent flick­
:,f moderate stress and the occasion­
es of hard stress. suggested that he 
nearly as confident of his testimony 
claimed to be. As Or. Perry had 
I out. sometimes it's not easy to tell 
'/ wound from an exit wound. 
,terviewer asked him one good "bot­
:!" question: 
you have any different conclusion, 
ferent ideas, any different thoughts 
:er seeing [the autopsy photographs) 
:han you had at that time?" 
• replied Captain Humes. "we think 
!ar up very well, and very closely, 
imony before the Warren Commis-
.Iress was hard. 
Specter. one of the Warren Commis• 
rincipal investigators. also spoke on 
; tapes. He said that the case against 
fitted tog 9th er ·very well, and that 
could one find .among actual crim-
NTi-lOuse 
• ·- -----.• •··-• -•-•- ••-- ••- •--••--1o•v11 •v• u,a1 UGW'V '-""'-''CSU UIC:, ""Uillflll::i.~1011 Yt,ry 
the charge that the Commission had been severely, but I have never four.,d...thal ftiey 
formed to whitewash the facts. have discovered ar:y evidenctfQfany k,ind 
The PSE said he was telling the truth. that we didn't discover and use In determin-
John McCloy. a member of the Warren ing the case as we did." . _ . •• 
Commission, said much the same thing, Hard stress once again. ThewordNnevef" 
and added that he had seen no credible was a perfectly "trimmed hedge." . 
evidence to cantrddict tht:1 fi11ui11gs of the "I have found nothing since that time." 
Commiss\on. The PSE backed him up on· he continued. "to change my view, nor have 
this. t::t:t it failed to do so when, speaking I heard of anything that has changed the 
of the Warren Report, he said, "There was view of any member of the commission 
nothing fraudulent about it." Here the PSE since that time." 
shawed hard stress. • The stress was hard. As I had now come • 
If Specter end McCloy were as confident to expect, the word "nothing" seemed a 
at the PSE shoY.s them to be in the truthful- particula•ly beautiful example of stress. 
r.ess of the Warren R~;-ort.-what could b3 Ar,other word seemed to show even more 
f::i..:-tu:~,,~ :!t:~·,ut i:".' Perhaps the snippinJ stress: '"member." Could he have been· 
off of a few loose ends, the suppression thinking of someone in particular? On Janu­
of a few pieces of inconvenient evidence ary 19, 1970, Senator Richard 8. Russell, 
which conflicted with a version of events a member of the Warren Commission, re-
they believed to be essentially true. vealed thafhe had never believed that Lee . 
The one man who could be expected to Haivey Oswald acted alone: 
have the most informed opinion regarding I had charted the last of the assassination • 
the work of the Warren Commission is tapes. Of course, these few thousand feet 
former Chief Justice Earl Warren himself. of recording tape are only a small fraction· 
He had declined to be inteiviewed on the of the relevant testimony recorded and 
CBS program in 1967, but he did appear stored away in the archives of television 
on television in May, 1972, in an inteiview news departments. There is, for example, 
' 
" ... we found no evidence 
of any kind that there was 
c1ny conspiracy." 
There was very hard stress 
on "no evidence" 
' 
Lee Haivey Oswald, as he was led through 
the Dallas police station, denying that ha 
had killed the President. There are state­
ments by Marina Oswald, Jack Ruby and 
by others. 
I have no doubt that with these . tapes. 
a Psychological Stress Evaluator, and time 
to work on them, a very detailed picture 
of the assassination of John F. Kennedy 
could be reconstructed, a picture that might 
even reveal the identities of the assassins 
and their co-conspirators. I hope that sooner 
----------------. or later someone does this. I have gone as 
which was part of a series called The Bran- far_ as the P!ivate resources of a free-lance 
deis Television Recollections. Bob Smith of wr,ter permit. 
the Committee provided me with the tape. What, given the ~ample of testimony I 
The inteiview was an hour long, but the have processed_ wit!' the PSE, can I say 
Kennedy assassination and the warren about the ass~ssinatro~? • . . 
Commission came up only once. The inter- Vofe should first examine '!'e test!mony In 
viewer, Abram Sachar, Chancellor of Bran- whrc~no stress was found, since lt ,s almost 
dais University, was friendly and deferen- certain that these people were telling the 
tial. I charted some of Warren's remarks truth as they saw it. This strongly suggests 
unrelated to the assassination and found the following: 
that he was generally unstressed. Sachar 1. Oswald owned a rifle. 
raised the subject of the Commission 2. A bullet fired from that rifle was found 
obliquely, and Warren volunteered several on Govemor Connally's stretcher at Park-
rather lengthy statements about it land Hospital. 
Warren said that immediately after the as- 3. Bullet fragments alleged to have been 
sassination there were two theories, one that found in the presidential limousine also 
Khrushchev and Castro were behind the came from Oswald's rifle. • 
killing, the other that a group ot right-wing 4. At least one eyewitness believes he 
Texasoilmenwereresponsible.Hesaid: saw gunsmoke on the grassy knoll. but 
"We explored both of those theories for another is equally certain no shots came 
ten months and found no evidence that from that direction. 
either of them was involved in it." 5. Oswald shot and killed OfficerTippitt. 
The PSE showed hard stress. 6. At least one member of the Warren 
He continued: Commission and one member of the Com-
" ... we found no evidence of any kind mission's staff really believe in the validity 
that there was any conspiracy." of the Warren Report. •• 
Again there was stress, and particularly. 7: Jim Garrison had little or no case 
hard stress on the words "no evidence.". against Clay Shaw. 
. "I have read everything," said Justice Almost all of this tends to support, in ont • 
Warren, "that has come to my notice in the way or another, the Warren Report. Butnow · 
' • i 
- - . -·, ... ... -... . . •• • ."" - ... :· 
·_:·· .. 
• 
.. 
