13-00000 
* We need to establish early on what information is 
already in the public domain and address the issue of 
"official release" in the context of each project. 
* Develop a strategy/policy with the IROs concerning the 
release of information. Be smart about it; do not accept 
stonewalling by them on relevant information that can be 
released. At the same time, avoid confrontations with them 
on marginal or non-relevant information. 
* On-site Directorate reviewers are the most effective 
way to handle the internal coordination requirements of a 
large project. Without the DO's JFK team on site it would 
have been impossible to complete the JFK project. 
* Develop guidelines and processes for coordinating Third 
Agency documents; include other agencies in discussions; do 
not drop documents into the black hole of other agencies' 
FOIA offices without this advance discussion. 
* Maintain written, up-to-date, project-specific 
declassification guidelines. This -is no small task. A 
"declassification guide" must be flexible; no guide can 
anticipate all the issues which will arise in a review. 
After six years, we were still revising the JFK guidelines 
in the last month of the project. 
* In establishing deadlines, allow sufficient time to do 
a thorough, professional job as required by the project 
activities (see Unrealistic Deadlines above}. 
* Ensure we have adequate support people for routine 
processing tasks; declassification involves both tough 
substantive analysis--and a lot of routine proqessing. 
* If possible, inventory/index all materials before the 
review and processing begins. Experienced indexers are a 
must. Identification of duplicate documents should be a key 
part of any inventory or index. 
IV ARRB Requests for Additional Information and Records 
(see attached draft} 
Attachment I. Description of the JFK Collection 
Attachment II. [being drafted-will be available 17 Dec a.m.] 
[statistical summary of collection including size and status 
of documents (RIFs, SANs, DIFs, NBR, etc.}] 
