SECRET 
Latin American governments are also able to maintain 
fairly accurate lists of their. nationals known to 
have been in Cuba. We get a certain amount of cross­
checking from lists of names furnished us by several 
of our agents who have undergone training, and in 
confessions of captured guerrillas who had been in 
Cuba. Thus in the case of Peru, for instance, we 
come up with a list of 235 names of individuals known 
to have made extended stays in Cuba in 1961 and 1962. 
We have to make allowance for some who did not re­
ceive guerrilla training, and. allowance in the op­
posite direction for those whose names have escaped 
our surveillance. But we are guided in these adjust­
ments by the cross-checking information mentioned 
above. 
Some of the trainees arrive, and many go home, 
by way of the Iron Curtain and Western Europe, using 
Soviet, Czech, or Cuban aircraft--and probably ships 
as well--for the trip between Cuba and the Bloc. This 
is another attempt to conceal their movements, and in 
some cases permits further indoctrination and train­
ing in Bloc countries. 
Under the circumstances we consider that our 
estimate of 1,000 to 1,500 guerrilla warfare trainees 
in 1962 is reasonably accurate. We also believe that 
the scope and volume of this training is being stepped 
up, just as we know that it incresed in 1962 over 1961. 
The basic training covers cross-country movement: 
of guerrillas, firing, care of weapons, and general 
guerrilla tactics. One of our Brazilian agents took 
such a four-week course more than a year ago, under 
cover of going to Cuba for a convention. He returned 
to his Havana hotel every few days during the course 
to spread the word that he had been sightseeing. An 
Argentine trainee who took a longer course and then 
was sent home by way of Europe has given us a great 
deal of detail on the type of training. He reports 
that some of the trainees remain indefinitely. The 
Cubans sometimes refer to these men as their Interna­
tional Brigade. Sometimes they are formed into na­
tional units from a particular country, in effect 
forming a packag~d cadre which can be returned to 
the homeland to.: lead a "Liberation· Army. n 
-6-
SECRET 
NW .~095.~ Docld.: 32424 709 Page 12 
