D. 
[ 
(. [ 
. ( 
SEC ON 87. SECURITY WYESTIGATIOH 87D 
SECURITY INVF.:STIGATIO;a, INDIVIDUALS 
• 1. Definition:; 
The term "ba~ic revolutionary organization" or "basic revclutiona~y-group" 
when used hereinafter in this subsection shall apply to any o~c or all 
of tho following organizations or groups in order to distinguish the 
organizations from front organizations: 
a. Communist Party, USA 
b. Socialist Workers Party 
c. [Progressive Labor Movement] 
a. Proletarian Party of America 
e. Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico 
f. Johnson-Forest Group 
g. American So"cialist Clubs 
h.· See also 87C ld. 
2. Responsibility of the Bureau 
a. • To co,.:1uct tho:rough investigation into the background and· subversive 
·:a-oti•ri·t:i.e·s of all persons in the U. S. and Puerto Rico who are 
1J~ngerous or potentially dangerous tc the internal security. Each 
'SAC will be held responsible for the proper invcl':t:i.gation of all 
persons in his area who, because of membership or affiliation 
with basic revolutionary organizations or other Marxist revolutionary 
organizations including splinter groups, may be potentially 
dangerous. 
b. • To determine the identities, vtherea.bouts~ and activities of individuals 
constituting a threat to the internal security and develop sufficient 
information and evidence through imres·tigation to sustain appropria·te 
action by the Bureau should it become necessary for the Federal 
Government to institute prbsecuti,e action against such individuals 
in courts·of law or control their movecent and activities in the 
event of a national emergency 
3. Purpo~e of investigation. • 
·The primary purpose of these investigations is t"i·1ofold, namely: 
a. Determination of dangerousness 
T-o determine the identities, whereabouts, and activities ·of all 
individuals "in the U. S. and Puerto ?..ico who, because of t·heir 
membership in, activiti in, or association with one or more of 
the· 1~evolutionary groups defined abo-re or related groups, are 
dangerous or potentially dangerous to the internal secur~ty of 
. _the country, and the consequent collection of sufficient information 
concerning their subversive activities to justify_apprehens1on:in 
event of a national emergency _..-· - · ._.,;: 
b. Determination of violations of Federal ;;statutes . • ··,, 
To determine the identities, whereabouts; and activities of,"all 
individuals _who have been or may be yiolating laws of the U. s·. 
(1} Direct investigation towards obtaining admissible evidence 
to establish the violation. 
(2) Be alert for any information indicating a violation of the 
Federal ·statutes relating to espionage, sabotage, and sedition. 
(3) Title 18, USC, § 2385, paragraph (1), prohibits the advocacy, 
etc., of forceful or violent overthrow of the Government. 
Paragraph (2) -pro·hibits the printing and distribution of 
iropaganda advocating the force.ful over:tnrow of th£:!• Gov:ernme'.nt. 
lAffiliation ~ith an organization is not a prerequisite to 
prpsecution-under paragraphs (1) and (2).) Paragraph (3) • 
.... makes it. unla\1ful to organize or l::elp to orgal).ize any society, 
eto., of persons who advocate overthrow -of the Government by 
force or violence, or to be or bec·ome a. member of or become 
affiliated with any such society knowing the purposes thereof. 
Conspiracy to violate this section is covered by Title 18, USC, 
§ 371 {general conspiracy statute). . 
(4) Title 18, USC, § 2387, penali::es attempts to undermine t.:~ 
loyalty, discipline, or morale of the armed forces. AL .red 
violations should be reported i::-~-:i.ed.iately to the Bureau . 
19 
10-14-64 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 '645 
