[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
87D s~ • a1. 
''"""""-. 
SECURITY INVESTIGATIC ..• 
(e) General _(-_ I. Tabbing of cards 
The alphabetical security index cards on those individuals 
• "designated as "Pro-Cuban" should be tabbed with a metal 
tab. 
:,II. Removal from priority I and priority II· 
Careful analysis must be made of each case in which 
deletion from priority I and priority II is proposed. 
For instanc'e, when a subject is being removed· from 
priority I or priority II tabbing, file review may well 
disclose that subject qualifies for priority t~bbing. 
for reasons covered in 87D 7b (11)· (b}. 
c. Individuals employed in or having -access to key facilities • 
(1) Responsibility 
FBI is responsible by Presidential directive for keeping other 
Federal agencies advised of developments within their juris­
diction affecting plants having armed forces contracts, -as ·well 
as other facilities, utilities, and critical points of trans­
portation and com.munications systems which have been designate~ 
as vital to the national defense and welfare by the Department 
of Defense. 
FBI is responsible under Delimitations Agreement for investi­
gating ·employees of private contractors who have contracts with 
agencies of Department of Defense where credible subversive 
information concerning employee is obtained. Thorough investi­
gation must be conducted and consideration for inclusion in 
security index given concerning any individual employed in or 
having access to a key facility who is alleged _to -have been, 
at any time in the past, a member of any basic revolutionary 
organization or against whom sufficient other subversive 
information is.in our possession which warrants such action. ( 
'(a) Requests for investigation from another agency 
,~ When another agency requests investigation of individual 
~mployed in key facility, institute investigation immediately 
if basis of request so warrants. Advise Bureau of request, 
basis thereof, and that investigation is being conducted. 
·(b) Verification of key facility status of place of employment 
Department of Defense Key Facilities List (maintained· in 
each office) must be checked for verification of information 
that a security investigation subject's place of amployment 
may be included in such list. 
. (c) Individuals denied access to restricted information 
__ Intelligence agencies of armed forces frequently advise 
that an individual has been denied clearance to work.in 
a defense plant or to handle classified or restricted 
•• information. In some instances clearance is denied based 
on information furnished by Bureau. At other times, in­
formation in Bureau files is ~ery meager or possibly 
negative and basis for such denial of clearance is not 
known. The intelligence agency.is responsible for furnish­
ing Bureau with any inf.ormation involving disloyalty or 
subversiveness. 
Office receiving notification that an individual has been 
denied clearance must ascertain promptly basis for such 
denial and obtain all pertinent data contained in file of 
2065 
, 64 
4-11-69 
( 
f 
t r r 
~ 
ii t 
! 
f £ 
f 
l 
¥ 
t t F E 
I t r. 
I t 
I 
~ t 
ll 
I -I 
I I 
