Secret 
· 178-10004-10416 
Appendix J 
THE MIAMI STATION 
In March 1960, President Eisenhower approved the project later to become 
known as the Bay of Pigs. In April 1960 a Western Hemisphere Division Forward 
Operations Base (FOB) was established in South Miami, Florida, for the purpose 
of coordinating aJJ support, training, and preparatory activities for operations against 
Cuba. The FOB simultaneously supported our busy Havana Station which was 
operating under difficult circumstances, including inhibiting surveillance of our 
officers by Castro security services. After the Station was closed in Havana when 
US diplomatic relations were broken with Castro's government in January 1961, 
it was envisioned that selected personnel assigned to the Miami Base would, upon 
the overthrow of the Castro government, become a nucleus to reopen the Havana 
Station. During the Bay of Pigs landing, the FOB provided support for the 
operation. 
In September 1961, the Miami Station was established at a new location, 
replacing the FOB. About 300 persons were assigned to the Station at one time; 
Headquarters responsibility was in an autonomous group until 1965, when the 
Western Hemisphere Division resumed charge. 
Utilizing former Cuban assets in Havana who had fled to the United States, 
indigen_ous Cuban organizations were formed to continue the overt struggle against 
the Castro government. In addition, a Cuban Intelligence Organization in exile was 
formed to collect information on the activities of militant autonomous Cuban exile 
groups in the United States who were not affiliated with the US Government effort 
against the Cu ban regime. The Cu ban intelligence organization in exile participated 
in a number of activities including the issuance of anti-Castro publications, 
maintaining relations with anti-Castro governments and groups in the Caribbean 
and Latin American countries, and debriefing Cuban exiles arriving in the United 
States for positive foreign intelligence and counterintelligence to identify Cuban 
agents being infiltrated into the United States via the Cuban Freedom Flights and 
small boats. Allied with thls effort was an electronic intercept capability directed . ' ~ 
at Cuban government comnfonications whlch was manned by indigenous Cuban 
exiles. Close working relations were maintained with US Government agencies in 
the Miami area such as the FBI, INS, Coast Guard, Customs, Navy, Air Force, 
etc., to coordinate activities. A small support base was established in Key West. 
Secret 
Hlf 50955 DocI<l.:32105602 Page 2 
Pho!ocopy 
from 
Gerald R. FOid Ubrary 
