.. 
, .. . - '~ ~ ;_ )·~· 
. ... 
. . ··_; 
._, . .. ... 
. ' '·,:(:;\/<, 
•,' 
: . ' 
Memorandum to Mr. Sµllivan ... · . 
Re: INTELLIGE11CE COVERAGE op· FOREIGN 
COUNTRIES •. 
65-63113 
. . . . . . . ·. 
l \ that data of value might be •• ;oh~ained which would' o.utweigh the risks 
lis essentially a short term view. Source development is definitely 
a long ·tenn proposition and the most advantageous time. to initiate 
such an effort is before the country becomes a real trouble spot. 
In fact good sources in ostensibly 11friendly" country~establishments· 
.. could possibly produce data pointing to impending. troµble. We felt . 
. l the situation in Latin America warranted the long te17n view. . . 
l 
Getting down to. "brass tacks II all the requested clearance would . 
l1ave meant is that State would have agreed to our conducting discreet 
inquiries regarding potential sources. E~isting procedures provide 
(and we did not propose a change) that we not make a personal 
I 
approach to a potential source· witho·. ut specific cl. earance from State. ,~,. This gives State a firm opportunity to take the -"cautious view" it desires to take. . . . • . . :· . • - ·. •. 
' : • ' :· 
The development of.sources in diplomatic establislunents 
is admittedly a delicate operation but can produce data of definite 
value. This is illustrated by seyeral examples dµring tl1e past year. 
Sources of this type have provided the first authentic confirmation 
of the assassination of the Dominican dictator, Generalissimo 
Trujillo; identified the PancL71anian Ambassador to the Organization 
of Araerican States as on the payroll of the Dominicans; provided data 
as to what the-President of Pakistan would·probably discuss with 
President Kennedy; furnished a code book utilized .. by Cuban diplomatic 
establish11ents in Cuba; and have provided voluminous valuable 
intelligence data in connection with our inquiries into Do1:1inican 
lobbying activities· in the U.S. 
ORSERYATION$: 
It is felt we have made our views known in detail and on i 
the record and it is not believed we should pursue the difference in t views with State. This latter viewis prompted by the fact that if • !, 
we take strong ·issue and sway State to our point of view we will simplyf 
have State looking ·over our shoulder without any real backing on a 
sensitive operation .. Ball's letter does not require a reply. 
~ 
• lVe · advised the. Attorney General by letter of 10~ 13-61 of 
the-proposal and of the problem and it is believed we should apprise im of Bal I' s letter. ~, i . ' ' ' ' 
,tl 
- 2 -
NW 3 
lmdlld 
