13-00000 
• TOP SECRET DINAR 
SOVIET BLOC RELAT.IONS - cont'd 
There have been no reported Castro appearances around 15 
November. On 7 November he talked with a group of students 
.at Havana University and on 19 November he reportedly visited 
a PURS meeting in Mat~nzas. However, between .these two . 
dates there is no ~urrent evidence that he appeared on Cuban 
radio or TV, and Hoy carried no reports of his personal appear­
ances i·n Cuba. Tnls does not, however, rule .out the possibility 
that he was indeed in Cuba in mid-November. (CIA IN 75946, S 
Dece~ber, SECRET) 
BLOC ECONOMIC RELATIONS: 
Warsaw has assigned five merchantmen with a capacity of 
44, 000 tons to the Cuban - Central American trade, according to 
an announcement by Havana television. The ships, one of which 
is refrigerated, will be operated by CUBALCO--the Ro~tock-head­
quartered joint company chartered by Poland, the GDR, Czecho­
slovakia and Cuba to carry goods between Cuba and the northern 
s~tellites. In the words of Havana t~levision, '~he enterprise 
will be responsible for guaranteeing supplies to the first 
, s,ocialist country ·of America, thereby contr,ibut.ing to the 
defeat of the US economic blockade against Cuba." (CIA/FBIS, 
i 7 December, ~c~ss;_F~-ED) • . 2_q • • 
. Soviet/air ·aefe~se)and Cuban fclvil air voice)communica­
tions on 7 Decembe·r reflected the ~ival in Cub;(' of a Soviet­
made AN-12 •• • ·. (See Daily Summary, 6 December). The following 
day, Prensa Latina announced that "the Cuban air force" had 
acquired a four-engine, turboprop craft with a 14,000-ton 
freight capacity for use in a service between Moscow and Havana. 
Prensa Latina said that the plane would be used to carry 
freight between the two capitals and "three or four stops at 
cities not yet announced by the Cuban consolidated aviation 
enterprise." 
The references to·the AN-12 being acquired by the "Cuban 
1 
Air Force," followed by statemen:ts attributed to CUBANA offi­
cials as to its future employment, raise confusion as to 
. whether it is to be used primarily for military or civil air 
! purposes. As pointed out previously,· however (see Daily 
Summary of 3 December), the AN-12 can be used interchangeably 
in both types of service. Its employment in bringing mili­
tary cargoes to Cuba from the Soviet Union would be hampered, 
' however, by range factors which would require it to refuel 
at two or more nonbloc airports between Cuba and the USSR. 
At these airports the aircral_t c:ould be subject to cargo in­
spections. (USA-71, 2/DG1StJltUAYR-853-63, 7 December, SE­
CRET KIMBO; CIA/FBIS, Havana, 8 Uecember, UNCLASSIFIED) 
I ~ 
-10-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
