... 
l 
SECRET Betsy Palmer 
May 1, 1978 
'l 1 XII - J l,.,c.4 .,.., b 1964 • o umE: ____ anu~ 7U - ~ e ruary _ 
l. Intelligence In:formation Cable, 4 January 1961.i. - information from 
Carlos Hernandez Hernandez, an Executive Member of Brigade 2506 veterans 
Association said the Brigade rejected a proposed alliance with JURE on 
December 7, 1963. Brigade is apposed to Artime, but more opposed to Ray. 
2. Identification provided by CIA for Ray in his attempt to in:filtrate 
Cuba. Request made 6 January 1964 - Ray to use identity of Juan Cardenas 
,, Mendez. 
3. Cable to Director from J1-fWAVE, dated 8 January 1964, Dir Cite :.,AVE 0106 
( AM0T-84 said he learned from newspaperman Abelardo (Garcia) Berry that Ray 
had met in Paris with Carlos Franqui Mesa to propose that Franqui join 
Ray's organization, that is, sector of "Betrayed Revolution". Garcia 
believes that in order to obtain Franqui's defection, Ray told him ~bout 
alleged plans of U.S. to overthrow Castro in which Ray was to play a 
prominent part. Garcia further believes that Franqui's "falling into 
disgrace" in Cuba is a trick of Castro and Franqui. 
4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 8 January 1964 states that Governor Munoz 
Marin, Puerto Rico, pledged to give Ray double any amount Ray raised on a 
bond sale by JURE to buy guns. JURE has large quantity of arms in P.R. 
under protection of the Governor. 
5, Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 14 January 1964. Cisneros said JURE 
has militarJ training base in Costa Rica under coIIIrDand of JuJ.io Cesar Alonso, 
Military Chief of JURE, All JURE boats now at Costa Rican base and also 
arms which had been in Puerto !lice. Said JURE leaders do not plan to 
to work in Miami area or anywhere else in U.S. because they are afraid 
CIA will seize their military equipment. 
6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 16 Jan 1964 - .t,;;ntaup/2 reported that 
/,.m-li/.~/1:/.#.i~//.::l,.,J:t.~ Julio Cesar Alonso replaced as chief of Costa Rican 
military base of JURE because of his failure to go on a scheduled operation. 
(Check to see if this was the aborted mission of 25 November 1963) 
6. Cable to DIR from JM';iAVE, dated 30 January 1964. .A.mtaup/2 reported 
conversation with Sergio Sanchez and Rogelio Cisneros: Cisneros said ?BI and 
I}IS, Puerto Rico, picked up JURE arms and explosives cached at Cajon de 
Muerto. Before JURE could pick each up, it was discovered by a fisherman who 
advised authorities. JURE boat found and searched, but not retained as they 
ha.it thrown antiaircraft guns overboard. Governor of P.R. called newspapers 
and informed them he thought Castro had cached the arms in order to overthrow 
P.R. Cisneros says he did this to sidetrack FBI and TITS investagations and 
to eliminate possibility Ray's activities would be revealed. Cisneros 
said JURE boat located in P.R. and registered in Pana.ma. in name of person 
who is extremely close to governor P. 2. and bitter enemy of C:IA,. ..;mtaup/2 
questioned ~y Governor P.R. was trusted by Jure, to wh~ch Cisn 7ros re~l~ed 
that Governor primarily nationalist and enemy of U.S. imperialist politics 
and therefore an enemy of CIA, S £CR£T 
