13-00000 
( 
. , 
First, how will agencies and others who hold records 
define the universe of "relevant" Kennedy assassination 
materials? It is important to be able to go beyond the frame of 
reference of previous inquiries of commissions and committees, 
but the question must be asked: Where will the search for 
documents end? 
Second, the definition and search for "relevant 
assassination material" also raises important questions of human 
resources and costs to organize and make material available to 
the Review Board. How much will this cost? 
Third, what is the best mechanism to govern the review 
and release of records in an independent, accountable, and 
credible manner. The tension between management and public 
confidence in the process cannot be overlooked. However, it may 
be important to simplify the process. The bill proposes a 
five-member Review Board, with an Executive Director and staff. 
Are we creating a Rube Goldberg machine, or are these layers 
necessary? 
Fourth, we must ask why the bill, which acts in the name 
of openness in government, also exempts the Review Board from 
the Government in the Sunshine Act, the Freedom of Information 
Act, the Administrative Procedures Act, and judicial review? 
Fifth, is the issue of standards for postponement of 
disclosure. I strongly believe that the government should 
practice disclosure of information as the rule, unless there are 
demonstrable reasons for protecting the information. It is 
important to emphasize that while hundreds of thousands of pages 
of material will be released, the bill contains national 
security and privacy exemptions, and withholds personnel and 
administrative records relating to past official inquiries. 
I personally believe that the agencies and the Congress, 
which hold Kennedy assassination records should not wait for the 
passage of legislation, and the resolution of all issues in the 
bill, before releasing documents. It is my intention to move 
legislation through the Committee as quickly as possible, but 
regardless it will take time for whatever authority is created 
in statute to become assembled, establish procedures, and begin 
its work. We will hear today how ready key agencies and 
congressional officials are to release their records. If even 
some of the material can go out the door without further 
adjustments, then let's give the public access now. The review 
board or whatever authority is created will certainly have the 
opportunity to face the more difficult issues shortly 
thereafter. 
Today we are fortunate to have several experts and 
authorities to discuss these issues. These include the authors 
of the legislation, as well as the Director of the Central 
Intelligence Agency and the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
- 3 -
