( 
·( 
( 
NW 88321 
[ 
[ 
SECTION 107 .SECURITY INFORl!ANTS. AND CONFI~-liL SOURCES, 1071 
(4} 
. (s l 
{6) 
"Number of statements submitted 
Combine total number of oral and written statements submitted 
and show only total number . 
Stability and reliability 
Check positive box if informant is considered stable and 
reliable. If not or if there are any personal weaknesses, 
domestic difficulties, inaications •of untrustworthiness or 
unreliability, or any other similar problems presented by 
informant, check negative box and explain under 11Niscellan,eous." 
Indoctrination against disclosure 
If informant has been indoctrinated against disclosure~ check 
positive box. 
(7) Percentage of inf·ormation verified 
Show percentage of information furnished by informant which has. 
been verified through other sources. 
(B) All necessary action taken on information furnished 
If all action has been taken, check positive b~x. If not, check 
negative box and explain under n:rruscellaneous. 11 . 
{9} Sum.~Ary of information furnished 
This su~.mary should be concise, highlighting more pertinent 
information furnis·hed by iµf'ormant. Do not attempt to surmnarize 
all information furnished by informant. 
{10} Miscellaneous 
Furnish any chan~e in informant's residence and employment[by 
secure teletype {nitel), ]steps ~eing taken to advance informant, 
and any other pertinent information which should be brought to 
Bureau's attention. Include statement that source has been 
advised that all payments of money made to him for services 
rendered must be declared as income on his tax return and has 
agreed to do so. 
c. When payment to informant has been authorized for definite period of 
time, advise Bureau at least two weeks in advance of expiration of 
period as to whether services of informant are to be continued .. 
d. Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments. Follow instructions set forth in item 3b, above. 
e •. Submit letters requesting authority to continue (i·ncrease, decrease) 
payments to an informant in duplicate except that copy should con­
sist only of first page of letter. When payments are approved, 
single-page copy will be stamped "Approved" at Bureau and returned. 
If recommendation is not approved, field will be advised by separate 
cominunica ti on . 
. f. When payments are authorized by Bureau, it is personal responsibility 
of each SAC definitely to assure that full value is being received. 
g. Discontinuance of payments 
If at any time it appears information being produced by informant is 
•· not commensurate with payments made to him, immediately discontinue 
payments or adjus~ accordingly and promptly advise Bureau. 
h. If any extraordinary expenses are anticipated for which approval has 
not been given, obtain specific Bureau authority. 
4. Six-month evaluation of informants not paid on Bureau authority, 
If informant is not being paid on Bureau authorization, FD-401 must be 
transmitted to Bureau every six months af~er date of designation con­
taining same information set out in item 3b, above, except those items 
concerning payments. Recom.~endation of SAC regarding continuance of 
informant should also be set forth U.A.CB. In espionage and foreign 
nationality cases, comment is necessary regarding only applicable items . 
. 5. Receipts • 
When payments are made either on SAC authority or prior Bureau approval, 
obtain receipts in every instance in which it is possible to do so. If 
receipt cannot be obtained for particular payment, set forth complete 
circumstances on blue slip at time reimbursement is claimed. 
1164 . 
15 
3,-13-73 
I 
I I 
.! 
