107C-D 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
SECTION SECURITY INFORMANTS MTD CON.NTIAL SOURCES. 
Inquiries of discreet nature concerni-ng individual's person,al history 
(date and place of bi~th, ~to.}, patriotism, health, reliability, 
stability, integrity, general reputation, present and pa.st employments, 
and business ·connections. Investigation must definitely establish that 
individual can be used without danger of future embarrassment due 
to instability or unreliability. Securing background information from 
individual is not sufficient; his background must be established by· 
investigation, including discreet inq_uirie s among persons personally 
acauainted with him. 
Check local arrest records. Submit FD-165 to Identification Division 
to obtajn any record he may have and to place stop against fingerprints 
if on file. 
Review armed services record if applicabl~. 
Check draft status or status in armed forces reserve. 
Check domestic status and, if any marital difficulties, obtain details. 
Persons being considered for use in espionage and foreign P.'.'l-;tionality 
cases may present special problems which limit scope of investigation. 
{See instructions_ re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, 
volume IV, of this manual.) However, where practical, c?ver above items. 
Leads must be handled by auxiliary office~ within 30 days.. Investigation 
must be completed prior to any request to guide, direct, or designate in­
dividual as potential security informant. 
D. APPROVAL, !NDOCTRINATION, AND DEVELOPMENT OF POTENTIAL INFORMANTS 
1. When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same 
numerical sequence set out in subsection C, and request authority to de•s­
ignate individual as Bureau-approved potential security informant and to 
proceed with development. Submit by secure teletype (usually Nitel). 
Be brief and concise. Do not submit on UACB basis. Include physical 
description. 
a. If the individual is a student, include separate paragraph clearly 
setting forth the number of extremist and/or security fnformants, 
the number of potential extremist and/or potential security in-· 
formants, and the number of panel sources currently being ·operated at 
the particular college or university to which the request pertains. 
2. After designation as Bureau-approved potential security informant, fol­
lowing matters should be made clear to him: 
a. His assistance is strictly voluntary and he is to understand there is 
no coercion or intimidation,involved. 
b. He is not and cannot consider himself employee or "undercover Agent" 
of FBI. Seriousness of violating impersonation statutes must be 
impressed upon him. 
c. His cooperation must be strictly confidential at all times and it 
he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so 
advise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informant 
that his re·1ationship must remain on confidential basis and if he 
violates confidence he will be of no value -and by so doing Bureau's 
investigative activity may be jeopardized. If he has special 
problem which would require revealing his assistance to his wife or 
other pertinent individual, this should be ascertained and appropriate 
recommendation made to Bureau. • 
d. If potential informant is connected in any manner with labor union, 
inform him that Bureau is not interested in employer-employee relation­
ships a.s such and is only concerned with obtaining information on 
infiltration of unions by subversive elements. 
!NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1713 
-4 
2-J.4-72 
( 
( 
( 
