13-00000 
have to be done rationally. I also believe that it 
wi i 1 have to be done by humanists. and that before 
they can do it, we have somehow to lower, or at least 
make more permeable, the barrier that separates the 
Two Cultures. We will come back to this point later. 
Before that, let us return to the notion that engi­
neers choose what they will work on. 
The Choices of Engineen 
Most engineers do not make cosmic choices. They 
do not decide that this product will be built and 
that one won't be. Practically all engineers, I sus­
pect, work for other engineers, who work for others, 
who work in companies where the products are deter­
mined not by science or philosophy, but by market 
analysis. Now market analysis has come a long way 
since the days of the Edsel,' and it often guesses 
-~rately, although not always so, what the public 
u·interested in buying. But what the public buys is 
not necessarily what it needs. 
The Market-Place Guessing Game 
We buy those things that are offered for sale 
that are better (in some vague way) than the alter­
natives available to us. Except for advertising or 
other ways of influencing public opinion, the basic 
mechanism of the market-place is a guessing game. 
Try this product, see if it sells. If it does, fig­
ure out what it was about it that sold, and push a 
little harder. If this one does not sell, retrench 
a little, or gamble on another change - and so on. 
Advertising and public opinion do play important 
roles - how else explain so many different labels 
on the same bar of soap, the same automobile? -
but the decision as to how the engineers' skills 
will be used has, in the past, been largely deter­
mined by the instantaneous outcome of the market 
game. 
Major Civil Problems 
Now please do not misunderstand me. The market­
place mechanisms are important for determining soap 
or automobile styles, I believe that criteria of 
risk-and-return of investment are elements of our 
decision-making processes that we could discard only 
at great peril to our society. What I am saying is 
that the major civil problems: pollution, poverty, 
and population density, for examples, are not likely 
to be defined by market analysis. 
These problems, for which acceptable solutions 
are needed, share these characteristics: 
First, they cross product classification lines, 
and involve more than one sector of the economy. 
They are not just problems of the auto industry, or 
the mining companies, or manufacturing-but-not­
service-industries - they involve all of these. 
All the skills that all these sectors employ may 
have to be applied to these problems. The cement 
plants in the country and the transport companies in 
the city have pollution problems that differ only i~ 
detail. To expect them to do the necessary research 
and development. separately, each with his eye on his 
own segment of the market, is to postpone until 
much too late, if not forever, soJving even the 
smaller parts of our problems. The problems, s~ to 
speak, are too big. 
These Problems are Hardly Separable 
In the same way, the major civil problems are not 
readily separable. One can rP.dur.P. thP Amnunt nf Ai" 
pollution caused by internal combustion engines by 
using electric autos, for example. If so, we may 
replace polluted air in the cities with polluted 
streams out in the country where the new massive 
power plants .are, Or we can replace with solar 
energy the fissionable materials or fossil fuels we 
now use for power; however, at least in the near 
future, we would then have either much less energy 
or much more costly energy, and fewer Jobs and more 
poverty. (Some among us t~nd to paint even blacker 
pictures. They point out that our society gave up 
slavery only when our technology developed to the 
point where machines were cheaper than slaves. Is 
it possible that we could deliberately reverse this 
process and end up with clean air, but with slaves?) 
This characteristic of tight linkage, or insep­
arability of the big problems, also suggests that 
we cannot rely upon the ordinary market-place mech­
anisms to determine how we employ our technology to 
solve our problems.-
Ve,y Difficult Problems 
The third characteristic of our problems.that 
forces us to reconsider the mechanisms of choice, 
is that our problems are so very difficult. The 
technical solutions do not exist outside of social 
considerations. The social costs outweigh such us­
ual factor costs as materials, labor, and capital. 
Our cities present much tougher problems than put­
ting man on the moon, As someone smarter than but 
unknown to me, has said, "We couldn't have put a 
man on the moon it' the moon had been inhabited". 
World-wide and Nation-wide Problems 
All these characteristics, and others that I've 
left out, such as geographical diversity - some 
problems are not local, nor even regional or nation­
al, but world-wide - suggest that the organizations 
needed for these new problem-solving teams differ 
considerably from those of even our biggest, most 
diversified companies, or else t~at we need some 
• super-industrial team of coordinators, who are to be 
responsive not to the elements of the market-place, 
but rather to the public interest. Whether that 
public is regional, or national or world-wide, some­
one who has thought this problem further through 
must tell, My own thoughts, tempered by a certain 
sourly pragmatic view of the interactions of vari­
ous national governments, suggests that the approach 
most likely to succeed in the near future is the na­
tional one. 
The National Science Policy and Priorities Act 
The essentials of a first step in a national plan 
are contained in the National Science Policy and 
Priorities Act, which, among other things, sets up 
procedures for contracting out to universities, com­
panies and other organizations, the research and de­
velopment necessary for solution of the major civil 
problems, including the design of civil science sys­
tems. Whether an agency like NASA should be set up, 
as the Act says, or whether an existt,!g agency 
should supervise new programs, is a matter of de­
bate. The importance to our discussion is that some 
federal funding agency, not the various product 
market-places, should establish the priorities and 
fund the solutions to our civil problems. 
As you see, this bill or Act or plan makes a 
first approach to nationalizing the solution to na-
tinnol n•nhlo•• A• •~~ •~-~ ♦ :-- :. ~•:1, ___ 1---1 
