OO'ERVlEW AND MEETING SlfflARY 
Papich had no personal involvement with White 
House requests. There was discussion both in the 
FBI and between CIA and FBI on expanding coverage 
and development of sources. For example, does 
CIA have anybody who can have an entree into SDS? 
The Katzenbach report had limited the CIA to 
foreign sources or to U. S. students recruited 
abroad. Papich dealt mainly with Ober on this, 
but also with Angleton and Tom Karamenses (DDP). 
Papich believes anything Ober said and did 
reflected CIA policy from the top. The operat·on 
grew like Topsy. CIA compartmented it ver 
tightly and Ober was very security consc 
the FBI, W. C. Sullivan was concerned 
by the assassinations, riots, and 
put on the pressure to find out 
He pressed Papich to pressur 
Regarding assassinatio van was ultimately 
convinced and Belmont need that Oswald 
acted alone. No one erect the question 
of what Oswald did in the Soviet Union. Did he 
get any guidance? Why did they permit him to 
leave? Papich had frequent discussions with 
Dulles and the CIA regarding the Warren Commission 
although he thinks the formal FBI liaison was Jim 
Malloy. The question as to whether Oswald was a 
U. S. intelligence asset never arose. Critics at 
the time said the FBI should have surveilled 
Oswald. Papich recalls discussions of a plan to 
have a CIA or FBI man defect to Moscow but no such 
plan was ever implemented to his knowledge. It was 
not worth the risk. He does not ~now whether the 
CIA did it. He stresses that the FBI 'was not likely 
to use "nuts". 
Regarding the Riha 
not the reason for 
were problems with 
decisions. Pa ch 
on coverage o 
incident, Papich says this was 
his retirement. Instead, there 
Hoover on operations and policy 
(S) an aggressive stand 
Regar 's proposal on expanded FBI cover/ 4 ) 
age o Papich stated that others in the ~ 
CIA i uence cCone to press for more coverage. 
McCone was aggressive. Papich pushed it too. 
This was the time of the Cuban ~lssile crisis . 
• NW 50955 Docld: 32281992 Page 15 
P~e L2or £_ 
tJ3 Cr~-}--~ 
{ (f-€~ 
