DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION 
On March 12, 1959, the Director attended a conference in the Attorney 
General's office in connection with current security programs and matters 
collateral _thereto. The Director expressed the view. that security programs 
had been held in abeyance in the Department of Justice with the result that 
other agencies of the Government were taking advantage of such delays and 
offering as excuses for. nonaction the fact that the ·nepartment of Justice 
had not yet indicated what should be done or should not be done in view of 
some decisions of the courts and anticipated decisions of the courts. The 
Director urged that basic action should be taken on certain of these programs. 
While some of these matters have been acted upon, others are still pending and 
are set forth below for the Director's information. 
(I) Industrial Security Program - At the time of the March conference it 
was decided to wait until the Greene and Taylor cases had gone_ through the 
Supreme Court. This has now occurred and the Supreme Court has indicated 
that there was not proper authority for an Inlustrial Security Program flowing 
f,rom the President or the Congress. The Court also strongly indicate~ that 
even with such authority that there was a need for confrontation of witnesses 
at such hearings. To meet this, the Administration is discouraging legislation 
and approaching the matter through an Executive Order, two drafts of ·which 
have been examined by the Department and the Bureau. The proposed Order 
appears impractical' in some respects and Yeagley of the Department has advised 
us that the Attorney General and the Solicitor General do not like the Order as 
drafted, particularly the "special counsel" concept and Deputy Attorney General 
Walsh is being instructed to ''bounce the Order back to the \Vhi te House. " By 
letter dated September 30, 1959, to the Attorney Gneral, copies to Walsh and 
Yeagley, the Bureau went on record that while we would attempt to live up to 
any Order, the Department should carefully consider the position of the Department 
and the Bureau under the proposed Order in that we would be forced to turn 
down numerous requests to produce informants and sdurces for testimony or 
interview in view of our overriding responsibility to protect their identities in 
the interests of national security. This might open the Department and the 
Bureau up to criticism that we were not living up to the spirit of the Executive 
Ordero 
From the standpoint of the conference with the Attorney General on 
October 6, we think the Bureau's position should be that the Industrial Security Pro­
gram problem should be settled either through Executive Order or legislation; 
___ -7_-
