1 ~.:0.0.000 
-
•~r:.-.\: 
.{(;":~:\\-:·::·:· 
•.:.:-:::. -~ 
. • 
1 
i 
I 
i 
I 
! 
i 
L 
If you went through this Jetter-writing process and the paper war that gO&S 
on so often in the Government it might take a. week or 10 days. 
The FBI does have 10 legal attaches attached to 10 embassies abroad. Their 
purpose is not operational. They don't investigate in triose countries any matters 
that have to be investigated. That, if it is to be done, is handled by CIA, Our 
purpose in being there is to maintain liaison with our opposite number such as 
the Surete Nationale in France and with the national police in the Philippines, 
to exchange information that is vital to our internal security, and also vi_tal to 
the internal security of the other country. • 
Senator CooPER. May I ask one other question? 
Is there any, considering the number of defectors tn the United States to 
Communi"st countries, which cannot be large, I would assume--
Mr. HOOVER. I think there are about 36. 
Senator CooPER. Which would indicate, I would think either a lack of re­
liability on their part and stability or beyond that a dedicated purpose to become 
Communists, then upon their return, wouldn't it seem to you they should be given 
some special attention? 
Mr. HOOVER. We have now---
Sena tor CooPER. To determine whether they are a risk to become Soviet or 
Communist espionage agents or in fact become dangerous? 
Mr. HoovER. We have taken steps to plug that gap. 
Prior to the assassination of the President, a 'defector, before he came back 
was always cleared for return by a representative of the State Department'. or 
the military abroad. When he· came back we immediately interviewed him 
if he was a civilian. It had to be done promptly to determine whether he could 
be a potential intelligence agent. 
Now, in December of last year, following the assassination, we expanded the 
criteria of what should be furnished to the Secret Service, and all defectors 
automatically go on the list to be furnished to the Secret Service. 
There are 36 defectors that we know of in this country who have been under 
investigation. Some of those men may have changed their views • sincerely. 
Some of them may not have. But as a matter of general precaution, as a result 
of the Oswald situation, we are seeing that all go to the Secret Service. 
Mr. Duu..Es. That includes military defectors, does it not? 
Mr. HOOVER. Military defectors and defectors from any private agency, after 
they return to the U.S. and become civilians. Some have defected to China, 
to the satellite nations and to Russia. 
Senator CooPER. Just one other question, because I have to go. 
In the course of this investigation, as you know so well, there have been a 
number identified who were very close, at least to Mrs, 03wald, and a few, I 
can't say that were close to Oswald yet they had association with him, such as 
the man who drove him back and forth, Mrs. Paine, with whom Mrs. Oswald 
lived, and others, has there been any credible, I won't say credible because if 
you had you would have presented it to us in your report, has there been any 
claims by persons that these people are in any way related to the Communist 
Party? 
Mr. HOOVER. We have had no credible evidence that they have been related 
to the Communist Party in this country. 
Now, as to Mrs. Oswald, the wife of Oswald, there is no way of knowing 
whether she belonged to the Russian Communist Party in Russia. She ii! a 
rather intelligent woman, and notwithstanding tbat you have to talk with her 
through an interpreter, we have -had no indication of her association with 
Communists in this country, nor have any of her close friends or relatives. 
As to his mother, we found no indication she is associated or closely asso­
ciated with the Communists. She is the only one of the group that we have 
come in contact with that I would say is somewhat emotionally unstable. Our 
agents have interviewed her. She sometimes gets very angry and she won't 
answer questions. As to-the rest of the group who had been friends of his, or 
worked with him in the Texas School Book Depository, none of them have 
indicated any Communist associations of any kind. 
Senator CooPER. Thank you . 
110 
