• J .....,,. .. 
~ECRET 
Miscellaneous documents ncr'in files 
Page 3 
8. Information Report - CU.ba/Dominican Republic 
Betsy Palmer 
11tJ.08G3 
SUbject: Purchase of a Boston Whaler for Manuel Ray Rivero, 
Leader of the Junta Revolucionaria CU.ba.na (JURE) 
18 September 1964 Date: 
_. 
Source: Naturalized American citizen - formerly in shipping business 
in Cuba, veil-trained and experienced debriefer 
On 14 Sept 1964, a Miami yacht mrl.ld.er firm purchased a 13-foot six inch 
Boston waler for Ray. Purchaser, Angel Aixala Pertierra said he planned 
to go to..Santo Domingo to get permission to operate the wha.ler in Dominican 
waters, and once this had been granted, vould deliver the boat to Ray. 
It vas on Aixala's Catamaran ct 1208 D, that Ray made his ill-fated initial 
attempt to enter Cuba. A1xala is not a member of JURE. 
Classified Message to Director, from~aris j 
Date: 8 June 1963 
Ray ani Emio Guede arrived in Paris and Ray contacted by Nauman on 7 June. 
Reviewed plan for Franqui recruitment in place. Urged Ray to take 
immediate action before his presence in .-:Paris 'W'8.5 leaked . .,Guede tries 
to contact Franqui by phone am on all occasions, phone answered by Fil.1th 
• Sorel or her roomate, Helene Pul.ish {phonetic). Guede leaves message aach 
time and on last call told Franqui going to Brussels and may have already 
left. Ou. 7 June Guede sees Franqui at the opem.ng of his exhibition and 
talks to him. Franqui listened to him, but made no responses to his 
veiled overatures. Guede surmizes Franqui not interested -- thinks he is 
incapable of defending regime but not willing or capable of breaking with 
it. Grovery ·and JFEvAY met Ray. Feel this important re possible future 
use Ray Europe. Pari support excellent. (c/s comment: HQS has reason 
believe no obstacle convincing Ray push for Franqui return for period to be 
eyes and ears anti-Castro conspiracy.) 
~ 10. Cable Report to Director, from~sJ 
Date: 14 June 1963 
Ray aod party travel to ~ssel.s on ll JUne, and Ray continues his efforts 
( to recruit an agent in place for CIA:)Contacts Guil.l.amo Cabrera and 
•Surmised Cabrera held back from a break due to his concern for a brother 
inside vbo is ill. Ray asks Cabrera to arrange a meeting with Gustave A:rcos 
but Cabrera unable. to do so since t,:rcost,jlfi-t leaving for a few days. R~ 
extends his trip. Ceontacts Nauman who tells Hay it is not possible to ...J 
resolve all the personal problems of those he has contacted and Ray must 
shov them the vi.sdom and practicality of working in place as a means of 
eliminating the regime. Ray willing to settle for defection as he believes 
this hafl an impact on the regime. Report states that Ray extremely active, 
moves fast ani purposefully, and has given impression of frank cooEa~ion. 
Has volunteered to assign a man to be station contact, but feels(.olyuM..tSLE 2 
is too young but should be aware of whomever is designated. 
