ii 
I 
ii -5-
1, . , i. 
!: • \~; . '. ! . : i :'.• . .' ', 
Ii . ' .·.·, .. ', ·./ :.! ·,, \... - J 
• • 11 . i 
On 3 December, Headquarters furnished JMWAVE some details on the 
Amlash meeting including the fact that he had been promised "full U.S. 
support if he is successful in a real coup against .the Castro regime. 11 
He was also pro!T).i.sed arms which will have to be furnished through JMWAVE' s operations. · . • • · 
A series of confusing cables passed. between Headquarters and JMWAVE 
on December 6, 7, and 8. Apparently, Headquarters first gave JMWAVE 
authority to drop a cache of arms in Cuba. Then Headquarters called 
off the operation. In DIR 8 7615 of 7 December, it is noted 11 maj or 
top level Cuban/Caribbean policy review scheduled early next week which 
should provide basis for decision." . , . I 
JMWAVE complained about the change in orders in a cable of 8 
December.· JMWAVE 8702 pointed out that one Headquarter's message 
indicated December infiltration operations were approved by higher.author­
ity but a second message in~icated a scheduled operation should be de­
layed and not run in Decemb~r. 
~ 
-1 
Headquarters responded in DIR 87880. Headquarters procedure 
was to present infiltration operation plans to "higher authority" 
even though there is a reasonable chance operation may be postponed 
or delayed as was fase with the scheduled operation. "This procedure 
will secure approval for the operation with only telephonic reconfirma­
tion needed when previously relaxed operation finally mounted. 
11 
Head­
quarters recormnended delay until. January after considering and equating 
objectives against risk factors for Amlash and others. "Believe by 
January, CIA should be in position better evaluate status of internal 
assets." 
By Pari 1914 of 13 December, Paris reported that Amlash left 
Paris for Prague on November 27 but did not seek recontact with case 
officer. DIR 90966 to JMWAVE of 23 December reported that Havana radio 
on 2 December stated Amlash arrived Cuba on 1 December. 
. The last document in Amlash' s file for the perio,d ending December 
1963, is a long report on Amlash, but it does not contain information 
relevant to the October-November activities. Nevertheless, in red pen 
on the cover page appears·: "Dec 1963 Not to leave this office on Nestor's 
(Sanchez) orders." followed .by initials that ·appear to be "GM." 
One later document in the Amlash file contains·more information 
about the November 22, 1963 meeting. That document, a rough draft of 
a biographical information sheet on Amlash (no final ·draft was found) 
appears to have been preparediin 1966 at the time of Amlash's arrest 
for a later plot against Castro. It states: "22 Nov. 63 Mr._ Fitzgerald 
and Mr. Sanchez assured subject that this Agency would give him every­
thing he needed- (telescopi'c sight, silencer, all the money he wanted). 
The situation changed when Mr. Sanchez and Mr; Fitzgerald left the meet­
ing to discover that President Kennedy had been assassinated. Because 
of this fact, plans with subject changed and it was decided that this 
mt -5.0955 Docld: 32423630_ Page 479 
