d. Above also applies.to Agent's notes taken during surveillances or 
con6erning evidence otherwise obtained. 
11. Intervievrn with subjects of security investigations 
a. Policy 
87E 
No secur.ity investigation of an individual is to be closed unless 
subject is included in sec-urity index or consideration given to 
interview. Bureau will not authorize cancellation of security index 
card for inactivity until subject has been interviewed or Bureau 
advised why inter-view is inadvisable. 
b. Purpose 
(1) When in-vestigation is inconclusive, to determine· subject's · 
sympathies and whether he continues to adhere to revolutionary 
doctrines 
·(2} To develop information concerning activities of sub"ject and his 
associates in subversive movement 
(3) To develop informants 
c. SAC authority 
Without Bureau authority SAC may: 
{1) Authorize interviews with individuals who have not been s.ubjects 
of security investigation~ and available information does not 
warrant opening case . 
(2) • Authorize interviews' of subjects of security cases \·Tho have 
previously been interviewed with Bureau authority, provided no 
change has taken place in subject.'s status and inter-views are 
conducted under same conditions as previously authorized 
(3) Authorize interviews of subjects of closed security cas~s in­
cl~ding persons who were on security index but were removed 
(4) Authorize interviews of rank-and-file black extremists except 
as noted in section 122, volume IV, of this manual 
d. Procedures for interviews under SAC authority 
(1) If there is closed file, reopen it. If none, open case in 134 
cat~gory to resolve whether subject is identical with information 
in files and determine his current employment and -residence. 
(2} Case Agent will prepare memorandum requesting SAC authority to 
conduct interview of subject to ·determine his attitude towards 
cooperation with FBI . 
. {3) During first contact Agent should identify himself, outline 
Bureau's responsibilities in security field, and request subject's 
a.ss-istance. If individual has been member of basic revolutionary 
organization and appears cooperative, he may be questioned about 
his own acti-vities. However, this interview is for sole purpos~ 
of determining whether subject might be cooperative. 
(4)_ If cooperative, advise Bureau.and conduct background investigation 
under section 107, volume IV, of this manual. If uncooperative, 
prepare brief memorandum for file and close case.· Letter to 
Bureau not necessary. 
e. Prior Bureau a.ut~ority 
Prior Bureau authority required for: 
{1) Subjects of active current investigation where no prior, Bureau 
authority has been obtained 
{2) Closed cases on current security index subjects where no prior 
interview has been conducted 
·(3) Subjects of investigations requested by Bureau, both open and 
closed, such as applicant and loyalty cases 
(4) Individuals when circumstances indicate delicate situation and 
greater than usual risk involved, such as labor leaders and 
individuals in educational, mass media, religious, or puolish­
ing fields. Bureau authority needed e-ven though there were 
prior interviews. 
(5
6
) Security sub.iects who have publicly disc·losed previous contacts 
( ) Subjects of section A reserve index cards 
In above cases, no report need be submitted when requesting Bureau 
authority to interview subject. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1956 
