.. • 
SENATE _SELECT COMr-UTTEE ON. IlfrELL:tGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
Volume II, Which contains instructions to be followed for 
- investigations carried out pursuant to EO 10450, ~s amendedo 
This should be referred ~o for an under$tanding of the FBI's 
policy and procedures. 
Section 8(d)·reada ae follows: 
. . 
There shall be referred promptly to the Federal 
Bureaµ of Inves_tigation· all in.ve.etigations 
being conducted by any other· agencies which 
develop information indicating that an indivi­
dual .may have be·en subjected to coercion, 
influence, or presst1re to act contrary to 
the interests o!:·the national securityr or 
information relating to any of ~e mat.tera 
described.in subdivisions (2) through (8) 
of subsec::tion (a) of this section. In casem· 
-· 
so ref'erred to • it, t.he Federal Bureau of 
Investigat.ion shall make a fu-11 field investigation. 
Chapter 736 of the Federal Personnel. Manual 
.instructs ageneies • to promptly refer to the FBI for -
investiga't!ion, cases "which develop infonnation indicating 
that a person may have been subject to coercion,. influence, 
or pressure to a,et qontrary to the interests of the n~tional 
-security, ex- -information on p,ssibl.e disloyalty to th~ 
United States~" This Chapter also requires that 11 information 
as to subversive activity on the pa?:t of employ-ees in the 
ExeeuUve Branch ... ,. . is r~ferred by the emp,loying agency. ~ , .. 
to the Federal Bureau o:f Invesi!:l.gationil so that necessary 
investigation is conducted by the FBi. • 
In a memorandum dated August 19, 1974, (enclosed), 
to the Deputy Assist.ant Attorney General, c-rlininal Division, 
with a copy.for the Director, Department Security Staff, 
Department of Justice, ~eferenoe was made to EO 11785 dated 
June 4, 1974# (enclosed), which abolished the Attorney 
Ganetal 1 s list of designated organi~atlons,. one of th.e 
standards used by the FBI in initiating invest:.igations of 
uidividu-a1s pq~suant to EO 10450. It was pointed out this­
standard was eliminated with regard to inve13tigat.iona of 
applicants and employees in the Executive· Branch which may 
be·· initiated by ·'the FBI based on information in our files 
