G, 
( 
SECTIOl1 107. ]1CURI'.J.'Y INF'ORH/.1TTS AND COlH,IDEJ"'~JL SOURCES 
I1::1 0illi.AlI'.i.'S I IH:E'OR.l·LA_TI. • • • 
1. General instructions re oral and written informstion 
107G 
a. InGtruotions regarding preparation, submission, and handling of 
inform:-i.tion z·eceiYed from informan·bs apply no~ only to s eC\'ri ty 
informants but 2.lso to potent:i.al security informants, panel sourcea, 
security confidential so~rces, ani security sources of information. 
b. Specific instructions and guidance mus-'.; be given to inf·ormn.nts 
concerning preparation of statements containing their i~fohnation. 
c. They should bo submitted as quickly as possible after a meoting 
or acti Yi ty. 
d. Wri·l;·l;en statE:ments should be submi ttec1 w'b,enove1· possible, b11.t if such 
cannot be done information may be provided orally. In espionage ~nd 
foreign nationality matters written statements are usu~lly necessary 
only in those instv.nces imrolving possible futn:re prosecution. (In 
the majority of cases diplomats or officials who are not su'Ljec·t to 
prosecution are involved.) 
e. CarefulJ.y scru·bini:;:c E)2.oh, be.i.:t'ing in minc1 that. if informant is called 
upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely ~e 
introduced in court. 
f. All information furnished by informants orally or in writing must be 
promptly revjewed, recorded, indexed, evaluated, channelized, and all 
necessary 2.ction taken. Form FD-306 may be 1rned in lieu of a chan­
nelizing memorandum if desired, If so used> prepare copies of· FD-306 
as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy of the 
informant's statemeffc being channelized. Channelization should be 
noted on original FD-306 and on all copies under "Remarks." 
g. Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, advise the trial 
attorney that informant not only furnished information concerning 
instant case but also provided other statem~nts not pertinent to case 
at issue. The trial attorney will thus be prepared in the event 
informant testifies on direct examination or cross-examination that 
he furnished information in addition to his testimony, 
h, See sutfaection M for instructions regarding filing informant statements. 
2. Recording written and oral infor;nation 
a. Writte::-1 by informant 
( 1) !fay be in handwriting or hand printing of informant or typed,. 
( 2) Origin:;.l only should be submi tJi;cd and i nforma.ntf. s ho1.1.ld never 
retain any copies or notes relating there·!;o. Continuously check 
infor;nan·!;s to see that they do not keep any notf,S or copies. 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification. 
Date when informant prepares statement should be placed at the 
top of it. 
( 5) All informatio-n ob·~ained by informants regarding each meeting 
or e2.ch separate activity in which the-y engage should be sub­
mitted in one statement whether the information is of 
evidentiary or intelligence value. 
l"Oa 
6-13-62 •. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1340 
