14-00000 
,, ... 
• 
l6 April 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR TBE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Special Group (5412) meeting, ZS April 1963 
Attended by Bundy, Johnson, Gilpatric, P...-icCone 
1. CIA weekly report on our acti vltles was reviewed without 
comment. No requests were made. No actions are needed. 
,.-:· 9( 
l. LExtenslve tliacueaions of Del's recommendations for low-
level reconnalaaance of Cuba. Gilpatric rahed the question of political 
coneequences. Johnson responded that Mr. Hughes had submitted a 
paper to him indicating the Soviets would take a harder line under these 
provocations. He reported that Thompson appeared to feel that low­
levels would be used as a basia to halt withdrawal and possibly intensify 
the situation in Laos and elsewhere and that our interests would be 
adversely affected. I took tho position that intelligence requirements 
were such that low-levels must be i:ontinued. It was agreed to go to 
higher authority with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense 
present. Arrangements were made for a meeting about 6:30, l5 Apr9 
3. Mr. FitzGerald presented the proposed new covert policy 
toward Cuba, reviewing the situation and specific operations in con­
siderable detail. The Group were impressed with the planning. They 
were not prepared to act, and suggested the matter be discussed with 
higher authority, and also that action be withheld until the Standing 
Group had further deliberated on the question. 
f~ 
4. Ceovert action in the Congo was dlecusaed. Bronson Tweedy 
reported briefly. The CIA proposal was approved;) 
6 
eyg 
5. The proposed feint operations of GROSBEAK were discussed 
in some detail. Colonel Steakley suggested thta operation might prejudice 
their ELINT operations. However, it was agreed that the exercise would 
be undertaken during the :May dark-of-the-moon period and the results 
reported back to the Special Group prior to reaching a decision for reaching 
approval of continuing operations. Jorgenson was instructed accordingly. 
ACTION: CIA ls authorized to undertake this operation: 
it should be watched carefully. reported accurately and 
fully, and brought before the Special Group at the time 
we're considering the : June operation0 
