107U 
6. 
7. 
SECTION 10.SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFI.TIAL SOURCES 
Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used for assistance in Recurity 
inve~ti.ration:c<, secure Bureau approval, and background data must 
be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is required 
for potential security informants. 
b, Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in. which the 
frequency of co·ntact is dependent upon circumstances of' the individual 
case, confidential sources on whom pending files are ~aintained shpuld 
also be contacted at least once every two weeks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
c. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted. 
d. Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by the Agent 
or Agents specifically designated for that purpose. 
e, The letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use a sub5eot 
as a confidential source is to set out clearly the following.informa­
tion: 
(1) Background information, including date and place of birth~ 
citizenship status, residence 9 employment, credit and arrest 
record, and service record, if any 
(2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together with the results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
(3) A statement to the effect subject is being considered a con­
fidential source and that he will be advised he is not a • 
Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
ship with the Bureau, In additian, a statement should be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant., and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters. 
f. One of the required copies of the le·l;ter requesting authority to· use 
a subject as a confidential source should consist only of the firs·(; 
page of the letter. If the request is approved at the Bureau~ a 
stamped notation will be placed on the single-page copy and it will 
be returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to· 
consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subject is 
sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background information 
obtained. 
Security confidential sources - certification of stability and payments 
a. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitte~ to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to secur·ity confidential 
sources. See 107N, 3b, for form of lette~. • 
b. If the security source is not being paid on Bureau authorization and 
is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source must dictate 
a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification 
as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters. 
Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such action$ might be 
misconstrued. 
8. Discontinuance 
[ Adviss Bureau[of the date]when confidential source is discontinued, and 
the reasons therefor. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1574 
28 
4-13-64 
( 
\ 
