-23-
The point is that of frequent resort to. synechdoche -­
the mention of a part when the whole is to be under­
stood, or vice versa. Thus, we encounter repeated 
references to phrases such as "disposing·of Castro", 
which may be read in the narrow, literal sense of assas­
sinating him, when it is intended that it be read in 
the broader, figurative sense of dislodging the Castro 
regime.· Reversing the coin, we find people speaking 
vaguely of "doing something about Castro" when it is 
cleai that what they have specifically in mind is 
killing him. In a situation wherein those speaking 
may not have actually meant what they seemed to say or 
may not have said what they actually meant, they should 
not be surprised if their oral shorthand is interpreted 
differently than.was intended. 
Differing perceptions between superiors and their sub-
ordinates were graphically illustrated in the Castro context.* 
McCone, in a memorandum dated April 14, 1967, reflected as 
follows: 
Through the years the Cuban problem was discussed in 
terms such as "dispose of Castro", "remove Castro", 
"knock off Castro", etc., and this meant the overthrow 
of the Communist government in Cuba and the replacing 
of it with a democratic regime. Terms such as the 
above appear in many working papers, memoranda for the 
record, etc. , and,' as stated, all refer to a chang.e in 
the Cuban government. 
·k "Senator Mathias: Let me draw an example from history. 
When Thomas A'Beckett was proving to be an annoyance, as 
Castro, the King said, 'who will rid me of this turbulent 
priest?'. He didn't say, 'go out and murder him'. He said, 
'who will rid ·me of this man',' and let it go at that. 
I 
"Mr. Helms: That is a warming reference to the problem. 
"Senator Mathias: You feel that spans the.generations 
and the centuries? 
"Mr. Helms: I think it doei, sir. 
"Senator Hathias: And that is typical of the kind of 
thing which might be said, which might be taken by the 
NW .5095.5 Docid: 32423.539 Page 533 
