NW 38326 
.. 
• ;,,q /\ . ·, 
..:x,JGM~I., 
lobby, the Agents noticed that the JAFFEE$ were very observant of 
persons i11 the lobby. In view of the late hour, .few pe_ople -were in 
the lobby., 
At 12:32 .A.,,M., SA GRUENTZEL observed Mr. and Mrs. JAFF'li'....E 
come out of the Connecticut Avenue exit of the hotel and, after loold.ng 
up and down Connecticut Avenue, walk south on Connecticut Avenue to 
L Street$' No W. At this time, SA ACHENBACH joined the foot surveilla.llce 
of Agent GRUENTZEL. They observed the JAFFEES crossing Con..TJ.e·cticut 
Avenue at L Street and disappear from view going w--est on L Street. 
Approximately two minutes later, -SA ACHENBACH observed Mr. a-nd Mrs. 
JAFFEE in a doorway located on the L Street side of a business establish­
ment at the intersection of L Street and Connecticut Avenue, N• w. 
He observed that they were looking intently through the plate glass 
·windows of the st.ore in the direction of the Mayflower Hotel. At this 
point, Agent ACHENBACH, who was standing on a streetcar platform at the 
corner of L Street and Connecticut Avenue, N. W • ., boarded a south-
bound streetcaro Mr. and Mrs. JAFF'El!: were next observed by SA~ 3™Y 
ID-~ GRUENTZEL running across L Street to the south- side and walking 
west on L S·tree·b to 18th Street. After reaching 18th Street, they re­
crossed to ihe north side of L Street and returned to the Mayflower 
Hotel via L Street and Con..YJ.ecticut AYenue, N. W. They entered the 
Mayflower Hotel at 12:42 A,M. Surveillance was discontinued at this _('-~_, ,)_ 
time upon receipt of infonnation from SA McGEARY to the effect that v J 
Mro and Mrso JAFFEE were possibly "newspaper people." 
After Mr. and Mrs. JAFFEE alighted from the taxi cab in 
:l:ront of the Mayflower Hotel, SA McGEJ\RY located and interviewed the 
• cab driver$ ROBERTS. DAVIS, at 17th and M Streets, N. W. DAVIS 
informed SA HcGEARY that immediately after picking up the couple at 
16th &. R Streets, N. w., they informed him that they were 11newspaper 
. people 11 and that they had spent the evening with a "couple of Russians" 
and that they probably would be followed. T'ne cab driver stated 
further that he asked the couple if he should try to 11lose them." 
Mrs. JAFFEE replied, 11Yes., if you can.n DAVIS also advised SA McGEARY 
that Mr. and Mrs. JAFFEE were attempting to obtain license numbers, 
but that he did not think they were successful. He stated that he 
himself had not been able- to detect any su.i;reillance. ltJ) 
• After Mrs. JAFFEE had purchased the cigaretts in the hotel 
and had departed with her husband, SA KENOYER asked the night manager 
at the hotel desk whether he was acquainted with the couple and whether 
they were registered at the hotel. The night manager replied that he 
did not lmow. 
.. 3 -
Page 159 
, 
I 
ttfJ) 
. l 
