-b')-
(h) Testimony of McNamara 
McNamara testified that, although he had no recollection of the question 
of a Castro assassination being raised at the August 10 meeting, he did 
express opposition to any assassination attempt or plan when he spoke with 
McCone several days after the August 10 meeting. (McNamara, p. 7,8). 
McNamara's testimony with respect to his conversation with McCone is dis­
cussed below with the testimony as to actions after the August 10 meeting. 
b. 'l'estimony as to Actions After the August 10, 1962 t-!eetir'.K 
(1) Testimony of McCone 
McCone testified that he called McNamara after he received Lansdale's 
.... 
August 13 Memorandum and, 
"insisted that that Memorandum be withdrawn 
because no decision was made on this subject, and 
since no decision was made, then Lansdale was 
quite ciut of order in tasking the Centr~l In­
telligence Agency to consider the matter.II'!:_/ 
(Footnote continued from the previous page.) 
"I didn't tell (the author of the magazine article) 
that it was definitely McNamara, that very possibly it 
was McNamara. He asked me about McNamara's role, and 
I said it very well could have been McNamara." 
(Goodwin, 7 /18, p. 33). 
If Goodwin's recollection was as uncertain as he swore it was in his 
testimony, it is difficult to understand how he could have spoken in the terms 
he testified he did to the author of the magazine article, particularly in 
view of Goodwin's statement that "it's not a light matter to perhaps destroy 
_ a man's career on the basis of a fifteen year old memory of a single sentence 
that he mi_g_ht have said at a meeting without substantial certainty in your 
own mind j_a.n.E_/ I do not have that." (Goodwin, pp. 34-35). 
'!:_/ McCone's 1967 Memorandum stated: 
"Immediately after the meeting, I called on Secretary McNamara 
personally and re-emphasized my position, in which he heartily 
agreed~ I did this because Operation Mongoose--an interdepartmental 
affair--was under the operational control of (the Defense Depart- "' 
ment) ... (McCone Ex. 4). •• 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 ·page 210 
\ 
