) 
) (~ 
SECTION 107. [IN'A-AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND co···DENTIAL SOURCES; 
(ANiJlll'OREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSE 0] 
107S-T 
b. If no pertinent derogatory information is developed, initial contact 
may be ma.de with prospective panel source to ascertain cooperative­
ness; however, in regard to individuals associated with educational 
institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning investi­
gations on campuses. 
c. Submit secure teletype (Nitel) to Bureau .requesting authority to use 
individual as a panel source and set out: 
(1) Results of background investigation and data as to date and 
place of birth, citizenship status if foreign born, residence 
and employment addresses 
(2) Details of expected area of activity of individual as panel 
source and results of any interviews conducted with him 
(3) Statement-to effect subject is being considered panel source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confi­
dential nature of his relationship with Bureau. Also, state­
ment should be made that you will be alert to be certain sub­
ject is not a plant and, if connected with labor union or 
educational institution, he will be advised of Bureau policy 
on such matters. 
(4) One copy of letter should consist only of first page. If 
approved at Bureau, stamped notation indicating Bureau approval 
will be placed on single-page copy and it will be returned to 
field. 
3. Administrative handling 
a. Follow same procedure in handling, processing, and reporting data and 
material furnished ?Y panel sources as afforded security informants. 
b. Handle payments for legitimate expenses incurred and services rendered 
in same manner as security informants. Gifts should not be given to 
panel sources. 
c. Open 134 file when active investigation of prospective panel source 
initiated. Close file administratively if panelist is not contacted 
regularly. Note contacts with p.3.·nelists in their respective files. 
d. Only Agents designated in particular case should contact panelists. 
e. Every six months submit FD-4O1 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments to panel source. If source not paid on Bureau authorization, 
Agent handling prepare memorandum to SAC for file containing certi­
fication as to stability and reliability. 
f. A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is taken 
to develop an individual as a panel source. Use abbrevtation "PS" 
before. symbol number, e.g., PS NY OO0-S. 
g. Designate, where practicable, coordinating Agent to maintain current 
roster of panel sources and scheduled organization activities, who 
will notify Agents handling individual panelists of organizational 
functions to be covered. Coordinating Agent should receive notice of 
coming events from Agents handling organizations, informants, and 
publications. 
h. Advise Bureau of date panel source is discontinued and reasons. 
( T. [DELETED] 
23 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1192 
