13-00000 
protects too many documents by classifying them as SECRET and TOP SECRET.■
1 
In other words, concern about excessive government secrecy is not simply·the 
province of aspecial interesr groups; it is shared throughout the general public. 
Reducing government secrecy truly is a matter of apubiic interest." 
Much of this public concern is latent and diffuse, but it crystallizes time and 
again around specifjc is.sues- the JFK assassination, POW/MIAs in Southeast Asia, 
UFOs, Nazi war crimes, human rights violations in Latin America, and so forth. 
2. Ex~essiye·class_i~cation is a fact. But independent review can overcome it. 
Even if the majority of Americans believe that goyernment secrecy is excessive, 
-they could conceivably be mistaken. But they-are not mistaken. It is demonstrably true 
that government agencies classify too much and fail -to declassify information that no 
longer warrants protection. 
This problem is illustrated with particular clarity by the fact that agency refusals 
to declassify recor9s are frequently overturned- within the executive branch itself- by 
the lnteragency Security Classification Appeals Panel (ISCAP), which receives appeals 
from members of the public for documents that agencies have refused to declassify 
Deputy Assistant Attorney General Roslyn A Mazer, who was appointed by 
President Clinton to chair the ISCAP, reported recently on the latest activities of her 
Panel, which includes representatives of the Departments of Justice, State, Defense, 
CIA, NSC and the National ,Archives: 
We have taken final votes on appeals for declassification of more than 70 
documents on a wide variety of subjects. Of these, we have voted to declassify­
more than 70 percent of them in their entirety, while ·declassifying significant 
segments of most of the remainder. This is significant in my view because, in 
each instance, we are voting to overturn an agency's decision reached at its 
highest level of appeal .... 2 
1Not inconsistently, a majority of those surveyed also favor "a high level of 
secrecy" for technology with military applications. "Public Attitudes Towards Security 
and Counter-Espionage Matters in 1994 and 1996"by Tom W. Smith, National Opinion 
Research Center, prepared for the Department of Defense Personnel Security 
Research Center, November 1996. <http://www.fas;orglsgplothergovlperssur2. html>. 
2Remarks by Roslyn A. Mazer, Chair, lnteragency Security Classification 
Appeals Panel, before the DoD Historical Records Declassification Advisory Panel, 
March 6, 1998, emphasis added. <http://www.fas.org1sgpladvisoryliscap0398. html>. 
2 
