NW 
·• 
The Third Agency Rule 
1. As early as November 1953, the third agency rule w.as 
included in Executive Order 10501, which has now been revoked. 
Section 7(c) prohibited the dissemination_ of "classified defense 
information originating in another Department or agency" to an 
agency ir outside the receiving Pepartrhent or agency without the 
consent of the originatin,g Department or agency 11 • The only excep­
tion to this rule is that dissemination may be mad~ un9-er the authority ; -~~~ . 
of Section 102 of the National Security Act. This section autp..orizes ··· 
the Director of Central Intelligence "to correlate and evaluate intelli- .,._ 
gence relating to the national security, and provide fo3: the appropriate. 
dissemination of such intelligence within the Government using, where 
appropriate, existing agencies and facilities 11 • 
2 .. Historically, the responsibility of the DCI to disseminate 
intelligence has referred to 11finished intelligence 11• This product is 
the end result of contributions from members of the Intelligence Commu­
nity. Therefore, in this situation the finished product is a;,! homogenous 
product and therefore the approval for further dissemination beyond the 
receiving agency must come from the Central _In~ell!gence Agency. 
3. Executive Order 10501 was superseded by Executive Order • ~ 
11652 which became effective· 1 June 1972. This Executive order did not 
specifically .cover the third agency rule. However. it does provide the 
following cont-.cols: Sec .. 9. Special Departmental Arrangements. The 
originati.~g Department or other appropriate authority may impose, in 
conformity with the provisions of this order. special requirements with 
respect to access, distribution and protection of classified information 
and material, including those which presently relate to communications 
intelligence, intelligence sources and methods and cryp_tography. 
4. In anticipation of the implementation of Executive Order 
11652; a directive was issued on May 17, 1972 entitled 11National· Security 
Council Directive Governing the Classification, Downgrading. Declassi­
fication and Safeguarding of National Security lnformation" . This 
~'.directive does not contain the term nthird age4cy rule 11.but does have 
four subsections which relate to procedures which are similar to \Vhat 
historically had been called the third agency rule. These sections are: 
A. (2) Determination of Need-to-Kno\v. In addition to a 
security clearance, a person must have a need for access 
to the particular classified information or material sought 
in connection with the performance of his official duties or 
168 
