1J-00000 
- 2 -
-~·-· _,.,·-~_,,--:. ·., 9~:~•--•--.·.·,---,:··-·:•.·· .. , .. -:o .. c.· .. .::~---··..c:···· 
( Mr. Johnson said that the Secretary of State does not believe 
that'-~here is any foreign policy reason for mounting the operation 
at this time, and in fact the Secretary and other high officials in 
the Department feel that from a policy point of view it would be 
inadvisable now. 
The Group then agreed that the resumption of low-level coverage 
would not be recrnmnended at this time, but that it would be kept 
under weekly review;] 
2. _(:Reconnaissance, Indonesia 1 ~ 
The Group noted the intelligence justification for this proposal 
and the political objections to it, and the Chairman agreed• to discuss 
it with higher authority as an example of a situation where clear-cut 
differences of interest exist. He said that if there was any doubt 
from that quarter he.would have all the principals participate in 
further discussion with higher authority. (The proposal was later 
disa.f proved by higher authority. >J 
3. (!eripheral Reconnaissance Operations 
a. Colonel Steakley gave the following brief reports on a 
number of peripheral missions: 
(1) The ELINT coverage of-the,- Sea of Okhotsk produced good 
results. He said that this area is now so well covered with 
radars that consideration should probably be given as to whether 
the rules requiring an abort in case of an AI lock-on should be 
relaxed. 
(2) The AMOS mission, directed against SA-J's in the 
Baltic, did not result in any ELINT take from the radars 
associated with the SA-J's. He said that some question now 
arises as to whether these weapons are in fact. SA-3 
1 
s or 
perhaps a later generation of the SA-2. 
(3) A DESOTO destroyer mission off the Soviet Maritime_ 
Provinces resulted in Soviet instructions to shut down their 
radars when the ship approached. 
b. The Group approved four missions (UNA, DANIEL, FLOYD and 
GF.ORGE) using new ASD-1 equipment. This includes two in the Baltic :! 
area, one in the Black Sea, and one flying from England to the Black 
Sea:J 
