13-00000 
reporting device to alert four pre-selected phone 
numbers for help, 
Software 
Protection of data files, whether in the Corm of 
punch cards, magnetic tapes, or discs, is the key 
element in any computer facility. 
Some specific examples of software security con­
trol measures are audit trails, access regulations, 
strong supervision of computer operators, the use 
and control of programs utilizing program documen­
tation methods, the use of a Jog for all significant 
events (such as user identification, file use and 
attempts of unauthorized use), regulations to pre­
vent unauthorized personnel Crom browsing through 
the files, and the use oC a semi-automatic data in­
ventory cont!ol system. 
~nnel 
Physical control as to who is allowed near the 
computer and the files is advisable. Note that this 
does not .mean "employees only"; it implies a careful 
screening of employees, repairmen, and visitors to 
determine which of them should be allowed this prox­
imity to the system. Intimately involved with time­
sharing installations are three types of personnel: 
operators, programmers, and maintenance engineers. 
According to Uennis Van Tassel, mathematician and 
bead programmer at San Jose State College, all oper­
ators must understand that there exists a protection 
philosophy: IC personnel are expected to help en­
force and to comply with this protection philosophy, 
it must be clearly defined and specified. 
It is advisable to use the following provisions 
for personnel control: control oC logs and monitor, 
division of responsibilities, rotation of duties, 
adequate supervision to reduce the risk of losses 
caused by accident or error, careful handling of 
data files, cleanliness regulations, control access 
to private files, and appropriate instruction in 
case of disasters. 
Terminals 
Some of the most common pitfalls encountered 
when using terminals are frequent communication in­
terruptions, risk of communication interception, 
difCicult access control, and noisy lines. 
Among the greatest disadvantages of time-sharing 
services are those in connection with the communi­
cation lines which link the terminals to the central 
processing unit. Telephone lines are designed for 
voice communication rather than data communication, 
and the results have been that such lines are too 
noisy and have too many interruptions for appropri­
ate handling of data communication. 
There have been some recent developments in the 
improvement of data transmissions. Bell System has 
developed its Digital Data Service (DDS), a data 
transmission system which has been introduced early 
this year in five cities (New York, Boston, Phila­
delphia, Washington, and Chicago); and, by the end 
of 1974, twenty-four cities are expected to have it. 
Bell further plans to· provide cont i n11ous monitoring 
oC their DDS channels. When errors of transmission 
are detected, DDS will notify the customer. Deci­
sion on retransmission will be the customer's re­
sponsibility. Another development in data communi­
cation is DIN (data under voice). By late 1973 this 
technique will be in service between New York and 
Chicago; consequently, communication problems should 
become virtually nonexistent within the near future, 
and this system will become even more popular. 
Telephone lines are vulnerahle to three types of 
security problems: wire tapping, piggyback, and 
user's sign-off signal cancellation. These common 
threats may be avoided by the use of a privacy 
transformation method (also called scramblers or 
tryptographic techniques). This is a non-singular 
(reversible) operation which conceals the original 
message either by the substitution of new characters, 
rearrangement of the characters, or by the adding of 
strings of digits to the original message. 
Some new techniques for encrypting data have 
evolved, such as high speed transmission and signal 
scrambling. In spite of all of these new tech­
niques, it is still possible to intercept and tap 
the information. According to Tuckerman, unauthor­
ized users (intruders) who possess only limited ma­
terial and information with which to work, can read­
ily extract the original text of enciphered mes­
sages by making use of the speed, capacity, and 
computationa 1 abilities of the computer .. 
The greater the efficiency .of the privacy trans­
formation, the more difficult it becomes for unauth­
orized copying of files. 
Access Control 
Access to the system throughout the communication 
lines should be controlled by the central processing 
unit and by the user's own procedures. This is pos­
sible by cryptographic and scramble techniques, per­
sonnel regulations, user identification, appropriate 
terminal location, or by ciphering and deciphering 
hardware. 
Computer software packages have been written to 
cipher data transmissions. Ciphering software is 
an attractive technique because it can be done auto­
matically by the program which creates the data and 
at a very low cost. Only programs using the match­
ing deciphering technique are able to use this data. 
These special hardware cipher devices can be located 
at the terminal·and at the computer to protect 
transmitted data, 
Scramblers or voice privacy devices are currently 
being used by people who readily acknowledge the in­
security of transmitted information, Scramblers are 
used by large corporations such as the oil industry 
as well as by union representatives during contract 
negotiation time. (Scramble phones are currently a 
20 to 30 million-dollar business, excluding law en­
forcement and military purchases). Scramble devices 
are now being built for time-sharing operations. 
These devices offer protection similar to encryption. 
Scramblers convert data into something resembling 
channel noise or a malfunctioning circuit. 
Other features for terminal~ include print in­
hibit, security keylock, operator identification 
card reader, and the use of a terminal identifier. 
With print inhibit the terminal operator can enter 
data, such as security passwords, without its being 
physically displayed, A physical keylock can be at­
tached to the terminal which will not. aUow the 
entry of data. The operator identification card 
reader reads magnetically encoded information on a 
magnetic strip card. The card can be used to supply 
the user's password and/or name, 
Direct access device security features include 
file mask, volume detection, and write-exhibit 
switch. The file mask controls or allows· read-only 
~ 
