13-00000 
shortly after the indictments in the stock fraud 
~ase in' question (and ten months before Klein­
dienst'& testimony on the bribe). Those reports 
quoted "sources at the U.S. Attorney's office in New 
York" and indicated that after the meeting between 
Kleindienst and Fong's aide, "Kleindienst immedi­
ately contacted Justice's Criminal Division [then 
headed by Will Wilson) and ... an FBI agent was as­
signed to infiltrate the group of alleged conspira­
tors". 
Do we now believe Kleindienst's story that he 
"didn't realize" he had been offered a bribe, or 
do we believe the U.S. Attorney's office in New 
York? Did Will Wilson and the Justice Department 
hold off a week while Kleindienst •~ade up his 
mind" that he had been offered a bribe, or was the 
decision whether or not to take it? And did Hoover 
and the FBI somehow interfere? , . 
~aps the answer comes in the final outcome of. 
thei!tctual prosecution involved. The defendants in 
the stock-fraud case included Meyer Lansky's son-in­
law, a former director of the Bank of Miami Beach 
and Johnny Dio, a notorious racketeer long associ­
ated with Jimmy Hoffa. They were acquitted, while 
the messengers who offered the bribe were convicted. 
One wonders if that $100,000 did not find its way 
into the Republican secret treasury after all. 
The Tip of the Iceberg 
~he organized criminal relies on physical terror 
and psychological intimidation, on economic re­
taliation and political bribery, on citizen's in­
difference and government acquiescence. He cor­
rupts our governing institutions and subverts our 
democratic processes." 
- Richard Nixon, April 24, 1969 
Someone should tell President Nixon that resist­
ing the power of organized crime demands, above all, 
a President with a clean slate. 
Nixon's life is like a complex jigsaw puzzle, the 
pieces of which have been shuffled so as to defy 
complete reconstruction. Some of the crucial pieces 
have been removed, so a full picture cannot be 
achieved. It is no accident that no other politi­
cian has been so much written about, yet so little 
understood. 
Indeed, much has been made of the "enigma" of 
Richard Nixon, his tight-lipped bearing in relation 
to his personal life, his unwillingness to divulge 
what's really on his mind. 
But maybe the answer to the enigma lies in his 
old poker-playing instincts, in the unfailing abil­
ity to keep quiet when he's sitting on cards best 
hidden from the table. 
For there is one indisputable fact about Richard 
Nixon's career - his ascendancy to the pinnacle of 
American power has required twenty-five years of 
care and feeding by some very wealthy and very re­
actionary men, and an extraordinary number of them 
have maintained connections with the world of or-
ganized crime. • 
During Nixon's years in office the underworld em­
pire in the United States has prosper~d almost unre­
stricted by the Federal government. From its base 
in the gigantic resources of heroin traffic, gamb­
ling, prostitution, "protection," and a host of 
~ther enterprises of violence against society, or­
ganized crime has moved like a bulldozer into the 
world of legal, "respectable" business. 
Every link between Richard Nixon and organized 
crime, however marginal, is of significance, if for 
no other reason because he is President. And there 
are people all over America, from government intel­
ligence agents to hotel waiters, who have Nixon 
stories to tell. He covers his tracks well, but not 
well enough. 
The full extent of Nixon's involvement with or­
ganized crime is just beginning to surface. The 
evidence in this article is merely the top of a 
dirty iceberg that will slowly become visible over 
-the coming years. 
The milieu in which he has traveled for three 
decades, and in which so many of his friends, as­
sociates, and appointees have been related to the 
mob, throw a long and permanent shadow over every­
thing Ri~hard Nixon the "public servant" has ever 
said, and over everything his political life has 
ever meant. 
For in light of his career, both past and pres­
ent, Richard M. Nixon seems to be the factual em­
bodiment of Ralph Salerno's prediction that organ­
ized crime would someday put its own man in the 
White House. D 
The information in this article was gathered 
during a six-month investigation carried out in 
ma·ny cities, primarily Miami, New York, Washington, 
D.C., Los Angeles, San Diego, Las Vegas, Dallas, 
Austin, Galveston, Tallahassee, and San Francisco. 
Sources included interviews with over a hundred 
people; court documents (including deeds, mortgages, 
etc.); research in the National Archives, Washing­
ton, D.C.; organized crime intelligence files (both 
private and government); and newspaper clippings. 
Unsettling, Disturbing, Critical .. ·: 
Computers and Automation, established 1951 and 
therefore the oldest magazine in the fie Id of com­
puters ~nd data processing, believes that the pro­
fe~sion o! information engineer includes not only 
competence in handling information using computers 
and other means, but also a broad responsibility, 
in·a professional and engineering sense, for: 
- The reliability and social significance of 
pertinent input data; 
- The social value and truth of the output 
results. 
In the same way, a bridge engineer takes a pro­
fessional responsibility for the reliability anJ 
significance of the data he uses, and the safety 
and efficiency of the bridge he builds, for human 
beings to risk their lives on. 
Accordingly, Computers and Automation publishes 
from time to time articles and other information 
related to socially useful inpu~ and output of data_ 
systems in a broad sense, To this end we seek to 
publish what is unsettling, disturbing, critical 
- but productive of thought and an improved and 
safer "house" for all humanity, an earth in which 
our children and later generations may have a fu-
ture, instead of facing extinction. , 
The professional information engineer needs to 
relate his engineering to the most important and 
most serious problems in the world today: war, 
nuclear weapons, pollution, the population explo-
sion, and many more. • 
