( 
( 
( 
PART II 6K 
SECT-6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND 1&Ic C~NTACTS 
Included in the index may be individuals in Government, business, o·r 
industry. Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information. Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alpha­
betically in the subdivi'sions; and alphabetically by AEA f.acility, or 
by type of information. 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. 11.n index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having ·approved office·space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of ·their homes when,­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a locked, steel file cabinet. Cards shall qe 
kept as in the field office. The cards shall pertain only to the 
territory covered; under sucih circumstances there shall be no duplicate 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete. 
I~dex sources of information in the general office index; do not remove­
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information index. 
2. Files 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the p~eparation of sources 
of information. 
3 .. Security and racial sources of information 
[ Every six months a letter of justification[(FD-401)]should be submitted 
to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and racial 
L 
[ sources of in~ormation. [Follow instructions set out in]section 13OG, item 
2b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions. If the security or racial 
source of information is not being paid on Bureau authorization and is 
being used regularly, the Agent handling the source of information must 
4. 
L. SAC 
1. 
2. 
3. 
dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing ·foE! same certifi­
cation as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters .. 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such actions might be mis­
construed. 
CONTACTS 
SAC contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, can 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assistance to the FBI upon the request of the SAC. 
A complete file review must be made and an FD-9 submitted on each contact 
(file review on spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary ·unless 
special circumstances prevail). • • . 
SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Request this approval by 
letter to the Bureau captioned " ___ ___,,,,., SAC Contact. 11 Mark the letter 
for the attention of the Crime Records Division. Use the following sqb­
headings in the order given: 
a. Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Results of Identification Division check 
f. Derogatory information 
g. Recommendation of SAC 
Submit an original and two copies, but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication. If the SAC contact is 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved.an~ returned 
to the 'field. If the contact is not approved, a letter is ~o be submitted 
to the field stating why the individual cannot be used as an SAC contact. 
7 
7-28-69 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1015 
