[107P - Q. SECT I ON -107. f CURI TY nr FORM.ANTS [ .AND CON FID .L SOURCES ] 
P. SIGNING OF LOYALTY OATHS, AFFIDAVITS, AHD STATEMENTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security inform~.nts away from 
situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting Agent fully 
advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a 
for.rn. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4.· The Bu~eau will consider ~s a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship Ylith the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant I s a.cti vity;. however, such s i tua.tions 
must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. • 
5. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to be 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed action, 
6. In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
O.. DISCON"rINU.l!!D INFOR11ANTS 
1. When the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card 
[ uc:.>.ncelled, 11 Destroy the symbol card, Never destroy the name card, 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symbol· number 'in the symbol 
number index. The symbol number shall 110t be subsequently reassigned 
to another informant. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued 
potential security informant or confidential source to whom a symbol 
number· was once assigned later is reactivailed., remove his name card from 
the symbol number index, mark it reactivated with appropriate date, note 
\hereon type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential security informant or confidential source is disco·n­
tinued and a per1;1anent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4; kdvise the Bureau when a potential informant or informant is discontinued 
~nd the reason therefor. 
-5. Advise the Bureau as to whether or not _the informant is willing to t~stify 
in open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all _cases of securi·i;y of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
( compliance with section[69F, volume III, of this manual.] 
6. Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or surnmt~ries of 
corx-espond.ence between the Bureau and the field relating tc the Dcpart­
ment 1s interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available as a witness are contained therein. In those cases in which it 
is evident the Department has indicated a desire to consider the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau in each such 
substantive case, except in those cases in whioh. it is ob-v-iou.s the statu.te 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exceptioµ 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the Bureau, 
7 • .A statement shall also be made to the effect'that the measures to con­
trol informants, set out in 8 below, have been considered and recomn1enda­
tions shall be made when it appears that such a.re warranted, 
a. When the services of an informant are discontinued, maintain close con­
tact ,"Ti th him so that the informant will look to .the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Bureau's 
best interests.~ When an i nforrnant is dis continued, determine whether 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newspaper article, or other­
wise publicizing his activity, If so, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than making other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1450 
24 
2-12-60 
) 
i I I I 
I 
I i l 
! 
f 
' it, \{ 
\i ' i 
' 
l l 
! 
' i 
i 
I l ' ! 
I 
l 
! ! 
l l t 
' •I 
I 
t i 
I I . 
I I ! i 
j 
i 
l 
I 
l I 
• I 
