6L 
r, 
' t 
j NW38321 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
SACs must be alert in reco~mending SAC contacts that they are not ~re­
posing individuals w:'.lo because of business connections or· perso·:n:al 
activities or close association with other persons will be involved in 
unfavorable publicity or become the subject of adverse investigative 
activity, or who will capitalize on their friendly association with 
the S_i\.C, 
4. Excep·t where a suitable file is already in existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 ~s to be opened on each contact. 
5. A three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained in an SAC 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the SAC. Each card is to 
contain: 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telephone numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any comments which, would be helpful in handling the individual 
e. Date of first contact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
(Show in the lower left corner on the front of the card.) 
f. Dates of contacts by the SAC ( t.o be entered on the reverse side of 
the ca.rd in longhand). Contacts more frequent than quarterly· should 
not be listed. 
g. Any necessary descriptive data 
6, l!]ach contact is to be inde:x:e·d in the general indices. The card is to 
show the name of the individual, date of prep a.ration, and the notation, 
"See SAC. 11 , 
7. SAC contacts located in headquarters city must be contacted at least three 
times each year; those located in areas regularly covered by road trips 
out of headquarters city or located in resident agencies muijt be contacted 
at least two times each year. , 
( 
8. Advise· Bureau immediately when a contact is discontinued UACB. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city located within another 
field division, a copy of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
should be designated for that field division. Also advise field division ( 
of background information re contact. ' 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
Advise Bureau promptly of changes or' addresses or status of SAC contacts. 
Each office must submit a complete roster of SAC contacts to reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and Nqvember each year. If there are 
any changes in address, employment, or other p.ertinent data, such informa­
tion should be set forth. If there is no change in status, so state. 
From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more 11FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indication that such 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay. 
Immediately upon assuming the duties of SAC, such SAC should visit all 
persons listed as SAC contacts and in addition leading officials iooated 
in 'the field division. 
Page 206 
8 
12-29-67 
