87}] 
...._NW 38321 
(.2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
(8) 
3~~.·1:rou 87. SECURITY IIiVESTIGATIC'" -, 
i i 
Invor.tier:·•s should be handled mo:it dis~·tly by experienced 
-Ar{ent s. 
Advise Dur~au promptly under cnption "Cocii~Cil (name of • 
orga1d.¼ation)" when one of tb,· fol] ow:i.n£{ exi :;ts and include 
your r!:cornmendo.tion for in sti L Jting an invc stigation: 
(a) Tho Cormauni st Prtrty has specific?.lly in::tructecl its 
members to infiltrate the organi¼ation. 
(b) ·communist Party members have infiltra:ted tho organiz8,tion in. 
When 
HJ 
sufficient strength to intluonce or control the organization. 
advicing Bureau, include data 6oncerning following items:. 
Uame and ac1:lross of orga1l'i.zation 
Extent of communist infiltration 
Identities o:f Communist Party members and positions held 
in ort;anize:l;ion 
(d) .Informant coverage ~fforded ornanization 
Set forth positions held by :i.nfo•rm2.nts and whet:,.,-:-r informants 
·are members or merely- reporting on oreanize,tio,,, . 
(e) Recommendation whether additional investigation :s ~eemed 
wa;cran·ted 
·Above instructions apply to loca1 chapters or affiliates~ as wall 
. -as the national organization. Break down information required • 
under items (c) and (d) above by local chapters where such exist. 
No informant or source should be instructed by tho FBI to 
join or attend meetings. If Communist Party asks the ;1-nforma.nt 
tp do so, ho should, of course, comply. 
No member of the organization not already an established. 
sou~ce should be contacted regarding the organization. This 
does not preclude pretext interviews where advisable.. 
Data concerning following topics should. ba fully .a,evel.oped and 
re'() orted on: 
(aJ Basis for investigation and fact that our investigation 
is directed solely toward establishing extent of 
Communist Party infiltration, or that organizatior. 
specific target for infiltration, and that Bureau 
not investigating legitimate activities of organiz 
Address of organization 
Brief characterization 6f organization, including total 
membership 
Principal officers of organization 
Commnnist Party ·program to infiltrate this organizati"on· 
and influence its policy • 
(f) Results_ of this program, including-Communist .Party 
affiliations of officers and members 
.~aption of all correspondence sh6uld contain t4e phrase . 
"Communist Infiltration of" preceding -the name of the .organiza­
tion. 
In the event infiltration of the organizatio~ reaches such a 
proportion that its activities are dominated and oontro_;Ued 
by the Communist Party, submit your recom.'llenda:t;ion to the 
Bureau regarding ch?.nging the investigation from communist 
infiltration to that of a comm~nist front. 
84 
10-13-66 
( 
