NW 
Chief of Pollce JACK ZIEGLER, Chicago Heights, 
:111 inois PD advised on December. 5, 1969, approximately . > 
• 200 black youths disrupted morning classes at Bloom ••• 
Township High School resulting in the dismissal of school 
for the day. The y-0uths indicated the disruption was 
caused because of mamo·rial services for HAMPTON. The high 
school is 25 per ~ent Negro. No arrests_or =injuries 
were reported .. 
On December 5, ·i969, • a Bureau· Agent: of the . 
•• FBI -advised that at approximately 2 :15 PM about 75 North-··· 
western University (NW) students led by members of SDS . • . . 
.from NW conducted a demonstration in Downtown.Evanston., •. ·.-·.:::~---.,<':-·· 
Illinois, protesting the death of HAMPTON. During the • • • 
demonstration, Evanston police officers attempted to keep 
the demonstrators on the sidewalk which resulted in some 
-of the demon~tratora resisting the police. Several 
demonstrators_ commenced shoving Lieutenant. TOM JOYCE , 
o! the Evanston PD. Several blows were struck, however, 
no injuries were .. suffered by Lieutenant·JOYCE and the·· 
·demonstrators. 
This incident culminated in the arrest of four 
demonstrators who ware charged •with disorderly conduct .. 
Following the arrest, the demonstrators moved their 
-demonstration to the Ev.an.a ton PD to protea t the- .. · 
arrest of their group~ 
During the demonstration at tha Evanston PD 
-the number of demonatrators·rose_to approximately 100. 
The d~monstrators left the.PD at approximately 3:45 PM 
and.proceeded again to the business district and 
• attempted to remove an American flag from the downtown. 
flagpole. The demrinstratora were stopped by citizens._-
• A fight res·ul ted and a ix more demonstrators were arrested 
.•. and their charges ranged from aggravated battery,· 
disorderly conduct to res is ting arrest. ·. All those 
arrested were.either NW or Kendall College students.· 
Following the later arrests a group of , • • 
.. approximately 40 NW students returned to tha- PD,to make: 
bond Tor those arrested.· The crowd dispersed at 5:15 PM. 
without further .incident or arrests being made. 
21 
