l07T-U 
4. 
5. 
SECTION 1 • SECURITY INFORV.u\.NTS AND CON] .• NTI.A.L SOURCES • 
b. Pamphlets, brochures, etc., prepared by private company for distribu­
·tion or sale to public. (This does not include highly ·technical 
pa_mphlots, even if unclassified, which are prepared for limited use· (_· 
a.nd not intended for release to public.) 
Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be retained by office of origin of any documents or· 
material related to national defense which is passed. 
b. Such material should be apuropriately identified by double agent. 
·Bureau .A.gents should not place identifying data on such material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in connection with its passage. 
c. Similar action should be taken regarding material which is nassed which 
is considered evidentiary although not clearly related to nitiopal defense. 
d. It is not necessary to retain copies of buildup material obviously not 
evidentiary in nature where copies can be obtained at later date from 
Government agency or private concern having custody. 
Handling money and property received by double agents 
a. Double agents must turn over t~ Bureau any money or pr·o·perty received 
from thei:r principals •in connection with double agent intelligence 
operation. This should be made clear to double agent at inception 
of operation (consider obtaining signed statement to·this effect}. 
Exceptions must be specifically approved by Bureau. Entirely separate 
arrangements must be made for payments to double agents for services 
rendered to Bureau. 
b. Any money or property received by double agent from his principal 
represents possible evidence and double agent should execute state­
ment describing money received by type of currency, denomination~ 
series of issue, and serial number and appropriately describing any 
other property received. Statement should be signed by double agent's 
code name. 
o. Money or property received from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
d, Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from double agents 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of r~freshing 1,· 
recollection in event testimony is later necessary. • 
U. UTILIZATION OF INFORMANTS AND SOURCES AT INSTITUTIONS OF LEARNING 
1. Use of students 
a. Students under age of 18 years are not to be developed as security 
informants, potential security informants, or other types of security 
sources in other than highly unusual circumstances. UQder such 
circumstances, furnish complete justification to Bureau. 
b. Upon initial contact with prospective student informant or source~ 
individual should be tactfully requested to execute a brief signeJ wri~­
ten statement for field file setting forth that this individual has 
voluntarily come forw~rd to furnish information to FBI because of 
his concern over individuals or groups that may be inimical to 
interests of U.S. Government and that he understands FBI has no 
interest in legitimate institution or campus activities. 
[ 2. [Deleted] 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1195 
24 
3-13-72 
' 
I . ! 
I 
