14-00000 
L1A ~PhLlAL LULLbL 11Ul'\l~ 
RELEASE IN FULL 
2000 
Assassination Review Board 
Second Public Meeting, 12 July 1994 
Room 105, NARA 
Official Attendees: Members of the Board, Steve Tilly, NARA. 
Public: 25/30 in attendance including four from FBI (Terry 
& Grant), Lesar, and Newman. Also one network 
(ABC?) rep. 
Purpose: Transact official business, briefing form Tilly on 
recent releases; discuss future board activities 
Selected items of HRG Interest: 
I spoke with Jack after the meeting. Ex. Director MARWELL 
will be on board 8 Augusts; they expect to be in new offices 
by 15 August and have a core staff in September. Jack said 
(after meeting) he would like to meet us last part of 
August/early September. 
Tilly said that the CIA would be releaseing 70,000 pages 
later this summer (he ask me before the meeting if July was 
still a good date - - I said "no") . He also mentioned the 
20,000 pages of HSCA material in our files that we would be 
reviewing this summer. 
J 
FBI received praise from the board; not much discussion of 
CIA. DOD agencies are now the "bad boys 11 • Hall ask several 
pointed questions about the "small" DOD releases then Newman 
blasted NSA and DIA during the question period. 
Items/Issues addressed by the Board during the meeting: 
Announced appointment of Executive Director David G. MARWELL 
(see bio sheet). Will be on board 8 August. 
Passed resolution extending the Board to October 1995 
MOA signed with the White House - funds through Sept. 1994 
Discussed status of items before Congress (extending the 
Board t"o October 1996 and funding). Funds included in House 
version of appropriation bill/deleted from Senate. They 
-- ~-- assume that the -funds -will- be restored in Conference; 
however, could be reduced which would impact on number of 
public meeting to held outside of Washington. 
Expects to move into new office space by mid-August and have 
a core staff in place in September. The bulk of the staff 
would come on board in October. • 
