,( 
( 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
o.. 
SECTION 
"\ . • :··J . 
10, SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFI.ITIAL S~URCES •• 107Q-R 
CORRECTIVE ACTION OU FALSE INFORMA.TION 
l. When it is determined that informant or ex-informant furnished false informa­
tion while informant, promptly advise Bure;:i.u of complete facts. 
2. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing 
informant in future, such as: "informant of known unreliability" or 
"informant who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information in 
the past." . . 
3. Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with review of 
all data furnished by individual and label information from him accordingly. 
4. All communications containing information from informant which have been 
disseminated to Bureau, other Bureau offices, and to outside ~gencies 
must be corr·ected. 
5. Identify cases individually by title and character, together with dates 
of communications containing information. 
6. If information was used in reports, corrective letters should l,ie crystal 
clear and refer to specific report, page number, and change to be made. 
7. ,!mended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by Bureau in 
accordance· with part II, section 4, of Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
Corrective action should be called to attention of other Bureau offices, 
outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
8. Instruct each 'interested Bureau office which has made further dissemina­
tion of information to follow instructions set ·forth above. 
9o Set up control file regarding this corrective action, and upon completion 
of same submit to Bureau final letter un.der informant's caption ·identifying 
each case by title, character; Bureau file, wherci known, and date of com­
munication. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files 
to see that necessary corrective action has been taken. 
10. If necessary, oth~r field offices vrhich have received information from 
informant should a.ls o be requested to submit summary letters showing wha-1:, 
corrections have been made. 
11. All information from informant must be correctly labeled and great c~re 
must be taken to see that this is done. 
12. Occasionally, ex-informant through his speech., writings·., or· actions raises 
a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to time he was informant.· It 
is not necessary to go back and change evaluation of information a.ttributed 
to that individual in absence of definite indication that informant furnished 
unreliable information while he was informant. 
13. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability and 
known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, section 5, 
M:i.nual of Rules and Regul~t~ons. 
R.. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assi~~.ment of symbols 
a. [A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is taken· 
to develop an individual as a confidential source.] 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation., 
symbol number, reason for assigning symbol number, and brief state­
ment concerning type of information furnished. 
c. Abbreviation "CS" may be used in intra-Bureau communications for 
confidential source; e.g., 11Richard Roe, CS." Communications re la.ting 
to es·pionage and foreign nationality matters should in addition 
have a character indicating country involved; e.g., IS - R. 
d. When permanent symbol has been assigned to confidential s~urce, 
abbreviation "CS" is to appear before symbol number; e.g., CS NY-000-S. 
e. Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from seri'es 
of numbers used for security, [extremist., ]and criminal informants. 
·Nw 38321 Docld:32989529. Page 1179 ·21 
9-13-71 
