CUBAN EXTREMISTS 
[conrinued from preceding page] 
includes representatives from Dade County and l\·fiami po­
lice, the U.S. Customs Service and the U.S. Bureau of 
.-\lcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. Although the Federal Bu­
reau of Investigation is not formally a part of this task force, 
its agents work closely ,vith it. 
With co-operation from Cuban refugees who are sick of 
the terrorist violence, law officers have arrested a number of 
suspects. Police also have learned enough about other sus­
pects so that their freedom to engage in new acts of violence 
can be limited e\'en though there is not enough evidence to 
prosecute them. 
A federal grand jury is interrogating witnesses who might 
have some knowledge of terror operations. 
Efforts of law-enforcement officials to deal with the terror­
ist groups face formidable handicaps, however. The terrorists 
seem to know what police are doing. Lieutenant Lyons 
relates that one suspect "identified one of my officers who 
had never met hiin before, called him by name and told him 
what-section he worked in and what his duties were." 
Terrorists are protected by a ,1,eb of old loyalties. l\fost of 
them worked at one time or another for the U.S. Govern• 
ment. l\fany have had several roles: members of the U.S. 
Army, CIA operatives and FBI informants. One refugee 
leader suggests that law-enforcement officials have not found 
the killers of Cubans "because they don't want to." 
A further complication is the heavy -infiltration of the 
terrorist movement by members of Castro's intelligence 
corps. They not only gather intelligence but sometimes act as 
agents provocateurs, instigating terrorist acts designed to 
discredit the refugees and influence American policy. 
The Cuban Prime l\hnister has 
0
surfaced" enough of such 
agents to reveal their pattern of operation. Early this year, 
for example, Manuel de Armas, a Cuban refugee who was 
named in Senate committee testimony as having been in­
volved in terrorist activities in :-.liami, showed up in Havana. 
In an April 22 broadcast by Radio Havana, De Armas said 
that he had supplied the explosives used in the killing of a 
man named Rolando l\fasferrer and that a CIA agent had 
provided him with the explosives. 
In a speech on October 15, Castro boasted of a double 
agent who Castro claimed had passed on coded instructions 
from the CIA. Said Castro: "From the very moment when he 
was recruited by the CIA and over,a period of 10 years, the 
supposed agent has kept the Cuban Government fully in­
formed of all his contacts with [the CIA] and of the equip• 
ment and instructions he has received." 
Castro blamed the CIA for the airliner bombing and other 
acts of violence: "Who else but the C[A ... can carry out 
these acts?" Castro asked. 
Secretary of State Henry Kissinger has flatly denied U.S. 
involvement in the airliner bombing. l Ie said: "I can state 
categorically that no official of the United States Govern­
ment, nobody paid by the American Government, nobody in 
contact with the American Government has hud anything to 
do with this crash of the airliner. We consider actions like this 
totally reprehensible." 
The CIA .declines to discuss Cuban refugee terrorism. 
Officials of other Government agencies say they seriously 
clonbt that the CIA, after all the .criticism it has received for 
some of'its earlier activities, is still involved in operations 
against the Castro regime. However, the agency is described 
as providing very little help in combatling the terrorist 
groups. "We have absolutely no contact with the CIA," says 
Lieutenant Lyons. ''I'd like to, but they don't talk to us." One 
reason for that attitude may be that laws bar the CIA from 
domestic law-enforcement activities. 
Other laws, or the luck of them, also complicate the fight 
against the terrorists. U.S. agencies cannot become involved 
in investigations of terrorism outside the United States unless 
the crime involves violations of neutrality laws making it 
illegal to conspire in this country to commit crimes abroad or 
to export arms without a license. , 
Although shocked by the October 6 airliner bombing, U.S. 
• officials reluctantly decided there was no authorization for 
the FBI to enter that case. 
With such handicaps as these, law-enforcement officials say 
they can look forward to only limited success against the 
terrorists. Any real solution to the problem must come from 
within the Cuban refugee community-and investigators 
state that the co-operation they get there does not extend to 
cases of violence committed outside the U.S. 
WHAT HAVE TERRORISTS GAINED? 
TERRORISTS' ARSENAL: 
PLANES TO CANNONS 
32 U.S NEWS & WORLD REPORT. Dec. 6. 1976 
