87D 
.( ,· 
• :•"- ,~~ l 
~./ ~. 
.. , ... 
NW38321 
(c} 
( d} 
( e) 
(f) 
( g) 
(h) 
(i) 
SEC ?N 87. S:!:Ct:RITY INVESTIGATil)N' 
Inf orm,on sug~esti ve of additional 1 Is and information 
of particular significance in showing subject's knowledge 
of and adherence to revolutionary aim3 of organization or 
organizations with which he is associated should be fully 
and carefully reported~ 
Each report i3 to include all information having any 
pertinency as to whether or not there is justification for 
secur:i.ty index card. This i~cludes pertinent information 
concerning background and subversive activities. 
When previous summary reports which have been prepared 
are not suitable for•disscmination because of disclosure 
of sources, information contained therein should be 
included in current sunt.'llary reports wi '.;h sources fully 
protected. Each office must be certain that all pertinent 
information has been incorporated in either a past or 
current dissemin;;.tive summary rep·ort. . 
Frequently information -will have been obtained[repor.ting] 
subject's presence at numerous meeti~gs of subversive 
or·ganizations over a period of years. In many instances 
these facts will have been reported by only one informant. 
In others, two or three informants will have repor·bed 
subject's attendance at meetings. The question of 
pertinency of all such items is dependent upon the weight 
of all of the evidence obtained·against tne subject. 
Such repetitious and cumulative items to be specifically 
set fortli in reports may be reduced in number to the point 
where they will be limited to a representative number of • 
such items. Each such item specifically set forth must be 
fully documented., 
The number of such items to be included in each instance 
will be dependent upon the preponderance of other 
evidence available for inclusion in the report which 
will lend weight to our case against the subject., 
Selection of such items with regard to period of time 
will be dependent upon all facts developed against 
subject. Selection should be based upon the objective 
of specifically reporting data sufficient to justify 
continued detention of each subject if apprehended. 
,. 
When selection of representative number of such items is 
made, they should be followed by a general statement 
summarizin1(any·other items furnished by. source. :Che 
summarizing statement shoul9- indicate that sourOe advised 
during a .specif.ied period of time thai; -~,1,ilrject also attended 
a. certain number of other meetings cl.uring a certain period. 
In the do·cumentation of a. summarizing statement set out 
the fi~e number and serial scope. 
76 
7-13-61 
Page 823 
