. .J. 
[107U SECTION 107. SECURITY INFOIU1.A.NTS[.AND CON~,IDEN'TIAL SOURCES] 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
• 4. [Four-month evalua,01~ ~f informants not paid on Bl.a·-~ 1uth~rity] 
If the informant is not being paid on ·Bureau authorization, a communi­
cation must be transmitted to the Bureau every four·months after the 
date of designation containing the same information set out above in 
subsection 3b except those items concerning payments. Recommendation 
of SPC regarding continuance of informant should also be set forth. 
(In espionage and foreign nationality cases comment is necessary regarding 
only those applicable items in subsection 3b.] 
5. Receipts . 
When payments are made to anyone for information or assistance on security 
matters, either on the SAC1 s authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obtained in every instance in which it is possible to do so. 
a. Receiptn should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce the receipts in evidence 
during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate to other 
documents or files. . 
b. • Receipts should clearly show: . • • 
l
ll Date on which pa:yment was made . 
. 2 Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis 
3 Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for s.ervices 
or expenses where these items are pertinent 
( 
5
4) Name of .Agent making payment 
( ) Signature of person receiving .the money 
c •. When transmitting receipts and -itemized statements of expenses to the 
Bureau, they should be_ stapled directly to the _blue slip, leaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contact with the Acco fastener p,unch. The staples should be 
placed in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on the 
receipt will not be mutilated and all informa+,ion on the receipt can 
be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip, Care must 
be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clearly show 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary material 
contained in Bufiles, 
6. Income tax returns 
a. Informants who receive compensation for their services to the Bureau 
should be advised that such compens·ation must be reported as income 
when filing an income tax return. 
b. Since all informants are considered independent contractors, the income 
they recd.Ye from the Bureau is self-employment income but, since the 
Bureau do es not consider their activity as the carrying o.n of a trade 
or business, they may consider dispensing with the filing of a schedule 
C as part of form 1040 if they so desire. 
c. The informant's own personal situation, however, sho.uld be taken into 
consideration as he may receive income from other sources as an inde­
pendent contractor ,·i"hich would. require the deductio.n of self-employ­
ment tax, regardless of any Bureau income he may receive, 
d. In considering the filing of a tax on self-employment income, such 
a return is based upon net earnings from self-empl0yment of $400 
or more. If an informant receives less than $400 from the Bureau 
and has no other self-employment :i.ncome, this money in any event 
is not subject to the self-employmen-t tax. If the informant re­
ceives[ $4800]or more from outside employment subject to Soc:i,al 
Security tax, again the self-employment tax requirements do. not 
apply. . 
e. Bureau income should be set forth under item 10 0n page one of the 
.Federal income tax return, form 1040, as "Other Income" and explained 
under schedule H(3) on page three of the return as income received 
from other sources for personal services rendered through a private 
enterprise or similar general term applicable to informant's position 
and station in life. 
20 
2-12-60 
.. 
,. ___ "":t 
.:;;'.~ 
