:'l • * US; ·policy. (Santiago 469, October 5; Santiago 473, October 6) 
Three days later the Chief of Station told General Huerta, Commander 
of the Carabineros that "the U.S. Government favors a military solu-
tion and is willing to support it in ·any manner short of outright 
military intervention.'' (Task Force Log, 9 October) General Huerta 
informed the COS that there was no chance of a coup by the Chilean 
Army high command. (Task Force Log, 10 October) 
On October 7, Colonel Wimert approached members of the War Academy 
in Santiago who in turn asked him to provide light weapons. This was 
Colonel Wimert's first contact with the Army Lt. Colonel.to whom he 
** would ultimately pass three submachine guns.on October 22. At this 
meeting, the Lt. Colon~l told Colonel Wimert that he and his colleagues 
were 
trying to exert force on Frei to eliminate 
Gen. Schneider to eithe·r replace him, send 
him out of the country. They had even stud­
ied plans to kidnap him. Schneider is the 
main barrier to all plans for the military 
to take over the government to prevent an 
Allende presidency. (Santiago 483, 8 October) 
* According to the CIA's wrap-up report on Track II, between October 5 
and October 20, the CIA Station and the Army Attache--for the most part 
the latte,r--made 21 contacts with key military and_ C~rabinero officials. 
(CIA Report on Chilean Task Force Activities, 8 November 1970) 
** In his testimony, Colonel Wimert indicated that the Lt. Colonel was 
affiliated with General Canales. (Wimert testimony, p. 52) In a cable 
sent to Headquarters on October 18, in which the Lt. Colonel's request 
for three submachine guns was made, the Station indicated that Wimert 
believed the Army officer, and his companion, a Navy Captain, were in 
league with Admiral Tirado. (Station 562, October 18) At another point 
in his testimony, Wimert stated, "There was Valenzuela here and the Navy 
Captain and the Army Lt. Colonel and the Air Fof~e·'~e11e'ra,1 ov~r. here." 
(Wimert testimony, p. 107) The Committee has beeri unable to determine 
the exact affiliation of the Army Lt. Colonel. However, as previously 
stated, both General Canales and Admiral Tirado were affiliated with ~ 
General Valenzuela and Admiral Tirado was in contact with General Viaux. 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 467 
-
-
.. • 
,, .. 
i 
i---,.-
-
