( 
( 
( 
[ 
! 
f 
SECTION 87. 
\ 
-
INVESTIGATION OF SUBVERSIVE 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVI --~ 
87E 
b. This would include leaders of organizations whose aims include the over­
throw or destruction of the Government of the United States or the 
government of any state, territory, district, or possession thereof, 
or the government of any political subdivision therein, by unlawful 
means. The term· "leaders" denotes those individuals, .i,rrespective 
of title, who are in a position to significantly influence the 
policies or direct the activities of the group. Mere membership 
in an organization, without the element of leadership or without a 
demonstrated willingness and capability described in paragraph a, 
is not sufficient for inclusion in ADEX. 
c. Individuals should be considered a "current threat" to the national 
security when reliable information has been developed that the-y have 
engaged in activity or exhibited the requisite willingness and capability 
falling within the above-described criteria during prior two years 
and there is no indication they have ceased such activity. However; 
there may be instances where retention of an individual in ADnx· is 
justified even though no pertinent information is available during 
the prior two years. For example, such retention might be warranted. 
in the case of individuals who have gone into hiding, temporarily 
left the country, or been imprisoned. 
d. ADEX should not include individuals who may be ideologically committed 
to a philosophy which calls for the downfall of our form of government 
or \'1hich favors another form of society but who have not shown a current 
willingness or capability of engaging in meaningful action to promote 
their beliefs. This might apply, for example, to rank-and-file members 
of the Socialist Workers Party or the Communist Party, USA, or other 
old-line revolutionary groups which have advocated an overthrow of 
our present form of government but where subjectrs activity is 
primarily ideological in nature and not oriented toward action. Each 
case should be reviewed on an individual basis in the light of the 
criteria enumerated above. 
3. Recommendation for preparation of ADEX card 
a. When dangerousness of subject has been established, office of origjn 
should prepare recommendation on FD-122, in triplicate. Forward 
original and copy to FBII-IQ, and place copy in subject's file. 
b. Attach additional page or pages to FD-122 setting out succinct 
su1Tu11ary of facts on which recommendation based. 
c. Nonprosecutive summary report should be submitted when subject is 
recommended for ADEX unless one was previously furnished to FBI~Qo 
In latter instance, submit up-to-date report. • 
d. Do not delay recommendation for ADEX because of absence of complete 
background or descriptive data. 
e. Do not def er recommendation for ADEX because subject is missing·, 
temporarily out of the country, or in prison. 
f. If FBIHQ approves recommendation, ADEX cards will be prepared • 
including two copies for field. Copy of FD-122 will be returned 
sta.lJlped "ADEX card approved, copies attached. 11 Check cards for 
accuracy. Place one in alphabetical section of field office ADEX 
and other in either geographical section or unavailable section. 
_g. When subject is approved for ADEX, submit Security Flash Notice 
. ..,_ (FD-165) to check records of Identification Division and post f la?h 
-notice if fingerprints of subject are on file. FD-165 will be 
returned if positive identification cannot be made. In latter event, 
19 
6-6-73 
NW 8832!1 Docld:32989529 1879 
.. 
! ..... i 
' ' ·1 
! 
I 
I 
' ! I I 
i 
I ! ! 
l 
l i 
I 
