13-00000 
collections of scientific, humanistic and engineer­
Ing tal~nt, that either already exist in the aero­
space companies, universities and think tanks, or 
can be collected there. In essence, this bill 
solves one aspect of the problem, It replaces small 
or local or single-commodity market-places with a 
national market-place based on national needs, I 
suspect that the new agency will find that big aero­
space companies usually do not have the necessary 
mix of talents, although they probably do have the 
necessary organization. The universities, on the 
other hand, probably do have the necessary mix of 
talents, but probably do not have the proper organ­
ization. It seems, however, to be a logical first 
·step, and the sooner the bill becomes law, the 
sooner we can begin to solve our problems. 
International Institute of Applied Systems Analysis 
An example of the international approach is the 
recently established International Institute of Ap­
plflllF.Systems Analysis in Vienna as a joint venture 
of our National Academy of Sciences and the Soviet 
Academy, among others. Since they will operate on 
about three-and-a-half million dollars a vear (the 
Civil Science part of the National Selene~ Policy 
and Priorities Act allots an average of 270 million 
per year for three years) it is unreasonable to ex­
pect anything more than papers for publication to 
come out of Vienna. The international effort will 
result in more knowledge and wisdom; on the pro­
posed national budget we could become virtuous as 
well. 
In Order to be Virtuous 
One Must be Wise and Knowing 
One final caution. I hope you have not heard 
me suggest that only scientists and engineers are 
capable of leading us out of the thicket of diffi­
culties we are in. I am not advocating technocracy, 
that totalitarian philosophy which says that only 
engineers can lead us. I do not believe that tor 
one moment, nor does anyone who knows enough engi­
neers and scientists. There is no reason to believe 
that they, as a class, are any more capable of 
leading our people than, say, the lawyers. 
I would rather that you heard me say that no 
longer is it virtue.merely to do it, but rather 
that in order to be virtuous one must also be wise 
and also knowing. 
Our Leaders Must Be Part Scientist, 
Part Humanist, and Part Engineer 
We will need new kinds of agencies and organiza­
tions to define "the public interest" and to find 
111Bys of organizing the talents that may solve some 
of our problems. But organizations - universities 
and corporations and public agencies - are built by 
people, led by other people, So our leaders must be 
part scientist, part humanist, and part engineer, 
and they must use what they ~ave, not in response to 
some particular market-place, but in the true public 
interest. Not nearly enough people will be born 
with these characteristics. They will have to be 
educated. 
If this sounds like a very tall order to put to 
an education system - it is. . 
But we should be encouraged to redesign our edu­
cation systems to help produce su~h people, not only 
because we have to (God knows \Ve do) if mankind is 
too survive - but also because we know it is pos-·aible. □ 
NUMBLES 
Neil Macdonald 
Assistant Editor 
Computers and Automation 
A .. numble" is an arithmetical problem in which: digits 
have been replaced by capital letters; and there are two 
messages, one which can be read right away and a second 
one in the digit cipher. The problem is to solve for the 
digits. 
Each capital letter in the arithmetical problem stands for 
just one digit O to 9. A digit may be represented by more 
than one letter. The second message, which is expressed in 
numerical digits, is to be translated (using the same key) 
into letters so that it may be read; but the spelling uses 
puns or is otherwise irregular, to discourage cryptanalytic 
methods of deciphering. 
We invite our readers to send us s~lutions, together with 
human programs or computer programs which will prqduce 
the solutions. 
NUMBLE 7311 
FY OU 
x G I VE 
Y LU_ Y I T 
YOTRUO 
E U E U U E 
TYCUOR 
=CTUIOUOVT 
Solution to Numble 7310 
GV =CU 
327897972 
In Numble 7310 in the October issue, the digits 0 
through 9 are represented by letters as follows: 
O-=0 W=5 
1=1 P=6 
E=2 T=7 
S=3 R=B 
H=4 A=9 
; 
The message is: Eat what is ripe. 
, 
Our thanks to the following individuals for submitting 
their solutions - to Numble 7310: Edward A. Bruno. N. 
Bergen, NJ. - to Numble 739: Edward A. Bruno, N: Ber­
gen, NJ.; T. P. Finn, Indianapolis, Ind. - to Numble 738: 
Nihan Lloyd-Thurston, S. Nutfield, Surrey, England. 
