.( 
,. 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
G. 
SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORM.kNTS .AND CONFIDli'1'l'TI.AL SOURCES 107G 
IUFORMANTS1 INFORYi.A.t ·• 1. General instructions re oral and written information 
a. Instructions regarding preparation, submission, and handling of 
information received from informants apply not only to security 
inf-ormants but also to potential security informants, panel sources, 
security confidential sources, ani security source~ of information. 
b. Specific instructions and guidance must be given to informants. 
concerning preparation of statements containing their ·information. 
c. They should be submitted as quickly as possible after a meeting 
or activity. • 
d. Written statements should be submitted whenever possible, but if such 
cannot be done information may be provided orally. In espionage and 
foreign nationality matters written statements are usually necessary 
only in those instances involving; possible future prosecution. (In 
the majority of cases diplomats or officials who are not subject to 
prosecution are involved.) . 
e. Carefully scrutinize each, bearing; in mind that if informant is oailed 
upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be 
introduced in court, 
f. .All information furnished by informants orally or in writing must b.e 
promptly reviewed, recorded, indexed, evaluated, ·channelized, and all 
necessary action taken. Form FD-306 may be used in lieu of a chan­
nelizing memorandum if desired, If so used, prepare copies of FD-306 
as needed for channelization and staple one copy to each copy of in­
formant's statement being channelized. Channelization should be noted 
on original FD-306 and on all copies. [In those instances in which in­
formant's statement contains references to a large number of individuals 
and/or organizations, and statement e~ceeds two pages in length, con­
sideration should be given to channelizing to a substantive case file 
only those portions of statement which apply to particular individual 
or organization. Of cour~e, entire informant's statement should be 
filed in informant's subfile. This procedure should save filing space, 
time of reviewing files, and should be employed unless a logical rea-
son dictates otherwise.] 
g_. Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, advise trial attor­
ney that informant not only furnished information concerning instant 
case but also provided other statements not pertinent to case at issue.· 
Trial attorney will thus be prepared in event informant testifies on 
direct examination or cross-examination that he furnished information 
in addition to his testmony. 
h. See subsection M for instructions regarding filing informant statements. 
2. Recording written and oral information 
a. Written by informant 
(1) May be in handwriting or hand printing of informant.or typed. 
(2) Original only should be submitted and informants should never 
retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously check 
informants to see that they do not·keep any notes or copies. 
(
4
3} Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification. 
( ) Date when informant prepares statement should be placed at the 
top of it. 
(5) All information obtained by informants regarding each meeting 
or each separate activity in which they engage should be sub­
mitted in one statement whether the information is of 
evidentiary or intelligence value. 
lOa. 
7-14-69 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1285 
