( -'-'} 
\~ ... _ .. ,/ 
Presidential Assistant 1heodore Sorensen said that his "first-hand 
knowledge" of .Cuban affairs was limited to the post-Bay of Pigs period 
(Sorensen, P. 4), Sorensen stated, however, that his general opinion based 
upon his close contact with President Kennedy, was that 
r---"such an act [as assassination] was totally 
' foreign to his character and conscience, 
foreign to his ftmdamental reverence for 
human life and his respect for his adversaries, 
foreign to his insistence upon a moral dimen足
sion in U.S. foreign policy to his pragmatic 
i recognition that so horrendous but inevitably 
I counterproductive a precedent committed by a 
L
I country whose own chief of state was inevitably 
vulnerable could only provoke reprisals and in足
flame hostility." (Sorensen, p. 5). 
Sor;n lso said that President Kenn;dy "would not make major foreign 
policy decisions alone without the knowledge or participation of one or more 
of those senior foreign policy officials in whose judgment and discretion he 
had confidence." (Sorensen, pp. 5-6). 
Sorensen concluded his testimony by providing the Committee his judgment 
on the following question: 
"Q: Would you think it would be possible that the 
Agency, the CIA could somehow have been under 
the impression that they had a tacit authorization 
for assassination due to a circumspect discussion 
that might have taken place in any of these 
meetings? 
Sorensen: It is possible, indeed, I think the 
President on more than one occasion felt that Mr. 
Dulles, by making rather vague and sweeping re足
ferences to particular countries was seeking tacit 
approval without ever asking for it, and. the Presi足
dent was rather concerned that he was not being 
asked for explicit direction and was not being given 
explicit information, so it is possible. But on 
something of this kind, assassination, I would 
doubt it very much. Either you are for it or you 
are not for it, and he was not for it. 11 (Sorensen, 
7/21/75, pp. 32-33.) ... 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 127 
