13-00000 
. APR 04 '97 10:07AM 
PAGE 25 
56 Md. L. Rev. 1, *20 
intelligence agencies grumble about having to make public that vhich is most 
precious to them, but they argue that such declassification ;is costly and time 
consuming, especially in an era of diminished resources. n14O 
- -Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
nl4O. See Tim Weiner, C.I.A. Is Slow to Tell Early Cold War Secrets, N.Y. 
Times, Apr. 8, 1996, at A6, available in LEXIS, News. Library, Nyt File. 
- - -End Footnotes- - - - - - - -
[*21] 
VII. The Board and the Intelligence Services 
·The JF.K Ac:t is an actempc not. only co deal with the issue of public confiden~- . 
in government, n141 buc also co forge a tnodel of how we might keep· from sinking··· 1 
in our own secrets. Yet, the incelligence community resists the opening of 
classified materials, even those that are now a third-of-a-century old. This 
defiance is particularly ironic in the case of tbe Kennedy assassination~· in 
that the intelligence agencies most troubled by the disclosures are the same 
ones chat mosc often figure in conspiracy theories. nl42 Disclosing materials 
that. t.he CIA and FBI want postponed might actually affirm that neither a foreign 
nor domestic conspiracy existed and demonstrate the vital role they played in 
supporting American interests in the Cold War. 
- - • • - - - • • - - - - - - - - -Footnotes- -
n14l. See Assassination Materials Dis-closure Act I, supra note 96, at l 
(opening statement of Chairman John Glenn) (observing that •disclosure o! 
information is the only reliable way to maintain the public trust and to dispel 
distrust•). 
nl42. See, e.g., Exhibit Nine infra p. S4. As early as 1976, the CIA itself 
acknowledged that 11conspiracy theories have frequently thrown suspicion on our 
organization." Id. 
-End Footnoces- -
Congress never contemplated total disclosure, otherwise it would not have 
created the JFK Board. nl43 Disclosure is an important public interest, but so 
too is protecting sensitive information. n144 There are many occasions for 
secrecy. For example, most deliberative bodies make a virtue of secrecy, because 
it permics compromise by allowing individuals to make concessions without losing 
face; nl45 The supreme Court has observed: "Human experience teaches that those 
who expect public dissemination of their remarks may well temper candor wich a 
concern for appearances and for their own interests to the detriment of the 
decisionmaking process.• nl46 The Court knows whereof ic speaks, as its 
decisionmaking process in conference remains entirely confidential. n147 
- -Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - • 
nl43. Both.the plain reading of the statute and an examination of the 
legislative history make clear that Congress expected the Board to protect 
P.25/44 
