) ,. ' 
j. 
• .... ,r.-
C 
-i:i.cTION 87. 
•• 
SECURITY INVESTIGAT' ~S 
• 
87H 
furnish copies of reports bearing dual character 1 "Security of Govern­
ment Employees; Security Matter - C," to appropriate intelligence 
agencies of armed service~. Instructions regarding dissemination to 
Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office, Defense Supply Agency, 
Columbus, Ohio, appear in this section of this manual under individuals 
employed in or having access to key facilities - disseminationo In­
structions regarding all phases of FBI responsibilities under Executive 
Order 10450 are in section 19, volume II, of this manual. 
Individuals who own property or reside in immediate vicinity of instal­
lation or other premises under cognizance of branch of armed services 
Disseminate locally to intelligence service of military branch involved. 
Airmen issued certificates by Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) 
FM issues certificates to airmen, defined as persons in command or 
acting as pilot, mechanic, or member of crew in navigation of aircraft 
while under way; individuals directly in charge of inspection, main­
tenance, overhauling, or iepair of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, 
or appliances; and any individual serving in cap~city of aircraft 
dispatcher or air-traffic control tower operator .. Furnish subversive 
data con~erning such persons to Bureau by report or Lt1~. In cover 
communication, recommend it be furnished to FAAo Dissemination will 
be made only at Bureau .. For additional instructions regarding dissemina­
tion to FAA, see MRR, part II , section 5. 
Dissemination to Secret Service 
Under agreement between FBI and Secret Service concerning protective 
responsibilities dated 11-26-71 (set out in section 102, volume· IV, 
of this manual), reports or LHMs are disseminated to Secret Service 
(both locally and at SOG) in all cases which meet standards set fortho 
As practical matter, this includes virtually all security cases on 
individuals where any substantial information exists as to subversive, 
extremist, or revolutionary activities or sympathies on the subject's 
part. Furnish Bureau extra copy of report or LHM in these cases. 
(1) Secret Service must be advised of reason for referral; that is, 
statement of class or classes of agreement which applies to 
subjecto Use FD-376, which serves as letter of transmittal for 
both local and SOG dissemin~tiono Forward original and one co~y. 
to Bureau. Maintain copy in case file and upon transfer of or1g1n, 
furnish copy to new office of origin. Be certain individual is 
properly categorizedo 
(2) If subject of prior investigation is being recommended for ADEX, 
do not disseminate prior reports without first reviewing them 
carefully to insure they meet current reporting standards and are 
suitable for dissemination. If one or more prior reports are· 
found unsuitable for dissemination, prepare LHM containing the 
pertinent information involved for dissemination to Secret Service 
along with current reporto Forward copies of such LHM to Bureau for 
SOG dissemination. 
(3) After initial dissemination to Secret Service, as changes occur 
in residence and employment, advise Secret Service locally by 
FD-366 and furnish two copies to Bureau .. 
(4) For instructions pertaining to dissemination to Secret Service 
_in matters involving threats against President, refer to section 
134B, volume IV, of this manual. 
47 
4-13-72 
·NW 38~21 Docld:32989529 Pag~ 
I 
I i 
i 
1 
I 
I 
·I 
