-76-
testified that, after reading Martin's report in the press, he told Martin 
"your first sentence is not only completely untrue, but there is not a 
single thing in your story that says it is true." (Lansdale, p. 65) 
As discussed above (seep._), Lansdale testified that on his own initiative 
he had originated the request to Harvey without discussing the matter with 
anyone and that a Castro assassination plan never came up in his discussions 
with Robert Kennedy (or with President Kennedy). 
In view of Martin's testimony that the lead paraGraph of his report 
was a conclusion based on the totality of his interview with Lansdale, it 
should be noted that the remainder of Martin's story does not state that 
Lansdale was ordered by President Kennedy or Robert Kennedy to develop 
plans for a Castro assassination. The report quotes Lansdale.as stating 
"I was working for the highest authority in the land ... the President" 
and goes on to state that Lansdale said he did not deal directly with 
the President but '{.;orked through" an intermediary more intimate to the 
President than Bundy.:_/ It can be noted that the phrases "working for" 
and "working through" are not the same as the lead paragraph's conclusion 
that Lansdale was "acting on orders" to develop a Castro a~~assination plan. 
In ada.i"tion, suosequent paragraphs in the Martin report indicate that Lansdale 
said• the decision to include. assassiriation in his planninr; was Lansdale 1 s 
own, as he .testified it was to the Committee. Thus, the l-lartin report states 
Lansdale said that assassination was "one of the means he LLansdalJ 
considered," that it was Lansdale's belief that assassination would not have 
been "incompatible" with his assignment, and that Lansdale said "I just wanted 
to see if the U~S. had any such capabilities." 
:_/ The Martin report states that Lansdale refused to provide this 
intermediary's name for the record. In respectinr, the confidentiality 
of news sources, the Committee didnot seek to ask Martin what was said 
off the record to him in the course of his newsr,;,:athering efforts. (Martin, 
p. _). 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 217 
.· 
