f
. 
•' 
. -' . 
/ 
WriGht said that her arrest at the hands of-Los 
Angeles City :~:;:-cl s~curity Officers, during the n;cent .. 
Manual Arts High School disturbance, had at least one bright 
·result. She said that at the time of her arrest it had been 
necessary for the arresting off ice rs to drag her down the 
hall as she was too i:eavy for the:n to carry. Then she added 
that the ne.xt time she is arrested the officers ·will not have 
that excuse as she has lost thirty pounds in the meantime. 
The speeches in the patio ended at 1:30 PM and many 
of the women left im.rnediately. Seventy-eight ·women remained 
and attempted to enter a special committee meeting being attended 
by some ·of the School Board members. They were informed by a 
member of-the administrative staff-that the public meeting of the 
School Board would not be held until 4 :00 P;11., the regularly 
scheduled meeting time.. The women milled around in the hall1·my 
outside the meeting room, until finally a staff member came out 
and told them that two members· of the School Board, Reverend 
James E. Jones and Dr. Julian.Nava, had agreed to grant them an 
audience. The 1·1or.1en were then ushered into the public board 
room of the School Board where they 1·:aited until 2 :00 PM at 
which time the above-named Board members granted the demonstrators 
a short audience and answered some questions put to them by the 
women. One question., as to how much longer the members of the 
School• Board were going to· permit recruiters· from the armed • 
forces to interviei•z students at local-· high schools and junior 
colleges remained unansi·1ered, but Dr. Nava pointed out to the 
women that he had seen nothing wrong in entering the armed- -
fore es· to fight for this count :ry hi::i.self 1·rhen he i'.?aS 17 years 
of age., and he could see nothing wrong in other young men who 
wanted to do the same today. The demonstration was concluded 
by 3 :OO fi,1. There were no incidents and no arrests.·· 
Placards carried during this denonstration in Los 
Angeles bore the following cap~ions: · 
-- 11Eat Texas Beef, Not L.B.J. Baloney" 
11Woman Power is Vote Power is Peace Pm•zer" 
"Draft Beer Not Students" 
11Where Have All the Men· Gone-To Graveyards" 
"Jeannette Rankin Brigade-Women's Votes Count, End 
the War" 
"Women's P01·1er is Peace P01•1er." 
'
i!lNW o,o 321 . A Special Agent of the FBI observed 
ou D~ld~~Paf~s'Gasian females assemble at 10 :05 
a separate group of 
AM, in the ~iciaity 
