I 
f 
t I 
t 
l 
~ 
i 
I ? t 
I i 
f 
l, 
I 
.; 
' l 
( 
[ 
[ 
( 
( 
L. 
l'.ART II ·6K - L. 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
. Included in the index may be individuals in Government, business, or 
industryo Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are u-n:­
usua.lly cooperative or furnish special types of information. Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. Ari index may 
be maintained in residen·t; agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source· of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to_ do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a locked, steel file cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in the field office. The cards shall pertain only to the 
territory. covered; under such circumstances there shall be no duplicate 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete. 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not remove 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information indexo 
2. Files 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparation of· sources 
of information. 
3, Security and racial sources of information 
4. 
SAC 
1. 
2. 
3, 
Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and racial 
sources of information. For security sources of information, see 
section 107N, item 3b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions for 
form to be followed; for racial sources of information, s~e section 130G,· 
item 2b; volume IV, of the Hanual of Instructions, If the security 
or racial source of information is not being paid on Bureau authorization 
and is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source of information 
must dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same 
, certification as to stability and reliability as required by payment 
letters. 
Gifts should not be given to ~ources since such actions might be 
misconstrued. 
CONT.A.CTS 
SAC contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, can 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual a~d highly 
valuable assistance to the FBI upon the request of the SAC. 
A complete file review must be m~de[and an-FD-9 submitted]on each contact 
(file review on spouses, near relatives, or business ~ot necessary unless 
special circumstances prevail). • : 
SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Request this approval by 
letter to the Bureau captioned " __ __,, __ , SAC Contact. 
11 
Mark the letter 
for the attention of the Crime Records Division. Use the following sub­
headings in the order given: 
a. Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of kno1m hi story 
(e. Results of Identification Division check] 
[f.] Derogatory information 
[g.] Recommendation of SAC 
S11brnit an original and two copies, but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication. If the SAC contact is 
appro•rcd the :;inglc-page copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to th0 f eld. If the contact is not approved, a letter is to be submitted 
to the f eld stating Ythy the individual cannot be used as an SAC con.tact. 
7 
12-29-67 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 995 
