13-00000 
I 
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
OCA 2034-92 
1 May 1992 
SUBJECT: House Government Operations Corranittee Hearing on 
H.J. Res. 454 (JFK Materials Resolution) 
1. On 28 April, the undersigned attended a public 
hearing on tbe proposed Assassination Materials Disclosure 
Act conducted by the House Government Operations Legislation 
and National Security Subcorranittee. Majority 
Committee/Subcommittee Chairman Conyers and Ranking Minority 
Member Horton were present for the entire hearing; majority 
Subcommittee members English, Neal, Peterson, and Thornton 
and minority members Shays and Schiff and full Corranittee 
member Martinez attended at least part of the hearing. The 
Committee's Press release, which criticizes the government 
and particularly CIA as releasing JFK-related documents nat 
a snail's pace", and witness statements are attached. 
2. The hearing was well attended by the public and 
attracted much media coverage. Eight witnesses testified in 
four groups: Congressmen Louis Stokes (assisted by 
Robert Blakey, former counsel to the House Select Committee 
on Assassinations) and former HPSCI Chairman Lee Hamilton 
testified first. The congressmen were followed by the movie 
"JFK"'s director Oliver Stone, who was followed by 
Howard Willens, Counsel to the Warren Commission, and 
James Johnston, Counsel to the Church Committee. The 
session closed with a panel comprised of Ms. Leslie Harris, 
Chief Legislative Counsel for the Washington office of the 
ACLU; Dr. Herbert Parmet, Professor of History, 
Queensborough Community College and Graduate School of the 
City University of New York, and Dr. Harold Rellyea, 
American National Government Specialist at the Congressional 
Research Service. • 
3. Chairman Conyers advised in his opening remarks 
that the Committee wanted to hear from the Executive branch 
and thus would hold another hearing session. He noted that 
"after much negotiation," the.Director of Central 
Intelligence would be testifying in mid-May. He further 
noted that the Committee also hoped to hear from the 
Attorney General, bu_t negotiations with the Justice 
Department were still ongoing. Conyers was criticized of 
the DoJ at the outset, noting that the Committee had 
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY 
