iJ 
" ... what had happened was that SAS had contrived 
to put B-1 and AMLASH together in such a way that 
neither of them knew that the contact had been engin­
eered by CIA. The-thought was that B~l needed a man 
inside and AMLASH wanted a silenced weapon, which CIA 
was unwilling to furnish to- him directly. By putting 
the two together, B-1 might get its man inside Cuba 
and AMLASH might get his silenced weapon -- from B-1." 
(I.G., p. 101) 
A report of a meeting between a case officer and 
B-1 states that B-1, in his initial contacts with AMLASH-1, discussed 
plans for assassinating Castro. AMLASH-1 suggested that guerrilla 
raids against Cuba should be stepped up one month before the 
-"attempt on Fidel Castro" to "prepare the public and raise the morale 
and resistance spirit of the people." B-1 reported that AMLASH-1 
believed that the only solution to the problems in Cuba would be 
"to get rid of Fidel Castro. He is able either to shoot 
him with a silencer or place .a bomb in some place where 
Fidel will be. He might use, for example, a small bomb 
that he can carry and place, or with his group attack, 
the residence where Fidel lives .... B-1 is going to 
provide AMLASH-1 with escape routes and places where B-1 
is able to pick him up. He will memorize these points 
and escape routes ... Next, B-1 is to provide AMLASH-1 either 
a silencer for a FAL or a rifle with a silencer.* 
* A CIA document dated January 3, 1965, states that B-1 told a 
case officer that he and AM/LASH-1 had reached an ·agreement on the 
following points: 
"l. B-1 is to provide AM/LASH-1 with a silencer for the FAL· , 
if this is impossible, B-1 is to cache in a designated 
location a rifle with a scope and silencer plus several 
bombs concealed either in a suitcase, a lamp or some 
other concealment device which he would be able to carry 
and place next to Fidel Castro. 
"2. B-1 is to provide AM/LASH-1 with escape routes controlled 
by B-1 and not by the Americans. The lack of confidence 
built up by the Bay of Pigs looms large: 
"3. B-1 is to prepare one of the western provinces, either 
Pinar del Rio or Havana, with arms caches and a clandes­
tine underground mechanism. This would be a fall back 
position and a safe area where men and weapons are avail­
able to the group. 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 63 
