13-00000 
t' 
PAGE 21 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
And I think and hope that in the event of such an occurrence in the future --: 
which all of us hope would never occur - that our agencies will realize that 
this has been a good example of how we could allay some of the fears and 
suspicions that the American people have around the manner in which we conduct 
this type of thing. • 
REP. LATOURETTE: Thank you very much, Congressman Stokes, for your expertise -
REP. STOKES: Thank you. 
REP. LATOURETTE: - and thank you, Mr. Chairman, for yielding. 
REP. HASTERT: Thank you. 
And at this time I recognize the gentleman from Texas. 
REP. JIM TURNER (D-TX): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
And all I would add is to also compliment you, Mr. Stokes, for your many years 
of work on this effort. I too stand somewhat in awe at the number of years of 
service and your contributions to this body. 
REP. STOKES: Thank you. 
REP. TURNER: And I know the Congress and the American people are grateful for 
the years of service you've provided not only on this issue, but on many other 
issues to which you've contributed. • 
And I also want to thank those who've served on this panel, because I'm sure it 
is a time-consuming endeavor to carry out this task. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
REP. HASTERT: Thank you, Mr. Turner. 
Thank you, Mr. Stokes. 
REP. STOKES: Thank you. 
REP. HASTERT: The second panel, come forward, please. 
Our distinguished second panel includes four witnesses: Mr. John Tunheim, the 
chair of the Assassination Records Review Board; Mr. Steven Tilley, the chief of 
the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection at the National Archives. 
We also have Mr. Max Holland, the author and contributing editor of the Wilson 
Quarterly; and Mr. Bruce Hitchcock, an historian and teacher at Noblesville High 
School in Indiana, our distinguished chairman's home state. 
And I also would say that, at this time, Mr. Burton would have wanted to be here 
to make a few comments. He is not here yet. We may entertain that at any time. 
So, if you gentlemen would please stand, and -- (witnesses are sworn in). Thank 
you. Let the record show that the witnesses answered in the affirmative. 
And we start with you, Mr. Tunheim. 
JOHN TUNHEIM (Chair, Assassination Records Review Board): Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. I, too, would like to submit my written testimony for the record and 
