C. 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
{4) 
NW 3832f Docld:32989529 
SEr'~ImT 87. SECURITY IUVESTIG.ATIQlTC: 87D 
• 'i. 
locate subjects are not to be submitted. The Bureau 
will closely follow investigative ac·~ion to locate 
missing security index subjects. 
II. If you receive indications that the subject went to 
Mexico or Canada, request the Bureau to alert other 
appropriate Government agencies to this possibility 
and to determine any available verifying information 
through liaison channels. 
III. If the subject is reported to have gone to any other 
foreign country, the Washington Field Office should be 
requested to check the records of the Passport Office 
of the State Department for verification. 
IV. When all logical leads have been exhausted int-he case 
of a missing important functionary, consideration should 
be given to circularizing all field offi.ces with th·e 
subject's photograph and background information for the 
purpose of alerting the entire field to the identity 
of the subject. Bureau authority must be obtained be­
fore circularization is made, In seeking Bureau author­
ity, advise the Bureau as to the position held by the 
subject and what efforts have already been made to locate 
him. 
If this procedure is to be effective, its application 
must necessarily be restrictive in the number of subjects 
to which it is applied. Therefore, requests to circularize 
must be made only after eYery possible lead has been, 
exhausted and then only in the cases·of the most impor-
tant missing functionaries. 
Individuals traveling abroad (Also consider section 105G, 
volume IV, of this manual.) 
When inforw~tion is received indicating that[(l) a subject of a 
current security investigation; (2) a subject whose name is 
included in agitator index or priorities I or II of-security 
index, or (3) where information available indicates. a subject of 
a past security investigation may be a "sleeper" or in an under­
ground capacity, or where current information otherwise would 
indicate a need to effect foreign coverage,] 
intends to travel abroad or has already departed this country 
for foreign travel, take f.ollowing action: 
(a) Immediately advise the Bureau by letterhead memorandum 
setting forth complete available details concerning 
the foreign travel, including places and dates of departure 
and intended return, .destination and itinerary, purpose 
of trip, the exact name under which the passport was 
issued, the number of the passport, and the office issuing 
the passport, if known. Include in the letterhead 
memorandum a full description of the subject, including 
all aliases, and in the case of Chinese and Korean 
subjects Chinese telegraphic code and Korean telegraphic 
code numbers, as well as a concise resume of available 
subversive data regarding the subject. Do not delay in 
advising the Bureau of the actual or intended travel 
while developing the details of the travel as time is 
of the essence in this matter. 
(b) Set out a lead for the Washington Field Office for a check 
of the records of the Passport Office, Department of State; 
however, do not limit efforts to develop above information 
to a check of suoh records. 
2036 
33 
6-19-70 
i 
i t 
I . I 
i 
.I 
I 
f 
I I 
