13-00000 
SECRET 
in attempting to be both forthcoming and helpful to him and the 
_.Committee in understanding the DD0' s problems. At the same time 
:Mr. Snodgra·ss pointed out that while he had no quarrel with Mr. Shackley, 
he continued tg be irritated witb the tota)jty pf the A gepcy' s attitude toward 
J>roviding him with data. Mr. Snodgrass then launched into a long litany 
on how the Agency had not been responsive in terms of his needs as he 
perceived them in the time frame February to May 1976. With that as a 
-backdrop Mr. Snodgrass then launched into his inquiry as to why the Agency 
was not willing to give him full access to Management by Objective docu­
ments. The dialogue which followed on this topic had a natural ebb and 
flow to it, but the key point that emerged from this is that Mr. Snodgrass 
continues to feel that unless he can see the Management by Objective 
ll 
documents he will not be able to have a firm understanding of DDO man­
;eower allocation procedures. Secondly, Mr. Snodgrass claims that CIA's 
position that it will show Management by Objective documents to members 
of the Committee and not the Staff is an obstructionist tactic. · His point 
-being that the members of the Committee db not have the time to look at 
such documents and they thus depend on the Committee Staff for this type 
of substantive revi"ew. According to Mr. Snodgrass this means that if the 
-Agency will not provide data to the Staff, it is in fact denying information 
to the Committee members~ Attempts were made by Mr. Shackley to show 
how men of good will on both sides of this question could have an honest 
difference of opinion on the issue. In this framework Mr. Shackley re­
iterated the DDO position that access to Management by Objective dgcµ-
ents b Mr. Snodgrass would impact adversel on th uestion of 
sources ho s as we as· e integrity of the re ortin s stem. As 
a followup to this position an effort was ma e to find out exactly what it 
was about the DDO manpower allocation system that Mr. Snodgrass did 
not understand and which he thought he might find out about from an • 
examination .of the Management by Objective documents. It was hoped 
,that through this line of inquiry an alternate approach could be discovered 
which would enable us to deal with Mr. Snodgrass• problems. Our probes 
in this direction were unsuccessful in clarifying the issue. One can only • 
/ 
conclude that Mr. Snodgrass is committed to finding some sort of a. II 
/ 
formula gr equation which will enable him to test our manpower allocation 
~stem • We have repeatedly outlined ·to him the variable factors that go 
SECRET 
·-----·-·---·------------------...,.,,.,.,,.-- .............. -----
