NW 
Page 482 
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES 
The field of education has long been a major 
targe-t of the Communist Party. The communists' emphasis 
on students in the recent past was best exp~essed bv 
the Party's General Secretary, Gus Hall, when he stated 
".Communism is big, really big, on college campuses now. 
You've got to play the ball game where the players are and 
the really good players are in college." Today there is 
considerable unrest and agitation on colle·ge campuses 
throughout the Nation. Subversive agitators constitute the 
major sou~ce behind this unrest and, from a. long-range 
viewpoint, these campus subversives may well become seriously 
damaging to ou~ national security. In light ·of this, the 
FBI will continue to carry out its defined responsibilities, 
whether they be on the _college campus or elsewhere, while 
at the same time respect the spirit·of academic freedom on 
which our college system is based. 
The two major student and campus groups in the 
United States today are the communist-inspired w. E. B. 
DuBois Clubs of America, with an approximate membership of 
425 members, and the Students for a .Democratic Society, with 
approximately 5,000 members. The Students for a Democratic 
Society has been described by Gus Hall as a new left group 
which the Party bas "going for us." 
Today there is a concerted effort on the part of 
student groups to "knock" the FBI and other Government 
agencies off the college campuses and to prevent such 
agencies from carrying ou~ their assigned duties. For 
example, in early March, 1967, a handful of Students for 
a Democratic Society members at Duke University, _Durham, 
North Carolina, alleged that the FBI in conducting investi­
gations on that campus was infringing on academic freedom , 
by securing infonnation from responsible ,..campus officials 
and students. While we have interviewed officials and students ,. 
at the University in matters within our jurisdiction the 
charges that the FBI was infringing on academic freedom are 
baseless:-
• Another example involves allegations made by a 
group of "liberal" faculty members at State University College, 
Brockport, New York. This group ~lleged that the FBI- was 
having faculty members "spy" on other faculty members, again 
raising the cry of infringement of academic freedom. These 
charges also were baseless and without foundation. 
·1 ,~:l 
.;.♦, t._ 
.. 
; ·,.:..· • .. 
