13-00000 
'' ! 
~ 
I 
.. . 
C 
-
·· SEORET 
EirS ONLY 
.. 3 -
,...---
of all pertinent factors, to determine whether we wish to change the 
present policy. It was agreed that in order to provide a firm basis 
for judgment, we must get a clearer picture of capabilities, of the 
prospects of success, the extent of benefits to be gained from 
successful operations, the dangers of repercussions and of reprisals, 
etc., etc . 
With respect to 1external operations to be mounted by exile groups, 
it was agreed that this sort of activity poses a real dilemma. 
Particularly in view of the recently-enunciated policy tQWard exile 
raids, it becomes increasingly difficult to disavow plausibly 
responsibility for such acts. The U.S. is thus placed in the position 
of either appearing to be ineffective in controlling the exiles or 
of beawing the onus of active involvement in the operations. 
Mr. McCone expressed great skepticism about the desirability of 
proceeding wtth sabotage operations, to include training, until an 
over-all policy is made clear on steps to be taken to assure the re­
moval of Soviet troops and on the problem of Castro. He also com­
mented on the ineffectiveness of Cuban agents and the fact that they 
would undoubtedly talk if captured. Mr. FitzGerald confirmed the 
second point, but felt that these particular Cubans are perhaps more 
effective than the usual run. 
It was decided that probably Friday, the 19th of April, a pre­
sentation should be made to higher authority at which time all 
responsible individuals should have an opportunity to express their 
views. A paper will be prepared, outlining: a proposed broad program 
for sabotage as well as examples· of specific operations; a sense of 
the scale of activity which could reasonably be expected and the 
benefits from it; an estimate of what could be achieved by the use of 
internal assets; possible repercussions; and how such activity would 
fit into overall_ policy~ CIA is to coordinate with State in the· 
preparation of _this paper. .--·-,---·.-::_=-,,c-:::., .. ,.: 
qf 
5. "Y1nnexes to Internal Defen~e Plans 
The Colombia annex was noted. In view of the fact that the 
basic IDP for Bolivia had earlier been remanded for revision by the 
Special Group (CI), the covert annex for that country was held over 
until the overt plan is considered by the CI Group_:J 
) 6 •. ~orth Vietnam Operation~~ 
The monthly report was noted and approvedJ 
. : - • .. _-. - -_. 
(';r.r,nrr 
'., • .. •.: 1 iC. 
EYES ONLY 
