r 
. ' 
I 
. ., C•; 
W 38326 Docld:32989627 
- : - 18 ·--
. 
Mail Covers and Mail Openings 
The Committee is examining the conduct of mail covers 
and mail openings by or on behalf of the FBI and any 
instances of' mail openings op intercepts which may 
have been conducted by or oh behalf of the FBI. This 
inquiry may involve all~g~tions of abuse or other 
controversial matters where there is reason to 
believe improprieties may have occurred. 
Questions 
the Corn.~ittee requests that the FBI and the Justice. 
Department address the f'ollowing specific questions: 
le The specific purposes of all mail covers conducted 
in connection with FBI intelligence and counter­
intelligence acti~ities. This includes all 
, documents pertaining to FBI decisions to request 
Postal Service mail covers and lists of all 
subjects upon whom mail covers have been placed 
as a result of FBI requests since January 1, 1960. 
1 
2o The procedures and practices for the dissemination 
of information from mail covers requested by the 
FBI. This includes a list of all entities to whom 
mail cover information has been disseminated since 
January 1, 1960. 
,· 
3o Whether or not FBI personnel may have conducted 
mail covers in violation of' existing Postal Service 
~regulations. For any mail covers which may have 
been.conducted by FBI personnel or for the FBI by 
persons other than Postal Service employees, from 
January _l, 1960, to the present: identify the 
physical location where the mail cover was 
conducted., the names of all persons who parti·cipated 
~ in and authorized the mail coveP, and a brief· 
explanation of the purpose of the mail cover and 
why it was initiated. 
4o Whether or not the FBI has opened mail or caused 
mail to be opened, either with or without the 
permission of the Postal Service. For all 
incidents of mail opening ~hich may have been 
conducted by FBI employees or by other persons 
in cooperation with the FBI, from January 1, 
1960, until the present: identify the physical 
L~cation where the mail was opened or intercepted, 
the names of the individuals who participated in 
the openin~ or intercept, and the purpose of the 
Pag~~ening or intercept. 
