1 
r 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
activities or close association with other persons will be involved in 
unfavorable publicity or become the subject .of adverse investigative 
activity, or who will capitalize on their friendly association with 
the SAC~ ,.· 
4. Except where a suitable fi·le is already in existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
5. A three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained in an SAC 
contact box in the exclusive possession ·of the SAC. Each card is to 
contain: 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telephone numbers 
c.. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any comments which would be helpful in handling the ·individual 
e. Date. of first contact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
{Show in the lower left corner on the front of the card.) 
f. Dates of contacts by the SAG {to be entered on the reverse side of 
the card in longhand). Contacts more frequent than quarterly should 
not be listed. 
g. Any necessary descriptive data 
6. Ea.oh -contact is to be indexed in the general indices. The oa~d is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparationj and the notation~ 
ti See SAC. If 
7. Advise Bureau immediately when a contact is discontinued UACB. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city located within another 
field division, a copy of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
should be designated for that field division. Also advise field division 
of background information re contact. 
B. Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of SAC contaots 0 
9. [Each office must submit a complete roster of SAG contacts to reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and November each year. If there are 
any changes in address, employment, or other pertinent data, such informa~ 
tion s'h!)uld. be set forth. If there is no change in status, so state. 
10. From time to time, the Bureau sends these oontaots reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more "FBI mi~ded~ and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indication that s~oh 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay.] 
11. Immediately upon assuming the duties of SAC~ suoh SAG s·hould visit all 
persons listed as SAC oontacts and in addition leading officials looated 
in the field division. 
1,' ',, 
,,"'-' 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 931 
/ -
