1
'[;°04-10306-10003] 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 
( 
-~ 
---------
26 March 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Notes on Special Group Meeting, 26 March 1963 
'· . tJff 
1. [b.ow-level reconnaissance of Cuba. Comparative result of high-
level versus low-level photography were demonstrated by Mr. Lundahl. 
After considerable discussion, it was decided that the matter would be 
held in abeyance for a week pending further developments on the Donovan 
matter. In general, Gilpatric' s attitude was against low-level on the basis 
of Defense intelligence needs, but would agree if State felt periodic low­
levels would establish "right of access". Johnson expressed general 
objection at this time. McCone expressed two prevailing viewpoints within 
CIA, but recommended proceeding with low-level. Bundy agreed to put , -~ 
the matter to higher authority for final decision. McCone suggested he 
was willing to accept responsibility for further delay. 
Action: Matter to be reconsidered each weekJ 
• 911 
2. Ueconnaissance of Indonesia. State, Defense, and Bundy all 
opposed overflying Indonesia. McCone recommended we support the 
British effort and it was agreed that the matter would be put to higher 
authority for decision. J 
. 9~ 
3. ~onthly Report of NRO was reviewed. McCone reported in detail 
on the failure of recent CORONA shots; specifically referred to failures 
of January, February, and March, and the fact that November and 
December were not usually productive of good photography. He advised 
Special Group that new estimates of Soviet capability could not be made 
until the Fall, rather than in June and July as is customary. He advised 
that the next flight was scheduled for Saturday, 30th of March, and it 
will be a standard CORONA. Gilpatric reported that adequate emergency 
back-up arrangements were being made, and delays of a type occurring 
in the last 90 days would not be recurring. 
McCone reported the difficulties incurred with the U-2 generators 
and brushes and the fact that this had caused a standdown of flights in the 
Far East, but not in Cuba. Condition was reported as having been cor­
rected and the North Korean, North China flight is on a weather alertJ 
( 
