13-00000 
I 
'.,t ,1 
. : ... 
; ........ 
26 March 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 26 March 1963 
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone. 
Dr. Scoville, Mr. McMillan, and Colonel Steakley were 
present for Items 1-5. 
Mr. Lundahl was present for Item 1. 
Mr. FitzGerald was present for Item 5. 
I: . . . .. . ... .c....:C" ••• :~·,·:. :9/·.-=..-_ " ... ·, 
1. ~,(}~w~~evel Reconnaissance. Cuba 
In connectio'n with the USIB reconunendation for resumption of 
low-level coverage of Cuba, Mr. Lundahl showed the Group examples 
of the additional information that can be obtained from low-level 
photography as contrasted with high-level coverage. This had to do 
particularly with identificat:ion of materiel, spotting of personnel, 
etc. 
Mr. McCone emphasized that low-level coverage would give.us 
additional information on the numbers of Soviet troops and possibly 
on Soviet intentions, and similar subjects, but that it would not 
represent a qualitative shift in the body of intelligence available. 
It would not reveal anything that would be of major security interest 
to the U.S. and which could not be picked up by high-level coverage. 
Mr. McCone also, referred to the progress of certain negotiations 
which have been holding up active consideration of low-level photo­
graphy. He said that there are differences of opinion among people 
closest to this situation as .to what the effect of resumption of such 
photography actually might be on the negotiations. 
Mr. Gilpatric said that Defense is not convinced of the urgency 
of this proposition and would not favor it at this time, unless others 
feel that there is an overriding political reason for undertaking the 
project. He said that he would prefer to see this capability reserved 
for identifying the type of threat that we might otherwise not be 
aware of,. or used at a time when there was some political advantage to 
be gained by low-level flightsJ . ' :. . ...:~ .:· .. ·.--_ .. _ 
.:... .. ·- •. :.::-''.".: .-:_~-.-· 
See special minutes 
for additiona 1 item 
