i 
I 
! 
( 
• 
14 
• 
A revolutionary mu st rea lizP a_t if he! is since re, 
•death is irn.mincnt du~ to the fa-t that the thin<ss he is 
• saying and doing are-~xtremely dangerous.; Without this • 
realization, ~t is in1possiblc to proceed as ;a, revolutionary., 
· .The 111 ~ S S C S a r e • C On S tan t l y l O Ok in g f Or a g U i cl e , a MC S Si ah'; 
to liberate them from the hands of the opp res so r. The 
. van g u a r <l pa rt y rn u s t ex c mp l i .f y th c c r"(:i r a t: t e r 1 st i c s· o f 
worthy leadership. Millions and n-1illions of oppressed 
people might not know members of the vanguard party 
personally or directly, but they will gain through an 1n,. 
direct acquaintance the proper strategy for liberation via 
the mass media and the physical activities of the pa--rty. 
lt is of prin1c importance that the .vanguar·d party develop 
a political organ, _such as a newspaper produced b9'the 
p3_rty, as well as employ strategically revolutionary art 
and destruction of the,~ppressor's n1achinery. For ex­
an1ple, Watts. The economy and property of the oppres­
sor was destroyed to such an extent that no n-iatter how the 
oppr"'essor tried to whitewash the activitt.lfes of the black 
'·,. . , . . . . . . ~. • .,.· . . .... ~ '· 'oroihets, the ·:real uo.tu1~e an(i•t:iic re::a:1 cdu:se oi the c1ctiv1ty 
was conlmunicate<l to every black community.. For further 
exarnple, no matter how th~ oppressor tries to distort and 
confuse the mes~age of B rather Stokely Carn1ichael, Black 
people all over the c,puntry understand it perfectly and .,· 
welcome it. tt 
• 
The Black Panther Party for Self Defense teaches 
that in the final analysis, the amount of guns and defense 
weapons, such as hand grenades~ bazookas, and other 
nee es sa ry equipment, will be supplied by ·taking these 
weapons from the power structure, as ~xen1plifie<l by the 
Viet Cong. Therefore, th~ greater the rnilitary prepara­
tion on the part of the oppressor, the greater is 0 the avail~ 
ability of weapons for the black community.· It is believed 
by some hypocrites that when the people are taught by the 
vanguard group to prepare fo~. resistance, this only 
brings the man d'own on them with increasing violence ar,d •· . 4 
brutality; but the fact of {he matter is that whc-n the n-1.an 
becomes more oppressive, this only heightens the revo­
lutionary fervor:. The people ncve r 1na kt• revolution. The 
oppi:essors bv their brutal actions cause the resistance by 
the people. The vanguard party only teaches the correct 
. methods of resistance. So, if things can get worse for 
... ··-··· .. " .. 
·159. 
