13-00000 
SECRET 
SUBJECT: (U) Identity of Human Sources 
assets to one-time contacts. It is our understanding that 
additional source names appear throughout the JFK Collection 
and will be reviewed in the future. It is important, 
therefore, that the Review Board and CIA agree on a 
consistent method of dealing with source names appearing in 
the JFK Collection at this time so as not to impede the 
future review of documents. 
4. (C) The Review Board has recently developed a 
policy for releasing the true names of covert CIA employees. 
Although there are many similarities between covert 
employees and sources, there is an important difference that 
should be reflected in the way the Review Board looks at 
this issue. With CIA covert employees who are mentioned in 
this collection, it has been possible in some instances to 
go to them and seek their permission to reveal their names. 
Some of these former employees have even been made available 
for interviews and depositions. With most sources, it is 
not possible to do this. First, CIA has dropped contact 
with some of these sources and may not Qe able to locate 
them. Attempting to find these individuals would create 
some risk of creating suspicions that they were or are 
associated with this Agency or the U.S. Government. If CIA 
were unable to locate a particular source, there would still 
be some risk in releasing his name. Just because CIA cannot 
locate him, does not mean that he is not alive and well­
known in his own community. Even if we were able to locate 
a source without risk to his safety, it is probable that he 
would not want to be visited by the CIA again after so many 
years. More than likely, sources do not now want their past 
association revealed when they have undoubtedly moved on in 
their lives to do other things. Some may be in political or 
private enterprise positi'ons where CIA affiliation would 
damage them professionally and/or harm them and their 
families personally. 
5. (U) Another important distinction that needs to be 
taken into account is the difference between CIA and Federal 
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) "sources." Perhaps the most 
significant difference is that many FBI sources provide 
information with the understanding that the information and 
the source will be publicly revealed. FBI sources are often 
used in criminal prosecutions as witnesses. CI·A, on the 
other hand, promises secrecy and confidentiality to its 
sources. CIA sources rarely appear at public trials. In 
fact, not only is the identity of CIA sources protected from 
public acknowledgment, but also it is closely held within 
the Agency itself. Another difference is the fact that a 
2 
SECRET 
