' . 
CONFIDENTIAL 
DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING U.S. 
POLICY IN VIETNAM 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 
JANUARY 15, 1968 
Approximately ten minutes later the Mayor of 
San Francisco appeared on the steps of the City Hall and announced 
to the demonstrators that he would gladly transmit their 
petition to Congress .. Mayor Alioto stated that he fully 
believed in the constitutional right of peaceful ~ssembly. 
He indicated, however, that because he had consented to 
transmit the demonstrators' petition to Washington, he did not 
necessarily agree with it. The Mayor then stated th?tt it 
was his personal opinion that the United States Government and 
the Johnson Administration had done all in its power to attempt 
to come to a peaceful and honorable solution in the Vietnamese 
War. He related that he felt that it was now up to the other 
side to make the same attempts to arrive at a peaceful solution 
in the Vietnamese conflict. 
At approximately 12:45 p.m., the demonstrators proceeded 
·to the Western Union Office located at 10th and Market Streets 
in San F~ancisco, so that wires could be sent to their congressmen 
in Washington . ..-- . 
A Special Agent of the FBI observed one ;Elaine •. / /i. ,.: 
~c;la ,participating in the above demonstration arid foirowing .. -::---·--~-~ 
demonstration Yoneda was observed to return to her employment 
at the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union 
(ILWU) - Pacific Maritime Association, Pension Fund, at 150 
Golden Gate Avenue,· San Francisco. • 
A second source advised on December 4; 1967, that 
Elaine Yoneda is a current and active member of the Communist 
-~ar;ty (CP). 
On January 15, 1968, a Special Agent of the FBI 
observed a silent protest by a group of women on the lawn 
of Colton Hall, Monterey, California, between 3:00 and 5:00 p.m. 
These women were ostensibly gathered to support the demonstration 
being held in Washington, D.C., sponsored by the Jeannette Rankin 
Brigade. There were no speeches given; the demonstrators merely 
conducted a silent vigil. 
A one page leaflet captioned "Women To Take First 
Step to End The War1' printed by the Jeannette Rankin Brigade, 
at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California, was handed 
out at the above demonstration. A Xeroxed duplication of this 
leaflet is appended to this memorandum. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
W 38321 Dodd:32989544 Page 339 ? 
