J 
( 
t 
[ 
·-.. " 
I 
. 
........ 
J,- ... , 
SECURITY INVESTIG.A.Tit -
(B} During first contact, interviewing .Agent will 
introduce himself as a Special'.Agent of FBI by use 
of credentials or badge and will open conversation 
by using an appropriate pretext or by reciting 
Bureau's responsibilities in security field and 
asking subject whethe·r he can be of° assistance to 
Government. If individual has been·a member of a 
basic revolutionary organization and indicates he· 
might cooperate, he may be questioned during ini­
tial contact about his own activities in order· to 
further.ascertain e:x:tent to which hew-ill cooperat~. 
This original interview is for sole purpose of al­
lowing .A.gent to determine' whether individual being 
interviewed might be cooperatiye. 
{e} Prior.Bureau authority 
.. -. ,. -,;..,,.., ,,,, 
..... ; - '', _, .... 
I. Subjects of active current investigations where no 
interview·with prior Bureau authority has previously 
been conducted 
II. Closed cases where subject is on security index. and 
no prior interview has been conducted 
III. Subjects of investigations requested by Bureau, both 
open and closed, such as applicant-type cases, loyalty 
oases, etc. 
IV. .Any persons where circumstances indicate a delicate • 
situation exists and a greater than usual risk is-in­
volved, such as individuals employed in newspaper field, 
educational field, radio and television industry, reli­
gious field, publishing hous·es, labor leaders, and the 
like. Bureau authority must be requested with respect 
to situations of this kind even though prior interviews 
have been had with these interviewees. • 
V. Security subjects who have publicly disclosed previous 
contacts· 
VI. Subjects of section A reserve index cards 
In any of the above cases, no report need be submitted. when 
requesting Bureau authority to interview a subject of a 
security investigation. This does not relieve you of re­
sponsibility of submitting reports in security cases when 
due. 
VII. Request for Bureau authority for interview should be set 
forth in first paragraph of letter[{after reference}] 
and unless you are recommending a specia•l_ manner or pro­
cedure for conducting interview, paragrapb should con­
tain following statements: 
"Bureau authority is requested to interview subject in 
-accordance with existing instructions relating to 
interviews of security subjects. If this subject is 
cooperative, no affirmative steps will be taken during 
the initial interview ~o direct his activities and 
complete background investigation required by section 
107C of the Manual of Instructions will be conducted 
a.nd Bureau will be requested to authorize re.contact 
with subject as a PSI." 
Form FD-336 contains above statement and may be used 
. in requesting Bureau author:i, ty for interviev1. 
Above statement in no way precludes interviewing .A.gonts 
during initial contacts and recontacts from obtatning 
all subversive information subject is willing to furnish 
or other data which will assist in determining his 
potentialities a.s an informant. 
39 
2-13-70 
-NW-U-32-1-Docld:32989529 eage.2044 
. 
l 
I I 
