6II 
[ 
SECTION 6. 
- P1tRT II -
CONmACTS PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC .,_ 
h. If an item to be submitted appears on_ more than one page of the news­
paper, the words "Continued on page ... ," the subheadline on the con­
tinued page, and the words "Continued from page'"•·" should not be 
mounted. 
i. Mounted clippings should read from top to bottom, column by column, 
from left to right. • 
j. All clippings must be complete. 
k. Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted except that two copies 
of all items pertaining to actuai or possible civil rights violations 
and racial matters ·should be forwarded. • 
l. Include clippings with other mail being sent to Bureau on the day 
that the clippings appear in the local pa~er. Forward clippings from 
resident agencies the day they arrive.at· headquarters city. 
3. Resident Agents must be alert for material appearing in the local press. 
4. Submission of publications of security interest ~o the Bureau 
a. General principle governing submissions 
The Bureau desires .to receive publications of security interest at the 
SOG fo.r purposes o.f information, research, and intelligence. Conse­
quently, it is Tequested that evidentiary copies of publications be 
retained in.the field and.only nonevidentiary copies be forwarded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. 
b. Manner of handling and forwarding nonevidentiary copies of publica­
tions 
(1) Nonevidentiary copies of newspapers, magazines, journals, 
periodicals, news bulletins, and books, obtained- regularly 
(by subscription or repeated purchase) and forwarded to the 
Bureau, need not be identified as to source. They should be 
submitted via ordinary mail by routing sltp (marked for the 
attention of the Central Research(Unit)Junless transmittal 
( 2) 
( 3) 
by cover letter has been specifically requested, Routing slips 
may be used to notify the Bureau of routine administrative 
matters, such as temporary suspension of a publication (e.g., 
during summer months, lack of funds), temporary delay in obtaining 
or receiving particular issues of a publication,.or other informa­
tion which will keep the Bureau informed relative to the status 
of these publications. To avoid confusion, nonevidentiary copies 
which have been marked for identification (source, Agent, date, 
and place of acquisition) should be further annotated: »Not 
Evidence." 
Letters should be used in connection with initiating action or 
ceasing action to obtain publications desired by the Bureau; to 
call to the attention of the Bureau ~pecitic items of information 
connected with these publications; and in those instances in 
which good judgment· dictates that certain circumstances or 
information should be recorded in letter form. 
Each SAC and each legal attache must keep the Bureau, attention 
Central Research(Unit,)informed on a current basis regarding 
publications (including books} of potential interest that are 
not included in the current list of publications which is 
supplied periodically to the field and to the legal attaches. 
These publications would include those published by subjects 
of security or counterintelligence investigations and publications 
which may otherwise have a security or counterintelligence 
significance. 
Each SAC and each legal attache should insure that the handling 
of publications for which his office is responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. Subscriptions to these 
publications should be followed closely to insure that the 
publicattons are received at the Bureau on a curren·t basis. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication in sufficient time to enable the 
Bureau to determine the necessity for renewal. 
5a 
10-28-63 
• NW..38.32.LDocld:32:989529 Page 32:Z 
( 
