14-00000 
.. 
• • -~/!fNC.e. ,3er._;~,:L"'l° t'¼f-::> ~ 
REPOH'l' ON v lSIT. OF FOREIGN scn~NTISTS, QCTQbrJl .4, 19Zl ~ > J 1 h • • 
-
Dr. Alexei A. Moiseev; Central Inst. for Advanced Medical Studies, Moscow 
~ 
Dr. Jean-Claude Nenot; CEA, Centre D'Etudes Nuclaires, Fontenay-aux-
Roses, France. 
Dr. R. Masse,; CEA as above. · 
Hrs. Anna, Low-Beer picked up the .four guests in Sm Francisco and brought 
them to the Donner Laboratory where ·t.hey were greeted by Dr. John Lawrence. 
Ors. Donald Van Dyke, James MoRae, and How~rd Parker took them on a short 
tour or the Anger camera facility and whole-body counting and scanning 
equipment. The current uses and potential in medical diagnosis were dis­
cussed. Major questions concerned the use of these instruments in monit­
oring and assessing the extent or persons contaminated with radionuclides 
in industrial accidents. 
Lunch was attended by Dr. Hardin Jones, the four {,'Uests, • Ors. Van D-Jke and 
l1arker, and Dr. Patricia Durbin, who acted as hostess Md guide thrcur,h 
the day. Topics discussed at lunch were centered about the Transuranium 
symposium~ The e!!icacy of two new techniques to remove lung contamina­
tion by .. alpha-emitt.ing isotopes, K~ considered. The two techniques are 
lung lavage and aerosolized chelcll-l{ting aGents, particularly DTPA. 
A tour of Bldg. 74 followed lunch. Three of the visitors are biologists-­
Ors,: Moskal~ and Nfuiot arLph;ysicians I and Dr. Masse is a veterinarian -­
antt ifMe!frwrtfi animal experiments or the interpretation or the results 
or animal experi1nents. They were much interested in how one achieved 
and managed a "biologically clean" rodent colony, in the minimUlll mainte­
nance rabbit rooms, and tho cage-washing facilities. There was some 
discu:rn:lon about the 9O-fir-injccted monkeys, therll" cxpo::;ure levels, years 
or rollow-up, and the essential absence or biological effects at the 
_dose levels in the study. 
• A two-hour general discussion between and among the four guests and Dr. 
Durbin followed the building tour. The chief topics discussed were how 
to explain the observed differences in the metabolism of the transuranic 
elements among species. The usefulness and verifiability of models or 
human Pu metabmlism were considered at gr.eat length. New areas or re­
search in internal emitters problems were considered including the influ­
ence of age on local dose and ultimate biological end-points; the userul­
ness or common experiments with various species particularly those with 
known variations in iron metabolism, bone formation rates and liver !unc­
tion. -
