rf 
~ ~ 
:,,. 
r-:----------..... 
,, 
i 
t 
4 1 
She urged the women not to. disperse, but to join her and. - .. 
others in invading the City Council Chambers with a dem?nd 
that the JRB be allowed to speal< to the Council even though 
.they had not made previous arrangements for a place on the 
agenda that day. Some of the women were alreajy out of range 
of the public address system and did not hear this announcement 
by Wright, having already been dismissed by_ Sissons and told to 
reconvene at the Board of Education following luncheon. 
Approximately 200 of the demonstrators did enter 
the Council Chambers. T~~Y got wo_rd to the councilmen,. thr9ug1?, -
one of the staff members, -that they wished to be hearda 
A motion to allow a JRB representative to address them was .. 
put before the Council, and defeated by a vote of six to five. 
• Immediately follo1·1ing this vote, there ,-1as a unanimous vote 
that the Council adjourn. As the councilmen filed out of the 
room, Tima Tomash rushed to.the front shouting demands that -
they return, while other of the women hissed and booed the 
city legislators. 
Duri:pg the noon hour some of' the women distributed. 
leaflets in the City Hall and on the surrou_~ding streets· in 
the dm·mtown Civic Center. 
At 1 :00 PM, the wonfen, whose m.unbers had by .that 
time been reduced to 125, massed in the patio of the. Los . - . -. 
Angeles City Board of Education, 450 North Grand Avenue, 
.Los .. Angeles.. Sis sons, Wr.ight and Tomash addressed-the --- -
assembled demonstrators, pointing out that money spent in 
Vietnam could be better spent in education. Wright claimed 
that many of the so-called student "drop-outs II are in reality 
11push-outs
11
, clai;;-i_ing that she herself -..·,as one of the latter .. 
She said, 11We need books, not bor.-ibs. We kno~·l this is a racist 
war and we blacks are not going to fight -a racist war 11-;· ·.She.'• •·. ~ 
-indicated that rather·than fight overseas, the black people 
would remain at home and fight the racists. She also said., 
11Just because I rm pro-black doesn t t necessarily mean It m anti-
white." . . • 
Wright said, "I 1m not political, but I am honest. I 
cantt honestly get up and say the pledge of allegiance to the 
. American flag, because I really don't have liberty and· 4iustice; 
so I just get up and stand and won't repeat the pledge. ' 
Lq.ter, when she observed a photograph of President Johnson 
hanging from-a wall in the Administration Building at the 
Los Angeles City :aoard of Education, she told the JRB ,-1om.e:r;1 
with her, "We shouldn't have to look at such pornographic II 
pictures .. 
Dodd:32989544 Page 3-BJ 
