13-00000 
09/16¢98 WED 13:02 FAX 202 724 04?7 ARRB 
·.·: ··::::·: . 
DRAFT 
-4-
Collection. These NBR materials are: certain files contained within the CIA­
HSCA sequestered collection; certain CIA work files relating to Yuri Nosenko 
(but not related to the assassination);2 certain materials within the Russ Hdlmes 
Collection; and the complete version of certain records, portions of which were 
designated as assassination-related by the Review Board in connection with'its 
requests for additional records and information. These hard copy materials ·will 
be physically retained by the CIA and then forwarded to the JFK Collection for:.~ 
public release by October 26, 2017. Within two months of the execution of this 
agreement, the CIA shall provide to NARA, in writing, a list of the bardcopy: files 
being retained until 2017 and confirm the arrangements for securing this 
material NARA shall have the right to inspect and inventory this material for 
archival and administrative purposes before 2017, and these materials~~all be 
made available for inspection by NARA upon its request. " .~ j 
6. The CIA shall cooperate and coordinate with NARA in carrying out the 
provisions of the JFK Act, including Section S(g) of the JFK Act, which provides 
for the "periodic review" of postponed assassination records. Such review "shall 
address the public disclosure of additional assassination records in the Collection 
under the standards of the Act" (§ 5(g)(2) (A)) and "shall serve to downgrade 
and declassifiy security classified information" (§ 5(g)(2)(C)). 
7. The CIA recognizes that, in the year 2017, "[e]ach assassination record shallbe 
publicly disclosed in full ... .'' JFK Act § 5 (g). To the extent that records are 
postponed but are to be released on a date prior to 2017, NARA shall release the 
records on the date the Review Board set for release. If the CIA seeks continued 
postponement of any record in the year 2017 (or an earlier scheduled release 
date), it will be incumbent upon the CIA to obtain from the President 
"certification" that continued postponement is necessary. See JFK Act§ 
5(g)(2)(0). Within six months of the scheduled release date, the CIA shall be 
responsible for notifying NARA of any specifc records, including any records 
within the microfilm rolls for the CIA-HSCA sequestered collection, for which it 
will seekPresidential certification of continued postponement. 
With respect to the NBR material identified in paragraph 5, these NBR materials 
shall be physically transferre_d to NARA by October 26, 2017 for release. In the 
event CIA seeks further postponement of any NBR material, it shall identify that 
material to NARA and seek Presidential certification that the material needs to 
be postponed. • 
2 The Nosenko materials related to the assassination have been placed in the JFK 
Collection. 
lg! 007 
