13-00000 
MAR 31 '':ll 12:05PM P.5 
8. We have seen DDP monthly operational reports which contain information on the 
allocation/ distribution of operational funds. Are there other DDP records which would 
reflect how certain projects utilized their funding? How are these records organized? • 
How should a search query be framed? • 
9. Various open sources have linked the CIA to various journalists and publishing 
companies during the 1960's. How should a query be framed to search for connections 
between the Agency and journalists or publishing companies? 
10. Did the Agency have any relationship, projects, or contacts with publishing houses 
during the time of the assassination and in the aftermath of the Warren Commission? 
How would a search be formulated to determine whether or not the Agency had a 
relationship with any of the same publishing houses that were also publishing books 
about the assusination? 
11. How would a query be framed .to search for files on any office or person dealing 
with organbed crime and Cuba? How should a request be formulated to institute a 
reasonable search on this topic? 
12. Is there a comprehensive record or list detailing the identities of individuals on the 
lnteragency Source Register? How are these records organized? How can a search 
query be framed to asarlain whether or not a particular individualappears In the 
Register. 
13. How c:ould a search query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular 
hulivldual was given access to classified information by DCD (then 00)? What kind of 
files are assembled in the process of clearing non-Agency contacts/sources for access to 
classified information? 
14. ARRB's Request for Additional Information and Record No. CIA-13, dated 
November 1, 1996, contained the following questions: 
A. What forms of bac:kchannel communications were there between the 
Mexico City Station (including the COS), JMWA VE, or Headquarters 
during 1963? By ''backchannel" we mean, inter alia, any administrative, 
senior staff, or restricted access communications, or any written or 
electronic communications other than regular cables or dispatches (of the 
type included in the JFI< Collection). 
B. Were there, in fact, any backchannel communications between the Mexico 
Clty Station (including the COS), JMW A VE, or Headquarters during the 
time periods 27 Sept - 16 Oct 1963 and 22 Nov - 30 Nov 1963? 
2 
