13-00000 
MEMORANDUM 
August 5, 1997 
To: 
From: 
Subject: 
T. Jeremy Gunn 
Michelle Combs 
Yuriy lvan:ovich Nosenko 
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO 
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR 
~&• FASE OF THIS DOCUMENT 
I have prepared this memorandum at you~ request for the upcoming meeting where the 
Board will be briefed on issues related to the Soviet defector, Yuriy Nosenko. 
Summary and Recommendation 
The information on Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko contained in the CIA Sequestered 
Collection microfilm consists of approximately 3500 pages of interviews, transcripts, 
memos, and reports. Of the total, approximately 1200 have been released to the public 
as open in full or with only minor redactions. Of the 1200 released pages, roughly 800 
contain information directly relevant to Lee Harvey Oswald and the Kennedy 
assassination. 
After my review of the Nosenko records and our discussion of the issues; it is our 
judgment that the remaining 2300 pages are unrelated to the assassination of President 
Kennedy and we recommend that they be processed as "NBR." These NBR records 
consist of such items as general family and professional contact information, Soviet 
. intelligence methodology and operations, and Soviet navy information dating to 
Nosenko's early career in Soviet Naval Intelligence. I suggest that we review carefully 
these 2300 records to ensure that there is no assassination-related material, and, to the 
extent this is correct, we should process them as "NBRs." 
Background on Nosenko 
KGB Lieutenant Colonel Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko first secretly contacted the CIA in 
Geneva in June 1962. One and a half years later on February 4, 1964, he defected to the 
United States for what he said were ideological reasons. His case became the single 
most difficult counterintelligence case in the Agency's history to date. Nosenko's 
information on the assassination of President Kennedy made his bona fides of more 
importance than simply a means to determine his true identity or whether he was the 
prototype of a KGB disinformation plot against Western intelligence agencies. 
The conflict over Nosenko began two and a half years prior to his actual defection, in 
