87D 
. [ 
NW Docld:32989529 
87. 
i 
SECURITY INVT~S'fIG:\Ti.,. 
Thus, in discharglhf our basic responsibilities in the internal 
security ficlrl, it i:. impel'a:ti ve that inforr;;:tt:i.on co1tccrnin[; meinbers 
of the military sci·vioer- be 1·eferred imrne<liately to t1io anpro- • 
priatc br~nnh having primary responsibility for itc personnel. 
This procedure is mandatory, even though the sec.u:t-ity aspects of 
, the <la.ta h4'.ve not been fully resolved or ve.rified. It should 
be specifically pointed out in such instances that the infor­
mation has not been verified. 
Section 87D 5b of this manual instructs that if it is determined 
a s·ecurity subject is a member of the a-rmed services the inYosti­
gation must at that point be discontinued immediately ·n_.nd reported 
to the Bureau. The basis for such instruction 1 ies i H the fact 
that the subject is no longer within our investigative juris-· 
di::tion. In addition., dissemination of pertinent· reports must 
be made locally in the field to the appropriate intelligence 
agency. 
·our responsibility with regard to military per&.onncl :fs not con­
fined to tho3e who have been the subjects of security investi­
gations. It extends to any subversive derogatory data developed 
against a member of the armed services during any of our invest:i­
gations of either individuals or organizations. For instance, 
if it is determined that a member of the armed forces has been 
in contact with a.sE:curity subject or with any ind:i,vidual ·or group 
raising security implications, tho appropriate inielligencc 
service should be immediately adv-i'sed locally. This should be 
done even though the security aspec~s of the contact have not been 
resolved., so t.hat the military services may be i-li a position to dis­
charge their .responsibilitieso It must be pointed out to them 
specifically in such instances that the data are unverified~ 
and pertinent developments must be transmitted to them thereafter 
-immediately upon receipto 
Section 87D 6b (1} (h) provides that during the course of s·ccuri t.y 
investigations it must be dt?termined whether the subjects have 
any close relatives i'n the armed forces·. Our responsibilities 
require that such ass9ciations be called to the attention of the 
·appropriate military intelligence services, together with per­
tinent data, includin·g reports, on the security subjects invol-irerl. 
The evaluation of these associations lies entirely wi·thin the 
province of the intelligence services$ but for tne reasons stated 
previously herein it is incumbent u~on the Bureau to disseminate 
this information im."Iledia.te:ly upon· receipt., 
.Any subversive contacts or information developed concerning 
m:i,litary personnel must be set out in a letter to the Bureau, 
together with a statement as to t11e local disseminat5.on made in 
the field., Such· letter should be accompanied ·hy afletterhead] 
1!1emorandum setting out yd th particularity the subversive data 
in __ a form entirely suitable for dissemination. 
£09 82 
:~~ . . .. 
~ r~ ,., 
~" ,-~. 
