) 
) 
On 2 November 1966, Wiley submitted a report on 
Edward Scannel Butler who was in New York on 26 October 
1966 to review a documentary film he had produced about 
Castro. Apparently Butler had a radio debate with Lee 
Harvey Oswald just prior to President Kennedy's 
assassination. 
In late 1966 or early 1967, Wiley submitted a number 
of public brochures distributed attendant to the production 
of the films, "Troublemakers," "Mass," etc. 
In early 1967, Wiley prepared a report concerning 
Vladimir G. and Emma Treml based on a personal letter; 
and concurrently a report on Dr. and Mrs. Ivan D. London. 
Circa November 1966, Wiley prepared a report con­
cerning a recent trip to Chicago and Milwaukee indicating 
some individuals he contacted. Wiley captioned the report, 
"Attempts to Stop Recruiting on College Campuses, (II)." 
In late 1966, Wiley prepared a report on information 
he received from Lyle Munson on 30 November 1966 concerning 
a former CIA man (William Cornielson) connected with Dow 
r,-.-T'n.;,_..,l(""' ('~TMi,.....")T"'t'\T ·...., ________ ..,._ __ . ·---~-~r·'-.:.-; • 
Sometime before 2 December 1966, Wiley prepared a 
report which he captioned, "Attempts to Stop Recruiting Gn 
College Campuses." Wiley leads off the report with the 
statement, "Under the cover of investigating a leftist 
campaign to drive U. S. Government spokesmen and recruiters 
for government agencies from the colleges, I talked over the 
situation with those listed below, the following report 
is based on the combined thinking of all. (Those inter­
viewed: former Rep. Donald Bruce, Don Appel of HCUA, 
Bill i~vrye of Senate Internal Security Subcommittee, 
a number of Young Americans for Freedom leaders, Paul 
Brehhah of the New York City Police, Peter McEleney of 
the New York State Police~ Ruth Matthews, Herbert Larson 
of the N.Y.C. FBI Office, Herbert Romerstein and Henry 
Durkin." Attendant to this report, Wiley submitted a 
report captioned, "Primary Conclusions Re: Investigation 
0£ Anti-Recruiting Drive on College Campuses." 
- 58 -
GiA 
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 46 
