.,. & ••• 
... 2-4-AP-R-i972 
Foreitn Su.rt ·for Activities Plann. to Disrup~ 
or Harass the Republican. National Convention 
SUM.:-iARY: 
There is little new ~vidence of foreign plans.or efforts 
to inspire, support, or take advantage of actions designed to 
disrupt or harass the Republican Nitional Convention in San 
Diego, 21 to 23.August 1972. The Students for a Democratic 
Society, in joining the ranks of domestic groups planning 
• act.ions at the Republican Convcn t ion, has adopted a proposal 
to cooperate with Mexican wdrkcrs and students in a dcrnons~ra­
tion in Tijuana, Mexico, during the Convention. The San Diego 
Convention Coalition (SDCC), another do~estic group targ~tting 
on the Coijvcntion, has received a letter of solidarity froin 
the North Vietnamese. The letter is of interest as an indica­
ti6n of North Vietnamese contact·with the SDCC; such contact • 
will be required for tl1e SDCC to implement its carlier-rc~ortcd 
plans for broadcasts over public address systems during the· 
-Convention of live telephone calls from the Vietnamese in 
Paris. 
DEVELOP:,IF.~TS: 
. At its recent convention in Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
held 30 March to 2 April 1972, the Students for a Denocr~tic 
Society (SDS) adopted a proposal to hold dc □ onstrations at 
the San Diego-Tijuana border during the Republican ~ational 
Convention. The proposal included a call for SDS ·to coopcrn~e 
with Mexican workers and students in a11 action to occur during 
a fiesta in Tijuana, where Convention delegates will be 
entertained. 
The North Vie~na □ cse have given their endorsement to 
the San Diego Convention Coalition (SDCC) in the form of a 
letter from the Vietnam Committee for Solidarity with the 
• American People (VCS1'.'AP), a quasi-official organ of the 
North Vietnanese Government. The letter, which has been 
circulated by the SDCC and is dated ·27 January 1972, 
• •expresses "great delight" with the formation of the SDCC, 
and conveys the Committee's ''best wishes of militant soli­
darity and friendship." The VCSW.-\P requcst.s th·at the SDCC 
write often and "send tis materials you have.n 
' 
00 
r--r--., .. "\ ......... 
'-.Jt...J{..,v 
NW 38296 Docld:32989ti-24 Page 150 
