-------- ---- .-- --------
---- -·--------
_,..---..._ 
n 
February 8, 1960 
INDUSTRIAL 
1
SECURITY PROGRAM 
On February 2, 1960, the House passed H.R. 8121, 
introduced by Mr. Walter, which would authori2e the Secretary 
of Defense to establish a program for screening employees 
o/ private contractors for access to classified information. 
The bill states that procedures prescribed by Defense shall 
be designed to protect /rom dis closure all i nforma.ti on which, 
in the opinion of the Secretary of Defense, would affect the 
natjonal security, safety, or public interest or would tend 
to compromise .investigative sources or investigative methods. 
The bill has been referred to the Senate Committee on the 
Judiciary and, if passed, would permi~ Defense to reinstitute 
the same program which was in effect at·the time of the 
Supreme Court decision in the Greene Case·. Defenae could, 
however, institute a·new program offering a maximum of con­
frontation while protecting sources or techniques in accordance 
with the terms of :the bill~-
On February 5, 1960, Assistant Attorney General Yeagley 
forwarded a new draft of the proposed Exe cu ti ve Order in th is 
matter and stated it was the result of meetings with the Attorney 
General and the White House and that he hoped that it would 
be the final draft. This ~raft introduced four· major changes. 
The first· of these would permit use of information 
from a so-called "casual" informant without confrontation if the 
i nfor;nant could not_ appear 
1
due to death, severe illness, or 
some o:t,her cause ,determ,ined by the heqd of the depar-tme nt to 
be 900d and su.f/icient. The underlined words have been added 
and would considerably broaden the circumstances under which 
_ information from such a source might·be usei. 
) 
A second change, however, would require that when 
an exception to confrontation was granted in the case of death 
or severe i-J.lness, as indicated above, 'the identity of the 
source be disclosed to the applicant. This requirement would 
apply only•in the case of death or severe illness and would not 
apply to the new exception discussed in the previous paragraph. 
We have repeatedly told the Department that we must respect the 
