13-00000 
4. The Agency has made available to the HSCA two studies conducted 
in 1967 and 1963 by SE Diyision. both of which questioned Nosenko's • 
bona fides. A subsequent study by the Office of Security in 1968 has also 
been made available; it reached a conclusion contrary to the preceding 
studies and supports Nosenko's bona fides. Other Soviet defectors have been 
interviewed by the HSCA staff. as well as knowledgeable CIA officers and 
retirees. As a result. much of the information on the case has' been 
revealed to the· Committee. • • 
5. The two SE Division studies. concluding that Nosenko ,vas a KGB 
agent. were superceded by the Office of Security study. which prevailed. 
The HSCA investigators reportedly ha~e problems with how the earlier t\vo 
studies could be rejected so shortly afier their completi.on. As. a result. 
the HSCA seems focused on the issues as viewed at that time. The Hart 
report has the advantage of having been prepared after a ten year period. 
during which experience with the validity of Nosenko's information provides 
the basis for an objective re-examination. It is relevant to HSCA interests 
that the Hart Report constitutes a convincing statement of the bona fides 
of Nosenko. Access to this portion of the Hart Report would help broaden 
an4 complete the understanding_ of the HSCA of the matter •. · 
6. Bec·ause of the above, the Agency has everything to gain and nothing 
to lose in providing the Hart Report for its review of the issue of Nosenko's 
bona .fides ~ 
II 
7. In adc:lition to the central issue of Nosertko's bona fides, Chairman 
Stokes has expressed interest in the treatment accorded Nosenko during the 
period that his bona fides were in question. Nosenko reportedly has provided 
the HSCA with some detail on this. We have made the point that how . 
Nosenko was treated was a result of the issue. not a part of it. \Vhen we 
questioned the relevance of this line of inquiry to the HSCA charter. 
HSCA staff representatives assert that their charter extends to the conduct 
of the intelligence agencies in the \Varren Commission inquiry which 
includes this. The rationale appears a bit contrived and stretched in terms 
of the real issues. How Nosenko was treated may indicate how concerned . 
CIA was with the man's bona fides, but so far as relating further to the 
inquiry concerning President Kennedy's assassination. it seems marginal at 
best. The rationale is so far.-:fetched that we have been led to consider that its 
dramatic qualities are attractive for the projected TV spectacular this 
coming September. It also doubtless provides an opportunity for public 
criticism for those staff members who have been acknowledged by Mr. 
Blakey as hostile to the Agency. 
2 
~cr'oc, 
01 G.tt ! 
