1070. S SECTION 107 • SECURITY INFORMANTS[.AND CONF]J)EN"TI.AL SOURCES] 
Be alert to the possibi!ies of former in~ormant bei.ng '°ntacted by 
representatives of publicity media and a.s a witness by congressional 
committees, INS, and state authorities. It will be the S.AC's respon­
sibility to know when a former informant is scheduled or is likely to 
appear at a hearing or make a public appearance of any kind. Prior 
thereto in each instance, former informant must be contacted and instruc­
tions above set forth reiterated by Agent who handled the informant. 
Emphasize to former informant that he must stick to the truth- and make 
certain he can back up what he says, and if there is any deviation he 
will be subjected to harassment, criticism, possible libel, slander, or 
other criminal ac·tions. If he inquires as to whether he should appear 
or testify or otherwise cooperate with ~ny public or private individual 
or agency, advise him he must make that decision himself, but if he has 
appeared as a Government witness in a case which has not been finaily 
adjudicated and decides in the affirmative, he should contact the USA 
for instructions~ Advise Bureau of any such situations and the results 
of any interviews conducted. 
R. FURNISHING OF INFORMANTS TO Il1MIGRATION .AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (INS} 
1. INS conducts investigations of alien communists as required under the 
Immigration Act of 10-16-18, as amended. INS, in order to enforce this 
statute, must obtain evidence to prove that certain aliens, due to 
their membership in certain groups, are undesirable and deportable.or 
_ subject to denaturalization., 
2. Cooperate fully wit~ INS in these cases an~ mak~ effo~~s consistent" 
with your own cases and interests to make available information and 
~itnesses where possible. 
3. In this regard, if contacted by INS inquiring for informants and you· 
have a discontinued informant or one who would be of assistance to 
INS and whose loss would not affect your work, furnish ·his identity to 
the Bureau,together with your recommendat:i..on. 
4. The Bureau.will then review all of the facts concerning such informant 
and advise as to whether or not his identity may be disclosed to INS. 
50 Exercise care in recommending informants for disclosure to INS so that 
you will not find yourself without proper coverage. 
6 0 Before any informant is turned over to INS, obtain informant's per­
miss ion. 
( s. CORREC'.CIVE .ACTION[ON F.ALSE INFORMATION] 
1 0 When it is determined that an informant or ex-informant furnished false 
information while an informant, advise Bureau by airmail of complete 
factso 
2 0 Set fnrth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing 
the informant in future, such as: 11informant of known unreliabili tyr¼ 
or ninformant who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information 
in the past. tt 
3 0 Bureau will advise w~ich designation to use. Then proceed with a review 
of all data furnished by the individual and label information from him 
accordingly. 
4 0 All communications containing information from the informant which hav-e 
been disseminated to Bureau, other Bureau offices, and to outside agencies 
must be correctedo 
5 0 Identify the cases individually by title and character, together with 
dates of cornmunications containing the informationo 
6-0 If informa.tion was used in reports, corrective letters should be crystal 
cle·ar and refer to the specific report, page number, and change to be 
made. 
7 0 .Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by the 
Bureau in accordance with part II, section 4, of the Hanual of Rules 
and Regulations; corrective action should be called to the attention 
of other Bureau o1fices, outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
NW-88321 Dodd:32989529 • Page 1788 26 
) 
) 
' / 
