February 8, 19 60 · 
CRASH OF NATIONAL AIRLINES DC-SB 
• BOLIVIA, 1'lORTH CAROLINA 
JANUARY 6 j 1960 
DESTRUCTION OF AIRCRAFT OR MOTOR VEHICLES 
On January 6, I9CO, a· National Airlines DG-6B plane crashed 
at· Bolivia., North Carolina., kflling all 34 occ·upants. The body of one 
passenger)· Julian Andrew Frank., was found abou-t 20 miles j'rom the crash 
scene. Frank, a New York attorney, carried insurcnce of $997.,500 
and was reportedly engaged in fraudulent activities. , . 
Investigation at the scene. bj' the crash, including examina-tion 
of available parts oj' the plane reassembled in a 11mocr: ·up, 11 has been 
l conduc-t,ed by Civil Aeronautics Board investigators. They have been 
l unable to reach a definite conclusion as to the cause of the crash. 
Franlc 1 s body.,. which was JLf-nund near .Kure Beach, North Carolina, 
bore only remnants of clothing. The .uody was mangled and the lower 
por-cion OJ' the left arm and oj' both legs were missing. His luggage, 
) which reportedly consisted b.f a zipper-type blue .fligh_t bag and a . 
brown le a-the r a ttache case, has no -t .been located. . • 
FBI La.boratory examination oj'.Frank 1s right hand and part 
of his right arm_, foreign material removed from his hand and arm and 
. portions oJ' clothing found on his .body revealed no explosive residue. 
l
Pathologists who examined Frank's body have 6dvised that his· body 
had the appearance of having been subjected to a severe force of unusual 
nature and they believe his injuries resembled blast damage but they 
cannot definitely identify them as such. According to the pathologists, 
similar wou.nds have ;Jeen observed o_n victims oj' land mine explosions. 
PEI· Laboratory exam i na-cio n of a 1 ij'e J·acke t Jou nd at Kure Beach 
., on January 28., 1930, disclosed some nit~ate present in a dirty smeared 
deposit.· in. an area of the J·acke-;-; in which were i mbedded meta 1 fra-gme nts 
j'rom a ,--:ipper and pieces oj' blue material. Numer·ous small blue fragments 
j'rom .the life jacket and from unidentified cio;hing ~found a-t the crash 
scene were determined -to be similar and appear to correspond to -the 
material which composes blue flight bags sold by various airlines. 
1 
These findings are consistent with wha-t would be expec-i;ed as a result 
. oj' a dettonati
1
• o-n. of a higdhd-~r~er •
1
type of _e·x
1
plosiveh. :These j'jindhings h 
ate no co nc usive and a i-tiona ma-cer,.a from t e scene o • t e eras 
wi 11 be exami'n.ed as received by the FBI Laboratory in an effort to . 
reach a definite conclusion • 
... [· Extensive inves·,;igation of the activities of Frank has failed 
. to develop any direct evidence to date that he was resp·onsible for· • 
the crash. The investiga-tion of his activities and oj'. the ac'l;iuities 
of his associates is continuing. Thirty-two investigative reports haue 
been dissemi·i,.7,ted to the Department and to the Civil ueronautics Board. 
NW 
