SECRET - SENSITIVE 
TheliTP.},rogram for filing was simply that when a name was reported 
to CI staff, it was mechanically processed by personnel who exercised 
no judgment in recording the name. The names of both the Soviet and the 
' American people involved in the contact would be recorded. As a result of this 
process, the/.A:·T.i:0lfile index was able to develop a great deal of information 
on Soviet contacts with Americans. If, as a result of information obtained, 
CI staff had reason to believe that a aprticular person had been recruited 
by the Soviets, that information would be forwarded to the Office of Security 
for the Agency, if any Agency officer were involved, or to FBI, if an Americar 
outside the Agency was involved. 
Stein explained that this program was condu:: ted by CI staff instead of by 
the FBI or State, because the program might well contain information 
which would be relevant to CIA purposes, but not relevant to the purposes 
of the other Agencies. Thus, the files might well contain information 
concerning kni,wn KGB Agents, That information, in .turn could have 
derived from a sensitive source, the identity of which CIA would not want 
to have revealed. Accordingly, the information was stored by the Agency 
rather than the other possible Governmental components. · Information 
relevant to those components, however, was made'available to them[!;orri' 
. th~;jl.TP 1proj~.ctJ 
The information utilized byG:J\J:'/Jcould have been derived,as noted, from 
reports of other Governmental components or from infer mation provided 
by any American. This would be information provide.d voluntarily, either 
by a person actually having a contact with a foreign intelligence officer 
or by persons with knowledge that someone else had had such a contact. 
The information could be particularly useful, net only to the CIA, but to 
other Governmental component's. For example, the State Department's 
Office of Security might report that a State officer had had a contact over 
a long period with a Soviet. The CI staff could check all its information 
on that Soviet and confirm whether they had reason to believe that the 
Soviet was in fact an agent. 
(7ino.ther source of files on Americans held by CI staff might be the product 
,-of 'code-breaking by NSA. Thus, in reading codes, names of Americans 
may appear. Some of these may be innocuous, and some may be spies. 
:in anT event, all these names are also indexed, although the index is 
separate from ATP, because of the sensitivity of the NSA program as well 
as the' information derived therefr·o;;,l 
SECRET - SENSITIVTY 
4 
Hlf 50955 Docld:32105622 Page 5 
