14-00000 
Plans to begin public hearing on defining an assassination 
record in Sept. Anna Nelson commented on the importance of 
identifying what is a record before beginning to address 
specific issues/documents. 
William Joyce reported that he had sent letters to 55 
agencies asking about the quaintly of records still held by 
the agency and had received 20 responses several which had 
identified additional sources for documents (no specifics) 
Steve Tilley gave a briefing on status of releases. 
Releases since last meeting include tapes of telephone calls 
from the Johnson Library, the FBI files, Church Committee (7 
boxes) , and DOJ' s FOIA litigation files. This month an 
additional 10 boxes of Church Committee and some Pike 
Committee Files (only a small part deals with JFK). Expects 
a release from the CIA of approximately 70,000 pages later 
this summer (mentioned the 73 Reels). 
Tilley also described the 20,000 pages of HSCA material in 
CIA files and that NARA would be acting as House agent on 
these record. 
Questions (to Tilly) by the Board: 
Size of the NARA collection? - 1200 Cubic Feet (2500 pages 
per foot) 
(Jack) what was the number of documents with redactions? 
Steve said he could not give a figure, would guess less than 
50% 
(Graff) any problems with agencies' willingness to release 
documents -- None, considers the work be the various 
agencies as a remarkable effort to turn over records. The 
problem was the volume of material and the time it takes to 
review. 
A question about Senate and House Committee reviews 
procedures led to a discussion where it was clear that 
neither the Board nor,Tilly had a good fix on that part of 
the review. The point was made that CIA information in 
those documents (and in our HSCA material) would be reviewed 
by CIA reviewers; the originator of the information was the 
key reviewer) . 
(Jack) how were the agencies doing in defining 
"assassination records? - - Tilly described some of his 
discussions about assassination records within NARA and with 
other agencies. He mentioned that the "major agencies" had 
records that they felt fell outside the scope which they 
planned to discuss with the board. 
