) 
SECTION 10. SECURITY INFORMANTS .A.ND C,ONF.l'TIAL SOURCES 107A - B 
.A. DEFINITIONS 
1. Security informant 
Individual actively engaged in obtaining and furnishing·current infor­
mation on security mat·f;ers exclusively for Bureau and whose identity 
must be protected. Such person should b.e a member or a·l;tend meetings 
of a subversive organization, such as the Cornmun.ist Party; or be in 
such a po~ition relative to a subversive organization, or espionage 
activitic or intelligence activities in the u. s. on behalf of foreign 
principaJ that he is able to obtain and does provide current infor­
mation of value. 
2. Potential security informant 
Individual in a position to become active in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the u. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he~can be 
in a positio;ti; actively to o.bt.a.in and furnish current information to 
Bureau·. 
3. Double a-gent 
A specialized 1~•pe of security informant; a person who is cooperating 
with, receivin~ tssignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreign 
intelligence sr.:·vice and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance, 
4. Confidential so~~ce 
An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available 
to him through his present position. E:)l:amples would be: bankers, telephone 
company employees, American employees of foreign official establishments, 
employees of the United Nations Secretariat, and individuals who furnish 
trash in connection with trash covers. The~e individuals make no 
concerted effort on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain and furnish 
information readily available to them •. 
B. SOURCES OF POTENTIAL SECURITY INFORMJ..NTS 
Informants should be developed on all organizations and individuals which 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown tha·h potential 
• informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal investi­
gative apti vi ty. Live in.formant coverage depends for the most part upon 
initiative and resourcefu:!.ness of individual .Agents and S.ACs. Fo:r: assistance 
in obtaining potential informants~ the following is s~ggested: 
1. Evaluation of 
a. Complainants in security matters 
b. Persons interviewed in connection with security cases 
c. Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation of party loyalty 
d. Bureau. applicants as possible informan·f;s 
e. Personal friends and contacts of Special Agents and other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidential sources, and contacts on con­
tinuous basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
[ 3, Review of[reserve]index 
4, As certain possibilities of reacti va·Ung former confidenl;ial informants, 
5, Survey possibilities of trash covers. 
6, Revievr factionalism section of file on Communist ?arty, USA. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffection 
on the part of Commttnist Party members. They, of courso, should not be 
.informed as to the purpose of the inquiry. 
8. Review of fiJ.es on communist front organizations looking for indi -viduals 
vrho have been associated with only one o-...~ two fronts or who at·~endt!d only 
a few meetings of a front. Su.ch individuals frequently are innoce,1t of 
cor11r.rnnist propensities, yet they have a basis for oul ti vating the 
acquaintance of party members. The Progressive Party file also might 
prove a fertile field, 
3 
7-15-60 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Page 1504 
