13-00000 
. .-. li 
effective fulfillment of the duties of a member of the ARRB as 
required under the statute. 
2. • What do you consider to be your primary responsibilities and 
priorities as an ARRB member? 
As a member of the Board, I will be asked to consider whether 
a record constitutes an assassination record and whether an 
assassination record·or particular information in a r~oord 
qualifies for postponement or disclosure under the stat'1te. In 
fulfilling these responsibilities I will be required to adhere· 
faithfully to the letter and spirit of the enabling 
legislation, which carries a presumption of the immediate 
disclosure of all records relating to the assassination of 
President John F. Kennedy. My responsibility is to serve the 
public .interest in meeting this presumption with the 
understanding that some materials may pose important !.-sues of 
national security, identify a living person who proyld•d 
confidential information and would pose a risk of harm to that 
person, invade privacy to a degre~ that outweighs the public 
interest, and/or compromise a security or protective procedure 
currently employed. In these cases a decision to po~tpone the 
release of a document may be warranted. The burden in these 
instances is clearly on the agency or other entity holding the 
record to demonstrate that the presumption of release should 
be set aside. - In every instance the question must be answered 
whether the release of a document would be so harmful as to 
outweigh the public interest in releasing it under the terms 
of the statute. 
3. ·How do you envision·your relationship and responsibilities -­
as an ARRB member -- to (a) the President, (b) the Congress, 
and (c) other executive branch agencies? 
As a member of the ARRB, I recognize that my official conduct 
falls under the oversight of the Committee on Governmental. 
Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Governmental Affairs of the Senate. Board members have a 
duty to cooperate with the exercise of such oversight 
jurisdiction. At the same time, the ARRB has authority to 
direct Government offices to provide documents and related 
finding aids for assassination records and, if necessary, to 
investigate the facts surrounding additional information, 
records, or testimony from individuals which may reasonably be 
required for me to perform my duties under the statute. The 
statute creating the ARRB provides that·after it bas made a 
finding with regard to documents obtained or developed solely 
within the executive branch, the President has the sole and 
nondelegable authority to require the disclosure or 
postponement of such record or infopnation under. the 
appropriate provisions of the statute. Throughout, the statue 
clearly provides that the ARRB engaged in a mutually 
2 
