JBARGON 
DEINHAUL 
TAB D 
Disposition of Entities. Sold or Otherwise Disposed Of;~ 
I l. 
This air support propr_i etary (maintenance f aci 1 i ty) 
was sold in January 1975 to a bona fide aviation 
concern which was made witting of the Agency1 s 
ownership of the firm for purposes of the sale. 
At the time of sale, .it was agreed that JBARGON 
would continue to provide aircrift maintenance~ 
supply, and bookkeeping services to JBCHOKE, the 
former parent company of JBARGON. Since the date 
of sale, JBARGON has provided $612,000 worth of 
aircraft maintenance, supply, and bookkeeping 
services to JBCHOKE; JBCHOKE is now in the process 
of liquidation. 
This proprietary lending institution (bank) was 
established in a European country in 1955 to 
provide loans and outright grants to non-communist 
cooperatives. The proprietary was ostensibly owned 
(backstopped) by a bona fide U.S. foundation which 
was subsidized by the Agency, and the bank was 
managed by a bona fide management company on behalf 
of the Agency. By 1962 when it was determined 
that the bank had accomplished its purposes·, the 
Special Group (predecessor to the 40 Committee) 
instructed that the bank be phased out in an orderly 
manner over the next five years. Various disposal 
plans were considered over the next few years, 
and in 1965 the Agency sold the bank (through ·its 
ostensible owner--the foundation) to the firm 
which managed the bank during the period of Agency 
ownership. In payment,. the foundation accepted 
notes from the management firm, payable over a 
four year period. It was expected that the payments 
of the purchase price would come from the proceeds 
derived from the repayment of various types of 
loans made by the bank, and it was recognized that 
cert~in unsecured bank loans were of questionable 
collectibility. Accordingly, that portion of 
the purchase price which was tied· t.o the repaYTI}ent 
of these loans was subject to adjustment for litiga­
tion expenses associated with collection ·and a 20% 
collection fee. Also, this por~ion of the purchase 
price was not subject to interest on the unpaid 
balance. It wa·s also agreed that the bank would 
administer a fund of $100,000 set aside by the 
Agency for continuing grants in less than $25,000 
amounts for Agency approved activities which were 
nrr,rirJ t.:~t :;•2 "rt~\ .. 
t_1.J.t,....,;, .. 1o .... • 
1 
l 
I 
L 
L 
~ fJ!11 
~•, :' 
n . 
~-..... 
. 
' 
