(4) 
d. Key 
( 1) 
(2) 
,, 
I 
~ 
l NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
,J,,.-,..__. 
. ) 
SEt,.i:. 87. SF.GURI'.1.'Y • IUVESTIGATIOHS. 
classified contracts with the key facility.] Copies of reports 
for the Marine Corps should be dissemi~atcd locally to• ONI. 
Disseminat:i._on to the Atomic l<~ner[!y Commi~:s:i.on (AEC), Defense 
Atomic Support Agency (DASA) (formerly Armed Jl'orces Special 
Weapons Projcc·t), the Research and DeveJ.opment Board {RDB), 
and the 1"1aritime Administrat:ion (11.A) will be made a:l; the 
Bureau., and not in the field. 
Status of cases 
.After all active investigation conducted, ·place in a closed 
status. Forty-five days before report due, make case pending· 
active and check with armed services representative at the 
key facility, or with other reliable so1.1.roes, to determine 
whether subject has access to classified or restricted 
material. 
figure and top functionary program 
General 
Purpose of key figure and top functionary program is to. select 
for special attention those individuals in a subversive, 
movement who arc of outstanding importance to the effectiveness 
of the movement. 
Key figu1-e and top function?.ry program is described bel_ow as 
pertaining to the Ccmmunist Party, USA. However, it also 
applies to important individuals active in or on behalf of 
other basic revolutionary groups. • 
ICey figures 
(a) Definition _ 
A key figure is an individual, either a member or non­
member of the Communist Party or ·ot:tier basic re7olutionary 
organization, who, by reason of his official position in 
the organization or his connections wi-th the communist 
movement and his ac·l;i-vi ties on its behalf, is considered 
of sufficient importance and potential d:-~~,f.{orousness 
from an internal security standpoint to ! :!uire inL'llediate 
apprehension or detention in the event c,;:- .11 emere,ency. 
Individuals coming within the following ". :egori,es s·hall 
be considered within the definition of a key figure: 
I. National, district, and state officers and the principal 
officers oft~~ local clubs of the Communist Party 
II. The principal organizers of the Communist .Party 
III. Those communists who are exeQutive officers or ou·t­
sta.nding figures in established communist front or 
communis t-c ontr olled orga n:i.za tions, foreign: language 
groups, and·Negro organi~ations infiltrated by 
communists • 
IV. Individuals extensively engaged in communist 
inf.il tra tion of the labor moirement_, . including 
principal officers of labor orga niza. tio·ns who 
-are members of or ciosely affiliated with the 
Communist Party. In 
583 
( 
