• • 
CORPORATE COVER 
1. Central Cover Staff (CCS) is responsible for the 
placement of Agency operational personnel under the cover 
of bona f~dc U.S 0 companies abroad and in the U0 S 0 This 
process involves the selection of cbmpnnies; research on 
their locations and key personnel; clearances; contacts 
with companies to solicit coop~ration with the Agency; 
arrangements for integration of Agency personnel into tho 
companies, including letters of undorstnndjng; funding of 
sa~arios, allownncos and expense$; and, cohtinuous monitor­
ing of each integrated case throughout the course of the 
cover use. The overall oh.jcctivc is to match the indi 1:iclual 
being placed, tho company, and the location, in a manner 
that will ensure achievement of the Agency purpose and pro-: 
tcction of the c9mpany integrity. 
2. Currently, there are 191 integrces for whom cover 
is provided by 110 companies; 179 iutcgrees are located in 
47 foreign countries and 12 ~re located in the United States. 
To n!nintain this plncc::icnt lc\'<:il, CCS personnel arc re­
searching and monitoring approximately 250 to 300 companies 
at any given time. 
3. To minimize the adverse consequences to a cooperating 
company, and to preserve tho A~ency!s operational·cquity in 
the event of exposure of an individual under cover, it has 
been established policy that no more than two individuals 
would be furnished cover by the same c0:i,pany. At the present 
time this ratio is confined to approximately 25<;; of the tot.1.l 
number of companies now being used and efforts are under-
way to effect further reductions toward the goal of one 
individual per company. 
4. In addition to the primary ~orporate cover function 
described in-paragraph 1. above, CCS maintains continuing 
contact with two U 0 S O car rental firms and two U 0 S O .credit 
card firms for the purpose of obtaining backstopped credit 
cards in alias for operational use in the United States and 
abroad by Agency personnel. 42 such cards are now being 
used by 34 individuals. 
NW 38296 Docld:32989£24 Page 136 
----~---=21 .:, .. •. ? ?I.. 
, ..• 1~:: ;';i~l ~-' r.v.:: .. ! .. ! ..... u-• 
-----·--
