13-00000 
SECRET - WORKING PAPER 
Pending Issues 
As part of the change in process, Marwell wants the 
Board to focus on outstanding substantive issues as opposed 
to micro managing the review. We discussed the following: 
1) Nosenko_. ARRB staff needs to review the non-related 
material and make a recommendation to the Board. Marwell 
leans toward not treating all of Nosenko as assassination 
related. Could be a hard sell with some Board members. 
Should we request that Nosenko meet with the Board? Marwell 
thinks they would react favorably. 
2) Personnel Files. Again the first step is to have 
his staff confirm that only a part of a file is related and 
that those documents are in the released material. 
·3) ('Gibsoii). FBI file issue; we need to present case to the Board __ _ 
4) {Liy., ContinuingJ:..2__protect will be a hard sell 
given tlia~ewman_ hcis ~lis§d) identity; we need to present 
case to the Board:---· 
5) CRC Financial Files. ARRB staff needs to review 
Annual Report and Extension 
Marwell ask me to draw you attention to the Annual 
Report and the request for an extension. He would still 
like a letter from the Agency {could be addressed to him) 
along these lines: "reviewed Annual Report" 
"note that the Board has ask for extension" 
"support the request/feel it is in interest of 
Agency and public /or something along these lines" 
• Other issues {not discussed with Marwell/Gunn) 
-@~ {OGC) says CI Staff has ask Gunn to rewrite his 
notes, and opposes Gunn's suggestion to release pages from 
·the CI histories he reviewed. Gunn indicated in his notes 
that some of the pages ~hould be released ·and might be 
considered assassination records. We are going to run into 
similar problems with the other histories~ Gunn will be in 
HQ tomorrow to re-do his notes. She will-discuss the "pages 
issue" with the goal of having him drop the request to 
release. As to the question of designating the pages as 
assassination records, she,will inform him that CI will 
oppose. If he insist, she will refer back to HRG. 
SECRET 
