13-00000 
' . 
two bases of the ,Artime group, one in Costa Rica and the other in 
Nicaragua. Also it was hoped that the autonomous group under Manolo Ray 
would soon.get itself established in a working base, possibly Costa Rica. 
Mr. FitzGerald said that much could be accomplished by these autonomous 
groups once they become operational. 
A question was asked .as to what decisions remain to be made. Mr. 
FitzGerald replied that we were looking for a reaffirmation of the program 
as presented, including sabotage and harassment. When asked what was 
planned in sabotage for the innnediate future, he said that destruction 
operations should be carried out against a large oil refinery and storage 
facilities, a large electric plant, sugar refineries, railroad bridges, 
harbor facilities, and underwater demolition of docks and ships. The 
question was also raised as to whether an air strike would be effective. 
on some of these principal targets. The consensus was that CIA should 
proceed with its planning for this type of activity looking toward • 
January. 
The State Department raised questions with respect to sabotage 
activities in Cuba. The thought was advanced that there may be a 
relationship between such hit and run attacks on Cuba and the delay of 
American convoys en route to Berlin. A further question was posed as 
to the over-all importance to the United States of sabotage operations, 
especially since it is so difficult to keep them from being directly • 
·attributable to the U.S. It was thought that the hit and run type effort 
might in fact invoke loss of support inside Cuba and may even result in 
bringing more Soviet troops back into Cuba. Somehow the U.S. must pin 
responsibility f~r these activities on-Castro. The U.S. in fact must be 
ready to retaliate when it can be fairly well established that Castro is 
attempting with arms, money and men to foment Connnunist uprisings in any 
Latin American country. 
The consensus was that since CIA's sabotage operation is in the 
main low cost and since it does worry the Castro regime, denies him some 
essential connnodities ,. stimulates some sabotage inside Cuba and tends to 
improve the morale of the Cubans who would like to see Castro removed, 
CIA should proceed with those operations planned for the coming week end 
(November 15 through 17). 
The view was expressed that CIA, in connection with the Department 
of Defense, should· concentrate on attempting to catch Castro red-handed 
delivering arms to Connnunist groups in Latin American countries. It was 
determined that during the next 90 days from this date an attempt would 
be made by means of air patrols and surface ships to identify ships 
carrying arms for Castro to Latin American countries. It was hoped that 
a ship with Cuban ·arms could be picked up. Conversations are to'be 
, 
3 
