( 
(_ 
\ 
[ 
( 
( 
[ 
(7) 
(8) 
(9) 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 
,,. ... 
s· ~ION 87. Sl!:CURI'J!Y IJWl~STIGAnc 87D 
•• • in a kov facility, copies of reports bearing the dual character, 
11Secu.ri:l;y of Govc1·nmont Ernployoos; 8ecurity Hatter - C," should 
be fur.nished to appropria·Lo int0lli1~encc a.gcncies of'. tho armed 
services by the field offices as shown in sections 69, volume III, 
and 87D 7e (2), of this manual. [For instructio~s regarding • 
di3aemination to the Defense Industrial Security Clearance 
Office, Defense Supply Agency, Columbus, Ohio, see 87D •·c (3), 
of this manual.] • 
Specific instructions with regard to all phBscs of our responsi­
bilit:i.es uncter Executive Order 10450, including policy, iirV"esti­
gative proced~~os, and dissemination are set out in sec~ion 69, 
volume III, of this manual. 
Indi vidu::ils v1ho own property or re side in the immediate vicinity. 
of an installation or other premises under the cognizance of a 
branch of the armed Gervices 
Dissemination should be made locally to ·the intelligence service 
of the m~litary branch involved. 
Airmen issued certificates by Federal Aviation Agency 
Federal Aviation llgency issues certificates to airmen who are 
defined as persons in command or acting as pilot, mechanic, or 
member of the crew in the navigation of aircraft while·under 
wav: inclividuals dirently in cnar~e ,of the inspection, ma.inte­
nancP- 1 overhauling, ·or· repair of aircraft, a1rcraf·t engines.· 
propellers,. or appl;i.a.ncer.; a.nd any individu?.l serving in -!;he 
capacity of aircraft dispatcher or air-traffic control t~wer 
operator. Subversive data develop~d concerning persons within 
such definitions should be furnished to the Bureau by report or 
letterhead memorandum suitable for dissemination, together· with 
cover communication recommending that such data be furnished 
to Fed"draf .Aviat-ion Agency., Such dissemination will be made 
onl v at the Bureau·. 
Security index - dissemination of information to Secret Service 
Under the agreement between the Bureau and the Secret Service 
concerning ·Presidential protection dated -2-3-65, which is· set 
out in its entirety in section 102, volume IV, of this manual, 
reports a~e to be disseminated henceforth to Secret Service 
in all security index cases, An extra copy of the report in 
these cases should be furni~hed the Bureau, At the time the 
agreemeht was entered into,· J~tterhead memor~nda in all security 
index cases had b~en dissemi~ ~ed to Secret Sdrvice, Therefore, 
prior reports in these cases ~ill not b~ disseminated; 
u·naer the terms of the· agreement," it is essential to advi;e 
Secret Service of the reason or reasons for referral - statement 
of the class or classes in appendix Ii of the agreement vrhich 
the individual referred fits. For this purpose utilize form 
FD-376, which is des:igned to serve as a letter of transmittal 
for both local dissem:i..nation and dissemiml."tion at the SOG. 
The or·igina.l and one· copy of this f·orm should be forv1arded to 
the ijureau •. A c~py is to be maintained in the main-case file 
and upon transferral of office of origin in any case, the new 
office of origin is to be furnished a copy, Careful consider-· 
ati·on must be given to insure that· the individual is .propez:ly 
categorized. In the case of subject-being recommende.d for the 
security index~ withhold dissemination pending Bureau approval 
of his security index status; forward FD-376 as in any other 
case. 
In the c~se of individual subject of prior investigation who 
is currently being r1::commended for the security index, d·o net 
disseminate prior reports. Howe~er, prepare a letterhea~ . 
memorandum including pertinent information pre,iously de,elouea 
• which should be disseminated to Secret Service, ~ogether wit~ . 
the current report. Copies of this letterhead memorandum 
should be forwarded to the Bureau for dissemination at head­
quarters level. 
584 
81 
10-13-65 
