NW 
.INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION 
1. Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 (Public· Law 
86-257) • 
. The new labor law, as above, became effective up9n its signing 
by the President on September 14, 1959. • 
.The language in the A~t conferred authority upon the Secretary of 
Labor to conduct investigations of the majority of the provisions contained 
in the law. Authority was also granted to the Secretary of Labor to enter 
into agreements with other agencies to handle investigations. 
rJie Criminal Division of the Department of Justice during September,: 
1959, has held conferences with officials of the Department of Labor for the 
purpose of arriving at an agreement to be signed by the Departments of Justice 
and Labor specifying those criminal provisions of the law, as· well as the 
prohibition against a member of the Communist Party holding office in a 
labor union, which the FBI will investigate. 
Preliminary_ conferences indicate investigative jurisdiction of the 
following violations will be conferred upon the Bureau:. . 
_. Embezzlement of union funds; payment by an employer of a fine 
imposed upon a labor union officer; prohibition against communists and 
. convicted felons holding union office; picketing for extortion purposes; • 
.deprivation by force or violence of rights of union members; and retention by 
FBI of an· amendment in the Act broadening the_Labor-Management Relations 
Act of 1947 e 
The finalizing· of the agreement between the Departments· of Justice 
and Labor has not been effected. Until it is, we are not initiating investi­
gations without a specific request from the Department of Justice. 
We have, however, received 85 specificrrequests from the Criminal 
• Division to determine whether certain convicted felons are holding office at . 
this time in labor unions in violation of that section of the Act (Section 504). 
-
VJ.e have also received 52 names of individuals who are reportedly • 
labor union officials, from the Department, requesting a check of Bureau and • 
Identification Division files. Eighteen such name checks have been .completed. 
These were highly placed Teamster officials and trustees. We_ are not 
processing the remaining 34 names until the Department provides us with 
further identifying data as to the individuals. 
-3-
