13-00000 
penetration, whill? clearly fortuitous, are not unique in clandestine operations. , 
In 1964, it was learned that the American ernbassy 1 n Moscow had been thoroughly 2--
bugged by the KGB. Scores of Soviet audio devices \'/ere found throughout the .3 
building. Counterespionage and security specialists detennined that the 'f 
equipment had been installed in 1952 when the embassy had been renovated, and 
. . 
that the bugs had been operational for roughly twelve years. The d-a1nge report 
asserted that during·this entire period -- at the height of the cold war --
l, 
7 
. r 
Soviet ibtel 1 igence had probably intercepted every diplomatic cable between .>r 
Washington and the embassy. [h1s assessme~t was based on the discovery of~ 
audio devices in the code room which w,ial d Lw allowed the Soviets to hear ' t 
distinctly the sounds being maded by the typewriters and cryptographic equipment. 
It was a reasonably easy technological feat -- wel 1 within Soviet capabili,ties -­
to ·translate such sounds into their true alphabetical mean.1ng. 
American suspicions about the Soviet eavesdropping were apparently aroused 1~ 
early in 1964 when Soviet leader Khrusbchev made a remark to Ambassador ;:,a,y...F~ 
Kohler about Kbbler1 s role in b0ocking the shipment to the Soviet Union of 
steel for an important popeline. Taken in context, Khrushchev's remark indicated 
to Kohler that there was a leak somewhere in American security. Kohler started 
a massive investigation, and within a month or two, forty-odd bugs were found 
embedded in walls throughout the embassy. Although Kohler would later claim 
there was no connection between the discovery of the bugs and the investigation 
he ordered after his conversation with Khrushchev, the timing would seaa to 
indicate otherwise. 
lJ.n _any case,· the official damage report concluded that for those b1elve @-
crucial years at the height of the Col~ Har, the Soviets almost certainly knew 
every diplomatic secret which was communicated between the American embassy in 
Moscow and Washington, The damage report noted, however, that this Soviet 
knowledge may well have worked to the advantage of the United States at least 
l 
.... i; 
in one instance in 1953 when the Korean Har annistice was being negotiated. At :~ 
the time, U.S. bargaining position with the Horth Koreans was that i'f a oartkulnr:] 
