13-00000 
was·In,tertel that !Tr hired in 1972 to snoop on col­
'umnist Jack Anderson. 
The latest and possibly most damaging charge in 
the Resorts International battle came in June 1972 
in an IRS inspired indictment of Meyer Lansky and 
. Dino Cellini. The indictment reads in part: 
On or about May 17, 1968, unindicted co-conspira­
tor Vincent Teresa met with defendants Meyer Lan­
sky and Dino Cellini in Miami and had a discus­
sion wherein defendants Lansky and Cellini gave 
Teresa permission to conduct gambling junkets to 
the Paradise Island Casino. 
Thus government agents allege that in 1968 Lan­
sky maintained at least some control in running jun­
kets to Resorts International's Paradise Island Cas­
ino. The Junket racket is an integral part of the 
casino operation, and as recen.tly as 1971 Lansky's 
~ Eddie Cellini was reportedly still arranging 
Junliets for the Paradise Island Casino. 
\ Enter Nixon and Rebozo 
It was in 1967 - with Lansky still okaying jun­
kets and Cellini still running the Paradise Island 
Casino - that Richard Nixon and Bebe Rebozo became 
friends with the head of Resorts International. 
It should be no surprise that James Golden, the 
recently Cl %9) hired "deputy di rector of security" 
for Resorts International is a good friend of Nix­
on's. As a Secret Service guard for Nixon when he 
was Vice President, Golden made a good enough im­
pression to be appointed staff security chief for 
Nixon in 1968. Golden was also security director 
of Nixon's convention headquarters in Miami that 
year, and was security director for his subsequent 
inauguration. Later that year he moved to Resorts 
International. Golden is just one of a long string 
of interesting Nixon security appointees, among 
them Watergate indictees James McCord, Gordon Liddy, 
and Howard Hunt. 
There are rumors, some of which have been aired 
in the press, that Richard Nixon owns stock in Re­
sorts International. Former Republican Presidential 
candidate Thomas E. Dewey does own stock in the com­
pany, and, according to organized ·crime investigator 
Hank Messick among others, there are reports of Lan­
sky buying stock as well. Nobody has proved any­
thing one way or another about the stock connec­
tions, but that Nixon is connected to Resorts Inter­
national, at least through Golden, is indisputable. 
Perhaps more disquieting than rumors of Nixon 
stock ownership in an underworld holding company for 
Bahamian casinos are the reports of his meddling in 
Bahamian affairs. In 1969 a proposed tax increase 
on gambling profits to provide money for Bahamian 
schools was slashed in half by the Minister of Fi­
nance. The Minister. refused to explain the cut, 
and told opposition members to "use your imagina­
tion" for an explanation. 
The advice was taken literally by some Bahamian 
papers who speculated that pressure came from "out­
side sources connected with casinos". One Bahamian 
paper asked openly if "a telephone call from the 
White House was not responsible?" 
Whereas our investigation into Cuban politics 
brought evidence to light possible violations of the 
Neutrality Act, we now have the possibility of an 
American President who has spent a significant 
amount of his vacation time in the Bahamas also med­
dling in the affairs of that country. 
Richard Nixon, a man with both visible and invis­
ible links to the underworld and politics of pre­
Castro Cuba, turns up in the Bahamas with very s1m1-
lar links, bringing some big names along with him. 
Enter William Rogers 
Two men with histories both in Bahamian politics 
and in the finances of organized crime have made 
frequent use of the legal services of a firm whose 
most prominent partner is Richard Nixon's old friend 
William P. Rogers, one-time Secretary of State. 
The two men are Mike McLaney, charged by the 
Royal Commission in 1967, and a business cohort of 
his named William Colusardo. McLaney and Colusardo 
were investigated in 1967 by the Securities and Ex­
change Commission in connection with a blueberry 
plantation that McLaney sold to a company controlled 
by Colusardo. The subsequent corporate jugglings 
implicated (among others) newly elected Bahamian 
Premier Lyndon Pindling. Among Colusardo 's "favors" 
for Pindling were the use of his airplane during the 
election campaign, and a $127,000 contribution in 
the form of an "interest payment". The law firm 
that defended McLaney and Colusardo against the SEC 
was that of William ·p. Rogers. ·Rogers had been a 
close friend and political associate of Nixon's for 
twenty-five years. He accompanied Nixon on many of 
his Bahamian jaunts and also made frequent stops 
with him at the Key Biscayne Inn and Villas. In ad­
dition to being an "R & R" sidekick, Rogers was the 
man Nixon turned to for counsel amidst his personal 
crises in the Checkers affair and Eisenhower's seri­
ous heart attack. 
Rogers served the Eisenhower/Nixon team for eight 
years in the Department of Justice, first as Deputy 
Attorney General, and then, by 1957, as Attorney 
General. The Justice Department's record against 
organized crime in the years following the Kefauver 
Commission was lackluster, to say the least. It was 
Rogers who personally rejected the recommendations 
of the specially constituted Wessell Committee on 
organized crime set up in the wake of the infamous 
Appalachian raid in upstate New York that revealed 
a Mafia summit conference. The Committee's propos­
als for a concentrated and coordinated war on or­
ganized crime were only implemented some years later 
by Attorney General Robert Kennedy. 
A footnote ·in the Justice Department files was a 
report by IRS Special- Agent Josph Delfine, dated Oc­
tober 19, 1953. The IRS recommended to the Justice 
Department that "criminal proceedings be instituted 
against Meyer Lansky in the Southern Judicial Dis­
trict of New York for the willful attempt to defeat 
and evade a large portion of his income taxes for 
the years 1945 and 1947 under section 145b of the 
Internal Revenue Code". The Justice Department -
with William Rogers second in command at the time -
respectfully decl i n_ed to prosecute. 
Lums Hot Dogs 
Upon leaving his post as Attorney General in 
1960, Rogers became a member of the New York firm of 
Royal, Koegel and Wells. In 1969, with its leading 
partner about to become Secretary of State, Royal, 
etc. moved with its clients wholeheartediy into the 
world of gambling casinos and organized crime. 
A year later Royal took on the account of the 
Miami-based hot dog chain, Lums Inc. What did a hot 
dog chain have to offer a prestigious New York law 
firm? The answer may lie in where the firm took its 
client. 
