MEMORANDUM 
TO: 
FROM: 
DATE: 
SUBJ: 
Background 
·' 
lfX}l~lEF 
', ' 
'' 
' 
Senator Hart (Colorado) and Senator Schkeiker 
Jim Johnston 
Dan Dwyer 
Ed Greissing 
January 2 7, 1976 
Connection Between Amlash Operation and Investigation 
of JFK Assassination 
. I 
I 
The staff's memorandum of January 5, 1976, postulated that the 
Arnlash operation might ha:7e had some e~fect on ~IA'~ response to 
the investigation of President Kennedy s assassinat 7on. On January 
9 1976 the staff asked for access to the Arnlash file at CIA; and 
after a
1
delay which was not explained, the staff was permitted to 
review the file on January 23 and 26. 
,summary of Arnlash File 
Arnlash initially contacted by CIA in 1961 met occasionally with 
case officers through August 1962, at which time he was given instruc­
tion in secret writing and explosives. Interest in Arnlash continued 
after the August meetings, but there was no further direct contact by CIA 
agents until mid-1963. Why •• there was a year lapse iD: contact with Arn­
lash cannot be determined; the Cuban missile crisis in October 1962 
undoubtedly made CIA cautious in dealing with· Amlash. 
* In any event, DIR 48198 'to Rome of 19 
Amwhip, a Cuban exile who assisted CIA, had 
an "activation effort to reluctant dragon." 
• "reluctant dragon" and was,,/ by this letter, 
June 1963 states that 
sent a letter as part of 
Presumably, Arnlash was 
asked to re con tact CIA. 
mt 50955 
, 
In late· August, Arnlash traveled with a large contingent of Cuban 
officials and athletes to Porto Alegre, Brazil. He cabled Amwhip 
about his arrival on August 29. This cable apparently was the signal 
that he was. prepared to meet Amwhip in Porto Alegre. • 
Amwhip and two CIA case officers met with Arnlash in Porto Alegre 
between September 5 and 8. The two case officers have testified to 
the Connnit:tee about their understanding of events at this series of 
meetings which they viewed essentially as a get acquainted session. 
CIA-messages tell a different story. Porto Alegre 0704 to DIR of 7 
September stated that Arnlash told Amwhip he felt' there were on+y two 
ways of getting rid of Castro. The first was an invasion by U.S. 
forces .whichArnlash knew was out of the question and the second was 
an "inside job." Amlash indicated he was awaiting a U.S. plan of action. 
He referred to the explosives demonstration CIA gave him a year earlier 
as "too cumbersome" for his purposes. 
* DIRs are messages· sent from Langley~ 
Docld:32423630. Page 475 
