13-00000 
the infd"nnation st'raight forwardly, thereby, handicapping the analysts 1n making 
. ~ confident· judgment of the accuracy of the report's content. 7'- ~ 
Some ·1ntel ligence analysts, _both inside and outside the CIA, receive.-
1 arge numbers of this type of report every day, many of wh1 ch do come from 
actual agents. But by mixing together information supplied by-audio surveillance 
(which is·, by definition, an accul!late account of what was s4id) with agent 
reports which are sometimes exaggerated or false, the Clandestine Services 
confuses and often mislead.s those people within the U.S. g·overnment whose . ' 
function_ it is to anUyse foreign events· and indirectly those leaders. who make 
decisions based on that intelligence analysis .. 
/, 
/].n. the mid-l 960s, the Far East Divi~ion of the· Clandestine Services and . <Iii) 
the experts of the.Scientific and ltachn1cal· Directorate ·ccmbin€Jddf'5oces to 
carry out one of the Agency's most imaginative (if ultimately unsuccessful) 
intelligence collection operations ever undertaken. At that time, top-level 
U.S. government officials were distutbed by repprts that Communist China was on 
• the verge of developing an intercontinental ballistic miss11e (ICBM) system .. 
They knew that. the threat posed by Chinese .ICBM's would play an irnportant part 
in the decision, then under consideration, to go· ahead: with an America·n anti­
ballistic missile (ABM) .deployment program. As a matter of the highest 
priority, the CIA was told to find out what was happening at Shuangch'engtztt, the 
• Chinese missile test site in the far western corner of Inner Mongolia . 
. f.h~ Agency• s technical specialists responded by designing a nuclear­
ppwered device which could monitor certaih key electronic. emissions coming from 
the missile -site, well over a thousand miles away, and then :rely the information 
to· a CIA 1 istening po_st~. The plan was to emplace the device on a-:mounta1n 
peak cal led-• the Nanda Devi, at an a 1 ti tude of more than 25,000 feet, in the 
Indian Himalayas from where it would have an unobstructed "line-of-sight" _to 
the secret test facility. As the device was being ·perfec.ted· in the CIA· 
hhnratnrfpc;_ thP r.l;mrlPc;t:inP SPrVicP.~ took on ,thP. rrsoonsib11~~-v for the mo:~CnEI 
