K'. 
( 
[ 
( 
C. 
,,..SECTION_lO7 .ECURITY INFORMA.NTS AND 
INJ!'ORMA!·iT FILES 
1. Opening 
CONFID .?IA.L SOURCES. 
. • : 
.1O7K 
a. When active investigation is initiated regarding potenti~l informant 
or confidential source who is not subject of security-type file, 
open 134 file. 
b. If individual is subject of security case and after being intervie\·,cd 
appears to have potential as informant, open separate 134 file to 
follow informant development. In espionage and foreign na-tionality 
rr.atters, existing file may be used if this is pra·ctic.al. 
c. Maintain individual files on all activ.~ informants as pending active 
files. 
2. Monthly administrative report 
Include files on potential informants and informants in tabulattons and 
calculations of delinquencies in monthly administrative report.· 
3. Assignment and tickler cards 
Y.iaintain assignment and tickler cards, but do not show true name of 
informant, (potential informant, panel source or confidential sourc·e] 
on such cards. 
4. Subfiles 
a. Subfile is required on each informant viho submits statements, written 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where 
subfile is necessary only in those instances involving possible 
prosecution. File in this subfile original of each statement, 
whether personally written by informant or furnished orally and 
reduced to writing by contacting Agent. Staple executed form FD-3O6 
or channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items on form 
FD-3O6 to original of each such statement. 
b. Holes may be punched in original state.men ts of informants for 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration.of any 
portion of statements or notations thereon. 
5. Channelization 
Include excerpts from informant's statement in regular investigative 
case report when information of value is submitted. Form FD-3O6 may be. 
used to disseminate this information to case file in lieu of channelizing 
memorandum if desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-3O6 as needed fo~ 
channelization and staple one copy t.o each copy of informant's state-
ment being channelized. Channelization should be noted on origin~l 
FD-3O6 and all copies. . 
6. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of 
See Manual of Rules- and Regulations. 
7. C9rrespondence 
Correspondence in security informant and potential security. informant 
matters should be strictly limited to administrative handling of informant 
and should not contain information more properly furnished under sub­
stantive case caption. 
8. ¥.,.a.intenance of files 
a. ~~intain all symbol number informant files, pending and closed, 
under lock and key under personal supervision of SAC, ASAC, field 
supervisor, or responsible employee designated by SAC. 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in open 
files section, provided there. is no disclosure of informant's 
identity on statements. 
c. Maintain informant files so that all information furnished ~yin­
formant will be immediately available when needed. 
a. In addition, maintain these files so identities of cases in which an 
informant has furnished competent evidence can be obtained immediately by 
simply referring to file of informant and without extensive research. 
13 
6-14-71 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1224 
i l 
l 
i 
