general covert action plan reported by Allen Dulles at that meeting and to 
the general consideration given at that time in the U.S. Government to 
identify Cuban groups with which the U.S. might work to overthrow the Castro 
·regime." (Burke affidavit, p. 1). Burke stated: 
"In this connection, it was my view that the U.S. must support 
those Cuban groups who would have a sufficient power base among 
the Cuban people, not merely to overthrow Castro, but to be 
able to cope with and dismantle his organization as well. It 
was my firm belief at the time that many people in Castro's 
organization were Communist and that Castro was probably a 
Communist. I therefore advocated that any effort to support 
groups so as to achieve Castro's overthrow must focus, not 
merely on the leaders at the top of the Castro regime, but on 
the very strong organization that had.been the key to Castro's 
rise to power, and was the basis for hi~ power." (Burke affidavit, 
p. 1-2). * • 
Burke stated further: 
• 11The question of a Castro assassination never arose at the March 10, 
1960 NSC meeting or at any other meeting or discussion that I 
attended or in which I participated. It is my firm conviction 
14 
based on five years of close association with President Eisenhower 
during my service as Chief of Naval Operations, that President 
Eisenhower would never have tolerated such a discussion, . 
or have permitted anyone to propose assassination, nor would he 
have ever authorized, condoned, or permitted an assassination 
attempt. 11 (Burke affidavit, p. 2). 
Gray testified that the discussion at the March 10 and March 14, 
1960 meetings dealt with plans to overthrow the Castro government, rather than 
to assassinate Castro himself. He said that Admiral Burke's recorded comment 
at the March 10~ 1960 NSC meeting was part of a lengthy and general discussion 
of the problem of Cuba. At the outset of that discussion, it was Under Secretary 
of State Douglas Dillon who pointed.out that "the result of Castro's disappearance 
might be a Communist takeover." (Gray Ex. 2, p. 7; Gray, p. 11). And 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 114 
