( H. 
[ 
( 
\ I 
• 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONT.ACTS 
INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED TO THE BURE!.U 
1. W.nich does not have a nationwide circulation or interest 
a. Relating to law enforcement concerning 
I
ll Scientific apparatus 
2 Equipment 
3 Personnel 
4 Methods 
( 5 Economics 
b. Newspaper clippings, other than items bearing the date line of a 
6R 
national wire service, should be submitted when they concern 
1) The FBI, derogatory and complimentary. If possible, show author. 
2) Outstanding abuses of parole and probation 
3) Outstanding instances of juvenile crime 
4l Bad local crime conditions 
5 Scientific crime detection experts 
6 Bureau police schools only when there is some unusual feature 
about the publicity. Examples: items setting forth comments 
(7) 
( 8) 
(9) 
made by police bfficers as to the value of police schools; 
comments on the caliber of schools in which FBI participates; 
incidents in which a police offiqer credits instruction he 
received in a police school as enabling him to capture a fugitive, 
solve a case, or otherwise perform his work more efficiently. 
(File in individual pertinent school files clippings relative 
. to each J>o;J.ice school in which field" participates.) 
Police training in colle·ges arid universities 
.Aggravated sex offenders · • • • • 
Matters appearing in the press concerning the names of promi­
nent persons who c,3,re mentioned in connection with Bureau cases. 
These matters also include wire service stories mentioning 
directly or indirectly persons of prominence in pending in­
vestigations being handled in your division. Forwa~d_such 
matt~rs immedi•ately and if there is• any question as to what 
action should be taken ask for specific instructions. 
(10) Items of interest by nationally syndicated columnists need 
not be submitted if it is apparent that such items will come 
to the Bureau's attention through its review of Washington, 
D. C., newspapers. Columns of interest by writers syndicated 
regionally should, of course, be submitted. 
2. Method of preparation for transmittal 
a. 11ount the clippin_g on form FD-350 wi"j;hin the borders shown. . 
b. Do not fold the clipping except-in the case of a very large picture 
~r in the case of a single word in a headline too long to fit in the 
allotted space, Make certain the clipping is placed evenly on the 
paper and does not hang over its edges. If necessary, a second page 
may be used and the only requirement is that a margin at least 1 1/2 
inches deep should be left at the top of the page. 
c. The large block on the right side of FD-350 has space for the insertion 
of the names of more than one newspaper. The names of newspapers 
clipped may be overprinted in this space. Placing the page number on 
the line in front of the name of the newspaper will serve to designate 
which paper the clipping is from. The page number may be written in· 
longhand. Only the page number on which the article begins should, 
be shown, If overprinting is not used, required information othe~ 
than page number should be typed. 
d. Show whether the matte~ mentioned is being investigated; 
e, Inser~ staples hori~on~ally at the top ann bottom and vertically at 
the sides of all clippings. Use only a sufficient number of staples 
to hold the clipping securely to the paper. 
f. D? no~ mutilate or mark c~ipping in any manner by underlining or 
circling words or by drawing arrows to direct attention. 
g. No cover letter needed when submitting clippings unless clarification 
is_requi~ed for a particular clipping. This may be handled by routing 
slip, le~ter, or airtel accompanying clipping in question. 
5 
2-27-75 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1112 
