13-00000 
LEVEL 1 - 15 OF 80 STORIES 
Copyright 1993 Chicago Tribune Campany 
Chicago Tribune 
October 3, 1993 Sunday, FINAL EDITION 
SECTION: TEMPO; Pg. 1; ZONE: C 
LENGTH: 1949 wards 
HEADLINE: THE CASE AGAINST CONSPIRACY; 
GERALD POSNER, ACTING ALONE, HAS WOUNDED THE JFK COVER-UP INDUSTRY 
BYLINE: By Paul Gallaway, Tribune Staff Writer. 
BODY: 
PAGE 1 
The rendez.vous was arranged far a weeknight last fall at a Turkish restaurant 
near CIA headquarters ln Langley, Va. The proprietor would be expecting him. 
When author Gerald Posner said he was there ta meet George and his wife, as 
he had been instructed ta do, the proprietor led Posner and his wife, Trisha, to 
a private table in the back roam. 
George was the code name .far Yuri Nasenka, a KGB officer who defected to the 
U.S. in 1964 and now lives under another name in an undisclosed part of the· 
country. Posner was researching a back about the assassination of Jahn F. 
l(ennedy, and Nasenko had agreed ta speak for the first time exclusively about 
the Soviet intelligence agency's surveillance of Lee Harvey Oswald during his 
stay in the Soviet Union from late 1959 until June 1962. Nosenko had suggested 
that he and Posner bring their wives, Posner said, because the sight of two 
couples dining together would serve as caver far their interview. 
"Yuri supervised the Oswald file in Moscow and was familiar w.i th the KGB 
. files an Oswald's time in Minsk, which I had seen, 11 Posner said. "I knew he 
""could be extremely helpful in reconstructing that period JJf Oswald's life." 
A chapter in Posner• s new back, "Case Closed: Lee -Harvey Oswald and the 
Assassination of JFK, 11 is devoted to Nasenko and his assessments of Oswald. 
As the title suggests, Posner finds Oswald ta be l(ennedy~s assassin, acting 
alone, just as the Warren Commission said. Further, he was not a CIA agent, not 
a KGB agent, not an innocent patsy but a sociopath and laser who had grandiose 
nations of making a mark in history. 
Posner is as surprised at the book's conclusion as the conspiracy buffs are 
riled. 
"I'm getting same very personal, vindictive calls from the conspiracy people. 
If it• s any cansalatian, I never set out ta do a book that would say here is the 
final answer, here is who did it, 11 Posner said during a visit ta Chicago. 
Posner's intention was to write a primer of sort~ about the assassination 
after examining the welter of conspiracy theories to see what was credible and 
what wasn't. 
~rvices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
