r· 
. :,,.~:•:· 
• 
-2-
11to neutralize Communist front and Communist-dominated organi­
zations of the United States" (IIC and ICIS Report to NSC, 
March 5, 1954), "program designed to intensify any confusion and 
dissatisfaction among its ,Lcommunist Party's? members" and • 
"counterintelligence operations" (NSC Briefing, November 6, 1958), 
"action proposals to protect the internal security of the United 
States" (National Security Action Memorandum 161, June 9, 1962). 
The term "counterespionage" ~eappears in several other documents. 
These terms seem to refer to activities which have since 
been labeled COINTELPRO operations_. :i;n this' regard, it should 
be noted that Attorney General Saxbe's-report of November 18, 
1974 on FBI COINTELERO Activities stated, at p. 20: 
'•~ ... 
-~(2) Espionage or Soviet-Satellite Intelligence 
This program, although officially designated 
a COINTELPRO program, emphasized intelligence gathering 
and counterintelligence efforts already being pursued 
in connection with the Bureau's ongoing ·foreign intelli­
gence responsibilities. It did not curtail.any activity 
or in any way change the scope of counterintelligence 
efforts already in effect and continuing today. It was 
primarily intended to inspire initiative and to encourage 
ingenuity in the Bure~u•s continuing counterintelligence 
e£forts against hostile foreign intelligence services ... 
··In the interest of the national security, no 
statistics or examples of the types of actions imple~ 
mented under this program may appropriately be disclosed. 11 
This passage seems to say that the FBI continues to perform 
other activities going beyond investigation and directed at 
hostile foreign intelligence services . • The following questions arise: 
(1) In what way, if any, do the Presidential directives 
discussed in Parts I and II provide a legal basis 
for FBI national security intelligence activities 
beyond ipvestigations? 
(2) In ~hat way, if any, do the Presidential directives 
dis?~ssed in Parts I and II provide a legal basis 
for the COINTELPRO activities which have been 
discontinued as a matter of policy since 1971? 
• ,, 
I 
Docld:32989588 235 
