13-00000. 
,· 
I 
. . •. . . 
f • · • • ' ' r • ' !. • ,. • '' • • L -. ·L.·\ ., ..... , i., '-' ,•• \ ... ·11 .. s, •' r;-1 
.. 
3 
exposure of KGB activities and counteractions against the 
Soviet intelligence service. The reasons are still unclear 
to me as to why the FBI chose to brief the PFIAB to the 
effect that CIA was planning to wiretap extensively and 
indiscriminately in this country, to greatly increase 
the Agency representation in the Moscow Embassy, and 
generally to use KGB-type tactics, also extensively and 
indiscri11ina tely. Th is led to a . hea.ted · ~xchange between 
DCI McCone and Mr. Belmont of the FBI, one such meeting 
taking place in the presence of -the Attorriey General. 
It is clear that the FBI was opposed to any such proposal 
then, as now, and the plan nevet went forward. 
5. During the period when Des FitzGerald was in 
charge of the Cuban Task Force, DCI McCone'& office 
learned, quite by accident, that FitzGerafd had secured 
the cooperation of several prominent US business firms 
in denying economic i terns to Cuba. There was no question . 
but that the businessmen were glad .to cooperate, b,ut know­
ledge of this operation had to be rather widespread. • 
6. On 17 Apri 1 1964, Mr. Robert B. Anderson came 
to DCI McCone on behalf of American business interests, 
offering to insert some $300,000 to try to secure a 
favorable result in t~e elections in Panama. Shortly 
after this approach, Mr. Clyde Weed of Anaconda Copper 
Company made a similar proposal to McCone in connectlon 
with elect.ions in Chi le. On 12 May 1964 at a meeting of 
the 303 Committee, it was dec'tded that the offers of 
American business could not be accepted, it being neither 
a secure way nor an honorable way of doing such business. 
This declaration of policy at this time bears on the recent 
ITT hearings, but I am not surprised that McCone has 
forgotten that he helped to set the precedent of refusing 
to accept such collaboration between the Agency.'s operations 
and private busi·ness. 
7. At the direction of Attorney General Robert 
Kennedy and with the explicit approval of President Kennedy, 
McCone injected the Agency, and particularly Cord Meyer, 
00459 
