____.. 
NW 
- 2., -
Oswild stated that he has two brothers, who reside,iik~ his 
m·other,in Fort Worth, Texas. Ee stated that his father, John Lee 
Oswald, is deceased. 
Oswald's mother: Marparette Oswald, resides by herself in 
Fort Worth, Texas. 
Oswald's brothers: Robert Os1;.;~ld, WM, age 27, 
John Oswald, UM, a f..6 J2, 
Oswald stated he had talked to r-fajor Trosclair nbot:t gettjng a 
permit for F.F.F.C.C. and the Major advised him to consult his attorney. 
Oswald said he never did go and see about a permit at city hall. . I 
Oswald further stated the Cubans came up to him where he was 
giving out the leaflets and began to tear them up and throw them 
in the street. Osw~ld sta.ted that they started to yell that he 
was a co~Jnunist and about that time the officers from the First 
Disteict came up and a crowd had gathered. Oswald stated he joined 
Fair Flay for Cuba Committee when he found a leaflet on the street 
one day and read what was on it, and sent $5.00 to the address 
whiGh was in New York city and after a brief period of tir.1e he was 
sent material through the mail and.contacted locally, and he started 
to attend the meetings; which he stated were held in each others 
homes. Oswald stated they, the members, get together and talk 
about how it would be to visit Cuba, life in Cuba, etc .. 
Oswald denied the organization was communist, or a communist 
front, when asked by Captain James Arnold, Conmanding Officer of 
the First Police Distri~t, who came in during the interview, but 
Oswald had in his possession and was carrying a piece of card­
board with''VIVA VIVA Fidelrr painted on it and the paraphernalia 
he was handing out was pasted on this cardr·oard also. Oswald 
stated he has never been to Cuba, and it apreared as though he 
is being used by these r,eople and is very uninformed and knows 
very little about this organization that he belongs to and 
its ultimate purpose or goal. Oswald stated that the people that 
attend these informal meetings are working class people~ such as 
clerical, trades, etc .. 
The three Cubans were interviewed and furnished the following 
information: 
#1. Celso Macario Hernandez, _Wr•,!, aEe 47, D.O.B. 1/8/16, 
Social Security number 265-76-$756 · 
Hernnnde~ stat~d he ca~e to the United States viR Miami, 
Florida; on October 9, 1962, with his family and he. was a 
traveling book salesman in Cuba. He came to New Orleans on 
January g, 1963 and resides at 519 Adele Street, New Orleans 
with his family. Ee has not hnd any employment except for a 
few days of manual labor in Miami, Florida, and is presently on 
relief or welfare. 
- 2 -Docld:32154170 Page 5 
! 
the 
