•• 
CONFIDENTIAL , 
Women's Bail Fund 
The following are reflections carried unde~ the 
sub-caption "Questions We Are Facing Right Now". 
"There's a real dialectic between reform md 
revolution. So much of what we do is short-term support 
stuff that can be seen as reformist. When prisoners raise 
these demands it's understood to be revolutionary; when 
people on the outside raise them, they are felt to be 
reformist. I have done a whole lot of courtroom work, 
both in the bail fund and before too. In fact, the whole 
social work thing is what I come out of, which is why it 
is so hard for me to deal with all this ('cause I obviously 
reflect a lot of that work). Social work when it started 
back in the late 18OO's and early 19OO's came out of real 
radical circles, the radicals and feminists and such. And 
when you read MAO, he talks about service to the people 
as a revolutionary thing. But for us it feels weird 
because it has been co-opted. I think that the movement 
now, trying to recoup the revolutionary aspects, that 
original sense of service to the people, trying to help 
people survive. 
"One of the ways to really keep ourselves -
out of the rut of being social workers is to engage in 
more political education among ourselves and to ask other 
groups how they've dealt with this question. Also we 
should be mo~e involved in educating other people. 
"We should be doing more for women inside. We 
need to really work on facilitating communications 
between the sisters inside the jail. Women prisoners 
have been slower to get organized but I'm sure this is 
because there is so much isolation in the women's jail. 
Concretely, we need to write more letters to find out what 
is going on, send literature, but also tell the women about 
each other, about what other women are thinking and feeling. 
This would stop the sense of isolation and increase the 
sense of solidarity. 
"I think much of the movement is guilty of 
ultra-leftism. In China the Connnunists worked on a lot 
of things that were a lot less than what they ultimately 
wanted. We're too afraid of being contaminated by being 
involved in reform movements. We too often define our 
enemies too broadly and our allies too narrowly. 
- 3 ,-
CONFIDENTIAL 
NW 88321 Dodd:3298954£ Page 427 
