14-00000 
) 
Attachment III 
Records Declassified and Released. 
Summary. This Attachment discusses the process used by 
CIA to declassify JFK assassination-related documents, 
including interaction with the Board and subsequent re­
reviews of materials, as well as the personnel resources 
engaged in this effort. It· discusses the volumes of records 
reviewed, the volumes of records declassified, and the 
manner in which the material has or will be •~1ade available 
to the public. 
Discussion. In response to the enactment of the JFK 
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 and in 
anticipation of the appointment of the Review Board, CIA, 
during 1992 and 1993, reviewed for declassification material 
which had been sequestered following the investigation of 
the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) in 1978. 
As a result of this effort, CIA released as declassified to 
the National Archives in August 1993 some 127,000 pages of 
material from this collection. Since that time, additional 
releases have been made; approximately 74,000 pages from the 
microfilm part of the collection were declassified and 
released in August 1994 and 30,000 pages of HSCA originated 
material were declassified and released in 1995. We 
estimate that, since 1992, CIA has devoted over 100 work 
years to its effort to respond to the JFK Act (including 
·experienced annuitants working as independent contractors). 
The development of the declassification review 
methodology was, from the beginning in 1992, an iterative 
process that. took into acc_ount both the_ requirements of the 
JFK Act to release to the public information relevant to an 
understanding of the assassination and the DCI's statutory 
mandate to protect intelligence sources and methods under 
the National Security Act of 1947 and the CIA Act of 1949. 
In the years since 1992, considerable effort has been 
expended to balancing these two objectives. Interaction 
with the Board's staff was a significant factor in reaching 
this proper balance. The net result is that practices over 
this period evolved to the extent that types of material 
that had been redacted at the beginning of the process were, 
by the end, no longer considered necessary to withhold. 
This has, of course, required a further re-review of the 
material released during the earlier period to assure that 
