:: 
87D 
[ 
[ 
[ 
... ~'".:TION 87. S'ECl1'.!tITY rtrvEST!GAT: ·s 
• •• II. wnenever reports relating to secu~ity index subjects 
contain data affe~ting material included on subject•a 
existing security index card, the cover pages 
accompanying the report shall include as the last page 
form FD-305, appropriately checked, which form contains 
. i liems pertainin_g to the _following: 
(A) That subject in includ~d in the security index 
(B,) That data appearing on security index card is 
(c) 
current or requires change 
rhat FD-122 has been submitted to Bureau where 
security index card changes are necessary 
That a suitable photograph is or is no·t 2.-vailable 
That consideration has been given to "the use of 
T symbols . 
(F) That subject is employed in a key facility and that 
·adencies interested in that facility are specified 
R:ason for classifying report (G) 
,.(R) 
(I) 
Dates subject was r,reviously interviewed and 
reason for not reinterviewing subject 
That subject no longer m~et~ sequrity index 
criteria Rnd a letter has b~ea directed to the 
Bureau recommending cancellation of the security 
, index card 
(J) That subject's case has been re-evaluated and r.easons 
are set forth as to why subject's activities continue 
• •. , to fall within security index criteria • 
(K) That subject's security index ca~d is or is not 
tabbed detcom and that subject I s activities do or do 
not warrant detcom tabbing 
[III. Form FD-305a containing items pertinent to reserve 
index subjects will be similarly utilized ~n connection 
with the submission of reports in reserve index cases.] 
(b) Documentation of reports 
I. Deleted 
II. If information necessary for: complete· documentation 
is not available in subject's c~se file, necessary 
reviEnr of other office files should be made. If 
not.~btainable, this fact must be indicated in the 
cover page(s) acco~panying report to the Bureau. 
III. Extensive investigation should not be conducted to 
fu~ther· identify and locate outside individuals vrho 
ha.ve in the pa.st furnished ba.c1qfround information 
or to obt2.in d,ocumentary e-ridence of background 
information, For example, if previous investigati6n 
revealed that subject, cccording to reliable recorus, 
such as birth records, school records, or recoras of 
the Imm.ig:i::2.tion and _naturalization Service, was born 
at a o~rtain plzce on a certain date, such information 
will be sufficient for inclusion in report. Further 
verification will not be necessarv. 
IV. During t-lte preprira.tion of surm:1aryv repo;r:ts it is often 
found that inforr.u.>,tion bein:f incorporated into a re-
port was originnlly obtained by another office and nll 
of the necessary in:form:.>.tion for complete dooumen.ta.tion 
will not be in the possession of the office prepu.r:i.ng 
the report. In such an in9tance, if the offlce pre­
paring the repor~ is in posses3ion of Photostats of 
documents obtained by the other offices G.r..d the identity 
L NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 876 
78 
10-,13-60 
"\. 
J 
.., 
