13-00000 . ' 
.. TOP SECRET DINAR 
CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION - cont'd 
• i'-' ~- (,0~ 
Tw_ o government soldiers were killed_ i~ southern. Oriente 
Province on 3 December wi members __ ~f &nit 19~8) at n uni en­
tified location within t ~irst ArmI} area, ·uncovered and fired 
.on a dice game, which appa ently included personnel from their d 
own unit. A 3 Dece_mber message from military ~nit 1948 to South 2..-, 
Sierra Maestra Sector HeadquarterS\ stated that -"when the players 
attempted to flee, the soldiers cmfunenced firing without orders, 
causing the death of one un_nllmed pJ.ayer and the chief of organ­
ization and personnel of {!Jnit 1948Ji.Lf The message added that the 
bodies and the "civilian and military prisoners" were being sent 
tp sector headquarters. (USN 835, 2/LR1/fUMYR196-63, -5 December, 
SECRET KIMBO) - qq ~ 
Dolores Ibarruri, "La Pasionaria" of Spanish Civil War fame 
and secretary general of the Spanish Communist Party, arrived in 
Havana from Moscow on 5 December, according to press reports. 
Ibarruri, who resides in Moscow, was invited to Cuba by Castro 
during his visit to the Soviet Union. (The New York Times, 
6 December, UNCLASSIFIED) - -- ---
CUBAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT: 
Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, minister of INRA, has expressed 
serious· dissatisfaction with Cuba's current agricultural situa­
tion and revealed that he disagrees with castro's emphasis on 
"ultimate aims" in place of current "tactics." In a long talk 
with the-British ambassador in early November, Rodriguez agreed 
"with surprising enthusiasm" that the two main problems facing 
Cuban agriculture were the lack of competent personnel to run 
the appropriated farms, and the lack of consumer goods which 
are necessary to stimulate production, especially by the remain­
ing private farmers. Rodriguez had adv-ised Castro that there 
were not sufficie_nt agricultural experts to run the state farms 
which had been previously organized, and he bad counseled against 
taking over medium-size farms (as the Second Agrarian Reform Law 
did) until sufficiently tr,1ned and experienced personnel were 
available; he commented on Soviet complaints about the low edu­
cational level of Cubans sent to the USSR for agricultural 
training. Rodriguez said that despite his advice, castro had 
gone ahead with the Second Agrarian Reform Law for two "polit­
ical" reasons: to push ahead with the. progress of Cuba's 
_Socialist economy, and to destroy the support for counterrevo-
lutionaries which castro believed existed among the "rural 
bourgeois." Rodriguez thought it ironical that US pressure.on 
Cuba (presumably he meant aid to counterrevolutionaries) had 
forced Cuba·to seize lands faster than it would otherwise have 
cione. He also stated his belief that the seizure of medium­
size farms would lead to a drop for several years in many 
branches of Cuban agriculture, particularly in market gardening 
and dairy farming. 
-3-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
