' . . 
• '')'f}J~~:l. 
,I, • 
.. . 
7::/"emorandwn to 'fi.Ir. Belmont 
Re: IlLTTELLIGE'JICE COVERAGE 01
17 
.. : 
J?Ril!i'lt!DLY F'OREIG-l\l COUNTRIE.,8 
65-63113 
• This program h,as a two.fold purpose, first, to acquire 
information concerning the identities and activities o.i official personnel< 
·of foreign govern;nents in the U. S'oj secondly, to produce intelligence 
inforination concerning foreign countries which will ass{st the Bureau in 
its over-all intelligence responsibilities, the Department of State in 
formulating pol ic_y in the .field of international rel at iq,ris, and other 
agencies in connection with their .fo'reign intelligence Junctions.· To 
accomplish this purpose, three separate and dist·inct facets are utilized, 
discussed in detail hereinafter. , ·;1 
(1) !-lcauisition of Infon;-zation from Other ilqencies as to Identities of 
Jiloreiqn Intell iqence Personnel in U. • S. 
On 11-18-54 letters were directed to the Department of State; 
Central, Intelligence Agency; ilss istant Chi e.t of Staff for Intel 1 igence, 
Department of the Army; Office of J:!aval Intelligence; Office of Special 
Invest igat i,ons, Department of. the Air. li'or-ce; and flat lonal ·Security • 
Agency •. A copy was furnished· to· Assi_stant At-torney General,. Internal 
Security Division, ~f the Department:to advise him of the Bureau's 
action. These letters pointed out that information had been received· 
in a _nv.,mber of infi'stances indicating that representatives of so-called 
".friendly" nations had engaged in intelligence activities against the 
_ best interests of the U. Se The case involving Joseph Sidney 
Petersen, J·r., was cited as an e.,,tample. It was noted that representatives 
of friendly countries in some histances were stationeq here to represent 
their governments officially in dealing ·with U. s. agencies and in ether 
instances intelligence representatives of these foreign countries 
frequently visited our country to confer with representatives of various 
u. s. -agencies. It was observed that frequently the 13ureau was not 
officially notified of the arrivals o.t many of these .foreign government 
representatives and the possibility e.xisted that such-persons might 
while in this country engage in intelligence missions not known to the 
agencies of _our Government sponsoring .their visits. 
In our letters of 11-18-54 we requested the si:x. agencies 
involved to notify us when information was received that an i-ntell igence 
representative ·of a foreign government was proceeding -to the U. S. and 
also to let us know in the event any of these agencies.set up a liaison 
arrangemeht with such foreign· representatives. !;.Te pointed out tliis 
informatiori was needed to guide us zn discharging our responsibilitz·,~~i 
and, at 'the same time, to enable us to advise the interested· ag_enc?./ '" 
