13-00000 
Mr. David W. Carey 
October 28, 1997 
Page2 
accelerated in order for us to succeed. We must keep in mind that the goal includes 
reviewing, processing, and transferring to the custody of the National Archives all 
identified assassination records by September 1, 1998. (We do not perceive that 
duplicate copies of such records need be transferred by September 1.) Many time­
consuming difficulties inherent in this project have been overcome, and we perceive 
that the pace of review is accelerating. Nevertheless, we wanted to signal to you our 
concern that, unless the pace of review increases further, we may not be on target to 
satisfy what I hope to be our common objective. 
It is our firm intention to complete our task within the congressionally mandated time 
limit. If CIA is unable to pre-review and process its records consistent with completion 
of this task, the Review Board will vote to release-in-full all relevant CIA records and 
mandate that custody be transferred to the National Archives in a timely way. We 
sincerely hope that it will not be necessary for the Board to make wholesale decisions on 
unreviewed records and we will be pleased to work with the Agency to see that such a 
step is unnecessary. But we are prepared to make such decisions to the extent they are 
required to fulfill our own responsibiliti~. Although it is our perception that CIA may 
wish to devote additional human resources to this project, we of course leave such 
decisions to the sound judgment of knowledgeable CIA officials. 
We therefore strongly urge the Agency to take all appropriate steps to complete its 
review of records in an orderly and systematic manner. To the extent-,that the Agency is 
able to satisfy appropriate deadlines, there will be no need for us to resort to any 
unfortunate - but potentially necessary - measures to complete our own obligations to 
Congress, the President, and the American people. 
If you would find it helpful, the Review Board members and I would be pleased to 
discuss these issues with you or others at the Agency. 
cc: Assassination Records Review Board 
