[ 
[ 
[ 
PART II' 
SECTION 6. PuBLICATTONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
aotivities or olose association with other persons will be.involved in 
unfavorable publicity or beoome the subject of adverse investiga.tiv~ 
a.oti vi ty 7 or who will oapi talize on their friendly a.s.sociatioi:l. with 
the SAC. 
4. Except where a suitable file is already in existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
5. A three- by ~ive-inoh oard on ea.oh contact is to be retained in an SAC 
oontaot box in the exclusive possession of the SAC. Eaoh·card is to 
contain: 
6. 
[7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telephone numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any conunents which would be helpful in handling the individual 
e, Date of first contact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
(Show in the lower left corner on the front of the card.) 
f. Dates. of contacts by the SAC ( to be entered on the reverse side of 
the oard in longhand). Contacts more frequent than quarterly should. 
not be listed. 
g, Any necessary descriptive data 
Each contact is to be indexed in the general ~ndices. The card is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparation, and :{;he notation, 
11See S.AC.11 
SAC contacts located in headquarters city must b~ contacted at least three 
times each year; those located in resident agencies must be contacted ~t 
least two times eacJ+ year.] . 
Advise Bureau immediately when a contact is disconti.i,rned U.A.CB •. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city located within another 
field di vision, a copy of the communication advising ·of the dis continuance 
should be designated for that field division. Also advise field division 
of background information re contact . 
.Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of SAC oontaots. 
Each office must submit a complete roster of SAG contacts to reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and November each year. If there are 
any changes in address, employment, or other pertinent data, such informa­
tion should be set forth. If there is no change in status~ so state. 
From time tp time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more 11FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indioa-tion. that such 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau wi tho1.tt delay.. • 
Imm~diately upon assuming the duties of SAC, such SAG should visit all 
persons listed as SAC contacts and ·in addition leading offioials located 
in the field division. 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 919 
8 
9-30-60 
