13-00000 
Messrs. Aly and Moore 
June 9, 1997 
Page2 • 
PreUminary R.evkw of CaUft,no P,q,ers 
.. 
The Review Board staff has amducted an initial review of the records and has 
tentatively reached the following conclusions: first, the records are very similar in 
subject manner to many other records that already ue·a part of the JFK Collection; 
second, although the vast majority of the records technically remain classifie4 there is 
little remaining sensitivity due to the passage of time and to the~ of ~uch of the 
information in other amtexts; and thinf, the Califano papen contain equities of 
numerous military and non-military agencies, which, under the standard referral 
process, would be very difficult and time-amswning.2 Thus, the logistical problem in 
declassifying the records is not the continued sensitivity o( the recems, but the number . 
of agencies that will need to review their own equities in the records. For this reason, 
and for the shQrt time-line on which we are now operating, we believe that there is ·an 
urgent need to make acceptable ammgements for the review and referral of records. 
Proposal 
In order to expedite the process and make it more efficient, we would like to propose an 
• altemate arrangement for declassification of records. that we previously have found 
effective. We suggest the holding of a multi-agency concurrent review of the Califano 
papers. We would like to schedule a single session at our offices, on or before July 23, 
1997, where all agencies with equities in the Califano papen be concurrently present for 
a declassification review. At such a sessu;m. agencies would be able to review their own 
equities in the records, declassify them, and simply hand. them aaoss the table to other 
• agencies for their review. It has been our own experience that sessions of this sort 
greatly simply the review process by giving agencies the opportunity to speak with 
each other and quickly to resolve questions. 
Because the Califano papers will need to be reviewed by the Board at its August 5-6 
• meeting, we believe that an arrangement such as is proposed above will provide all 
agencies with a full opportunity to identify their equities ·in the records and to make 
determinations regarding the need for continued. classification. H the Army and the 
2Ms. Toni Bowie, of the Arm.yDeclassification Activity, spent three days 
reviewing some of the records and making recommendations for referrals to other 
agencies both within and outside of the military. Although Ms. Bowie worked 
energetically for three days, it was our sense afterwards that, if we continue at the same 
pace, the agencies with equities will likely not be able to complete their reviews before 
the August deadline arrives. 
