. . 
• 
•• 
qµestioning elsewhere than in the Senate, with respect to the events occur­
•ring at the Subcommittee hearing at which the Pentagon Papers were intro­
duced into the public .record. The court stated: 11 ••• /T/o us this claim is 
incontrovertible. 11 (At p. 615.) 
6, The court further noted that: 
' . 
The Speech or Debate Clause was designated to.assure 
a co-equal branch of the government \vide freedom of 
speech, debate, and deliberation without intimidation 
or threats from the Executive Branch. It thus protects 
:Members against prosecutions that directly impinge 
·:, upon or threaten the legislative process. We have no 
• d;ubt that Senator Gravel may not be made to answer-­
either in terms of questions or in terms of defending 
himself from prosecution--for'the .events that occurred 
at the subcommittee meeting .. (Atp. 616.) 
. . ~ ' 
·7. From the above, together with the positive phrasing of Article 1, 
; -.. , . 
§ 6 of the Constitution, it would .appear that any Member may make any state­
ment he desires on the floor of the Congress or-.in one of its committees. Such 
state:q:i.ent shall be absolutely privileged, notwithstanding that it was based 
on information secured from classified Central Intelligence Agency material 
either furnished the :Member in confidence or containing any restrictive 
•. notice as to use or dissemination. This privilege would operate if the 1VIember· 
·were to read the information verbatim into the record on· the floor or into . 
the record of hearings before a congressional committee.· It would still be 
privileged when it appeared, verbatim, in the Congressional Record or in 
the published hearings of a congressional committee. The only sanction, 
• apart from the individual conscience and sense of responsibility of the Member, 
,, would have to come from Congress itself, which has the power to discipline 
any Representative or Senator who improperly disclosed classified information. . . 
8. One additional wrinkle might be noted. Although Congressmen 
would be immune from liability for introducing classified informai:l:on into 
a committee report and immune from liability for ordering it printed and 
disseminated to the public at large, the Public Printer and the Superintendent 
of Documents may not be immune from suit for printing and disseminating 
such reports to the public. The court examined this question in Doe v. 
McMill~n. 412 U .S, 306(1973), a case in which petitioner~ claimed that a 
report issued by the House Committee on the District of Columbia, containing 
... 
• r • 
, -
4 . . . ' : 
,· 
- .. ·· 
