f 
[ 
107M - N SECTION·• SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CO.EN'TIAL SOURCES 
N. 
document in the pertinent informant file and is not to be serialized. 
If a particular section of this form is not applicable, such should be 
noted thereon. If it later becomes applicable, the serial nu!Rber can be 
noted at that time. 
[12. J Bulk-y material submitted by informant 
Where informant or source submits bulky material other than a statement 
and same pertains to a specific investigative matter, bulky material may­
~e filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of executed 
·form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicabl~ items 
set forth on form FD-306. In such a case, the original form FD-306 or 
channelizing memorandum should be filed in the subfile of the informant 
or source and the file and serial number where the bulky material is 
located should be noted thereon. 
PAYMENTS TO INFORMANTS AND HANDLING :MONEY RECEIVED 
1. No gifts to inform~nts 
a. Gifts should not be given to informants since such actions might be 
misconstrued. 
b. Relationship between Agents and informants shall be maintained on 
a busine~slike basis. 
o. Expenditures for gifts to informants will not be approved as blue 
slip items. . _ 
,· I 
' 
d. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
representatives of companies, private indus+.ries, or insurance companies 
and request assistance regar-ding payments of money, gifts, or products 
of such companies to informants. 
2. S.AC au·thori ty to pay informants . 
a. In specific instances in which it is necessary and expedient to 
expend money to obtain information concerning matters or persons 
under investigation, which is not otherwise obtainable, or to advance 
expense money to enable an individual to obtain such information, 
SAC may.. approve payments of amounts up to $200 and totaling not more 
than $200 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of the number of payments. 
Thi"s applies only to individuals who have never been_ reg.ularly paid 
for services or expenses on Bureau authorization. In other words, 
once an individual has been paid on Bureau authorizai:'";, ,.-:, regardless 
of the ampunt, this authority of the S.A.C may not be ud ,.ized. • 
b. Indiv.idual who is paid on S.A.C authority should not be described in 
correspondence as an informant or source who is being paid on a 
"regular basis" or on "Bureau- authorization."· 
o. The blue slip reclaiming any of these payments authorized by th·e SAC 
must clearly and accurately explain the circumstances and summarize the 
information obt 9 ined so the Bureau will be in a, po~i tio~ to pass 
intelligently such blue slips for payment. , • 
d. Prior Bureau authority must.be obtained to make any additional payment 
to an individual who has received payments totaling $200, 
3. Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, ol:itain specific· Bureau autho!'~za­
. tion. • . 
b. In requesting this authorization, .a justification must be set forth 
containing the following items and usin( the subheadings ~hown, 
--{In espionage and foreign nationality matters, us.e subheadings 
where applicable.) . . , .. 
{1) Recommendation 
(Use fQllowing wording as nearly as po~sibie: 
"I recommend that ·authority be granted to , ,.., 
continue (increase, decrease) payments to the 
above informant up to$ {amount) per {month, week) 
for services, plus up to$ {amount) per (month, wee~ .. 
for expenses actually incurred for a period of months, 
,effective __ {date). 11) . --
18 
3-1;3-61 
! NW 383-21 Docld:3-2989529 1556 
