. \ 
' 
., . / 
of Departmental· attorneys and investigative personnel from 
several different Federal investigative agencies. The FBI 
was invited to assign personnel but declined because of its 
overall commitments requiring utilization of all of its 
Agents. However, we have ·extended complete cooperation in 
the form of information in investigative reports and have 
promptly handled all cases within our investigative juris­
diction that were referred to us from the Task Forces. 
Since the initial Task Force at Buffalo, the Depart-. 
ment has formed such groups in Detroit, Michigan; Brooklyn, 
New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Chicago, Illinois; 
Miami, Florida; and Newark, New Jersey. 
We now maintain liaison with the various Task 
Forces but not on a full-time· basis. 
• It has been recommended that (1) we continue to 
cooperate on a full-time basis, from the standpoint of 
furnishing information to the various Task Forces, (2) that 
the Director indicate to the new Attorney General that we­
will be happy to assign an FBI Inspector to serve as .liaison 
with the Department Task Force office in Washington, D. c., 
(3) that a supervisory employee would be assigned by each 
SAC to a specific Task Force when such Task Force is established 
within a given area where one of our· field offices ·is loc•tedy 
for liaison purposes. . 
La Cosa Nostra Leadership Changes 
In the New York City area where La Cosa Nostra 
"Commission" member Thomas Luchese died during 1967, no 
successor has been named to date, primarily because the FBI 
was responsible for the arrest and/or conviction of the four 
leading contenders,_ all "captains" or ranking members of the 
Luchese "family." 
In Chicago,. John Philip Cerone, who was being groomed 
as the top leader of La Cosa Nostra group in the Chicago area, 
was arrested on February 7,i969, for Ititer~tate Gambling 
Activities. Cerone was the interim Chicagd leader for Sam 
Giancana, who fled to Latin America following his release from 
Federal prison and his successor, Sam Battaglia, who is in 
Federal prison for violating the Anti-Racketeering Act. --
.In New York, veteran New York hoodlum Paul Sciacca 
presently is the "boss" of a New York City La Cosa Nostra 
"family" once headed by the notorious, controversial Joseph 
Bonanno. 
