[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
lC7U SECTION 107 ~ 41BcURITY- IN::?ORL"'.:.AN'.l:S _um CON?ID.li,l.t..H souRcEs 
5. Utiliza.tio.-
a. If con~·;.!ential source _; .: to be used f0r assistance in securi·ty 
:invest:i.;;.-1.t·ions, secure : 'Cali. approval, and. background data. mu.st ( 
be fu1,nished to the Bure,·,U of the same type which is required 
for potential security informants. 
b. Except in espion;:,.ge and foreign nationality matters in which the 
frequency of contact is depend.ent upon circumstances of the individual 
c~se, confiGential sources on whom pending files arc maintained should 
also be oon.tac-':;ed at least once every two weeks in the same manner 
as security in-:ormants. 
o. Records of contao·!;s with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted .• 
d, Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by tho Agent 
or Agents specifically designated for that purpose. 
o. Th,.; let·ber to the Bu.re·!-1-u requesting au·bhori ty to US€: a subjcc·l; 
as a confidential source is to set ou·b clearly the following informa­
tion: 
(1) Background information,_ :tn.cluding date' and place of birth, 
citizenship status:, residence, employment, credit and arrest 
record, and service record, if a.ny 
(2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together with the results· of any 
interviews conducted with him 
(3) A statement to the e~fect subject is being considered a con­
fidential source and that he will be advised he is n.ot a 
Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
ship with the Bureau, In addition, a statement should be made 
that you. will be alert to be certain subject is no-r. a plant, and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matte~s. 
f. One of the required copies of the letter requesting authority to use 
a· subject as a confidential source should consist only of the first 
pa,ge of the letter, If the request is approved at the Burt::au, a 
stamped notation will be placed on the single-page copy and it will 
be returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to 
consider subject as a confidential.source. Letters requesting such 
authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau. until subject is 
sufficiently co operative and all necessary background information 
o.btained. . 
6. Security confidential sources - certification of stability and payments 
a. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitt.t:d to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security confidential 
sources. See 107:N', litem]3b, for form of letter. 
b. If the security source is not bein-t paid on Bureau authorization[ or 
if he is not an employee of a foreign diplomatic establishment or 
an international organization]and is being used regularly, the 
Agent handling th'e source must dictate a memorandum to the SAC for 
the file containing the same certification as to stabil~ty and 
reliability as required by paymqnt letters. 
[c. If the security confidential source is employed by a foreig'n diplo­
matic establishment (embassy, consulate, United Nations Mission, 
etc.) or by an internaiional organization (United Nations Secre­
tariat, Organization of American States, Internationa_l Monetary 
Fund, etc,), a letter of justification should b~ submitted ·to the 
Bureau every fo~r months. See 107N,[item]3b, for form of letter.] 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources since ~uch actions might be 
misconstrued. 
8. • Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau of the date when confidential source is discontinued, . 
and the reasons therefor. 
28 
5-12-67 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1ti07 
( 
( 
