[ 
1.07B - C 
9 •. 
J.O. 
S:ECTIO:a SECURITY INFOPJ.1ANTS AND CON.EN~T.AL SOURCBS 
Investigation of communist petition signers who are acqua.intea with 
Communist· Party functionaries 
,... 
Be alert to recei-ve any sugges·'Gions • of plant execui;i ves. and highly placed 
personnel who are reliable and friendJ.y to the Bureau concerning members 
... 
of s-g.b-versi-ve organ.izations who might cooperate wi-th the Bureau. or employ­
ees who might be willing to infiltrate a subversive organization. In the 
past such contacts have on occasion resulted in the plant's making avail­
able -the services of' an employee who already is an. info_rmant .. of -'i;he .manage-
ment. • 
11. Personnel directors in plants :frequently are 2.ble to adtise of members of 
conm:-u,nist-do:mi:nated. unions who retain their membership merely to hold 
thei:..~ po:d tio-;,-i.s. 
120 With regard to both 10 a:o.d ll above~ if possible:, ·l;he of:ficii:>.l nhould 
sugges·l; -l;o the poten·Ha.l in:fo:r-:raa.nt that he con.tac·!; the Bureau rather· 
than have an .Agent originate the con.tact. 
13. .After ·the Bur-eau has notified the armed forces of a communi~ ·!; in an indus­
trial plant ha.Ying armed forces contracts, the communis·l; frequently recan·i;s 
when he is informed o-f the charges a.nd is :facing the possibility o:f dis­
mi·ssal or transfer' to a nonrestricted :position in the same plant. At 
such a time, officers friendly ·to the Bureau sometimes s-u.ggest that 
the person advise the Bureau of his past activities •. Be alert to take. 
2.dvantage of such cooperation when offered. 
14. Review of Communist Party registration records ·to ascertain \'fhat indi vid­
uals merely r.egistered bu·l; never became active 
15. Use of a reliable third party ·to make the contaot·with a possi-ble inform­
ant when direct contao-'G by an .Agent is inadvisable. Request Bureau to 
furnish the services of au individ1.1al who is available for such e. contact. 
16. Officials 2.nd employees of foreign es·l;ab:,J..ishments in the_ u. s. 
17. Employees of the Uni•ted Nations Secretariat 
18. Contacts {business., soc:i.al 9 or otherwise) of foreign officials stati.oned 
in the u. s. • • 
19. Individuals who because of background, employment, or social status are 
in a position of intellfgence interest to a foreign principal and vrhci 
will undertake intelligence assignments under the guidance of ·the 
Bureau. ( See deseco program., sec·l;ion 105K_, 6h.? -volume IT, of this manual • .} 
C. INVESTIGATION OF POTENTIAL SECURITY INFORM.ANTS 
When a decision made to consider a particular individual for informant pur­
poses, background investigation must be conducted. This should consist of 
the following: 
1. Check of field office files for derogatory information, particularly 
of a subversive natu:re 
2.. Discreet canvass of(logical]info:rmants to ascertain if the potential 
informant is known to current informants of your office 
3. Inquiries of discreet nature to obtain information concerning the i:,.Jiivid­
ual's personal history (date and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, . •1th, 
reliability, s·!;abili ty, in·!;egri ty, general repu·hation, present· and r· :·· ·l; 
employments, and business connections. ·Background investigation mus·l; 
definitely establish that the potential informant can b~ utilized.without 
any danger of fu.ture embarrassment due ·l;o instability or unreliability. 
Securi.ng backgr_ound information from the potential informani, ts not _. 
sufficient·; the b·ackground o:f ·!;he ihdi vidual must be established by the 
in-vestigation. 
4 0 Check of local credit and a:rres·!; records. Obtain necessary data for 
the completion ·of an FD-9 form which should be transmitted to the Identi­
fication Division to obtain the record, if any, of the informant. 
5. Armed services record should be re-viewed i:f the individual is a -veteran. 
6. Check draf·!; status or status in the armed :forces reserve .. 
7. Domestic sta·l;v.s and if any marital difficulties all details should be 
obtained. 
, ·NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1587 
4 
5-12-61 
/ 
