13-00000 
. ji • 
I will continue to draw my salary as Dean of the Henry Kendall 
College of Arts and Sciences at The University of Tulsa. 
2. Indicate any investments, obligations, liabilities, or other 
relationships which could involve potential conflicts of 
interest in the position to which you have been nominat,ed. 
I know of no investments, obligations, liabilities, or other 
relationships which would involve a conflict of interest, real 
or potential. 
3. Describe any business relationship, dealing or financial 
transaction which you . have bad during the last 10 years, 
whether for yourself, on behalf of a client, or acting·as an 
agent, that could in any way constitute or result in a 
possible conflict of interest in the position to. which you 
have been nominated. • ~>- .• , 
i 
1· know of no business or other relationships, dealings,· or 
financial transactions occurring in the last· 10 years that 
pose any conflict of interest. • • 
4. Describe any activity during the past 10 years in which you 
have engaged for the purpose of directly or indirectly 
influencing the passage, defeat or modification of any 
legislation or affecting the admin_istration and execution of 
law or public policy.· 
I have no engaged in any activity during the past- 10 years 
that has involved directly or indirectly influencing the 
passage, defeat or modification of any legislation. 
5. Explain how you will resolve any potential conflict of 
interest, • including . any that may be disc::losed by your 
responses to the above items. (Please provide copies of any 
trust or other agreements.) 
In light of the above, no response is required. 
6. Do you agree to have written opinions provit!ed to the 
Committee by the designated agency ethics officer of the 
agency to which you are nominated and by the Off ice of 
Government Ethics concerning potential conflicts of interest 
or any legal impediments to your serving in this position? 
Yes, I agree to have written opinions provided by the ethics 
officer of the appropriate agency and/or by the Office of 
Government Ethics .. 
17 
