13-00000 
-
··.•.•.· ·.·.-.· .. ~-.. 
:<:~#-
·:.::~-,~~~ 
•.:••:--r"\: 
. . 
Mr. HOOVER. Thank you. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Hoover, I hand you Exhibit 863 and ask you to examine 
that and state whether or not that is the letter that .you referred to in which 
you answered questions of the Commission concerning the National Enquirer 
magazine or newspaper? 
Mr. HOOVER. This letter of May 8 addressed to the Commission is the letter 
that dealt with our interview with Chief Curry and was predicated upon the 
article which appeared in the National Enquirer of May 17, 1964. 
Mr. RANKIN. I ask you if you would care to add anything to that letter except 
what you have already testified to? • 
Mr. HOOVER. No; I _have nothing to add to that. Chief Curry was very spe­
cific, I am told by my agent in charge at Dallas, that this article is an absolute 
lie; that none of these things set forth in the article occurred; that he received 
no phone call or any request of any kind oral or by phone or in writing from 
the Department of Justice or from the FBI. As I stated earlier, the report 
from the Department of Justice indica,ted that they made no request. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Chairman, I offer in evidence ExhibLt 863, being the letter 
just referred to. • 
The CHAIRMAN. It may be admitted. 
(The document referred to was marked Omunission Exhibit No. 863 for 
identification and received in evidence.) 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Hoover, is Exhibit 837 the article that you referred. to in 
the National Enquirer? • 
Mr. HOOVER. Yes; that is the one. 
Mr. RANKIN. I call your attention to Exhibit 836 and ask you if that is the 
letter that you referred to which describes the criteria in the handling of the 
security of the President that you have described in your testimony. 
Mr. HOOVER. This is the letter. It sets forth the criteria which were adopted, 
originally about 1942 and later incorporated in the manual of instructions in 
1954. It also includes the amended instructions to our field offices, prepared 
in December of 1963, which extended the criteria. 
Mr. RANKIN. Does that Exhibit correctly set forth the information you had 
in regard to those matters? 
Mr. HooVER. It does. 
Mr. RANKIN. Do you care to add anything to it? 
Mr. HOOVER. No ; I have nothing to add to it at all. 
Mr. RANKIN. Now, in .light of what happened. Mr. Hoover, I think the Com­
mission would desire to have your comments or whatever you care to tell them, 
concerning the reasons why you did not furnish the information you had con­
cerning Lee Harvey Oswald to the Secret Service prior to the time of the Presi-
dent's assassination. • 
Mr. HoovER. Well, I have gone into that very thoroughly because that was 
obviously one of the questions· that I had in my mind when the tragedy occurred 
in Dallas. 
In going back over the record, and I have read each one of the reports dealing 
with that and the reports of Mr. Hosty who had dealt with the Oswald situa­
tion largely in Dallas, we had the matter that I have previously referred to, the 
report of the State Department that indicated this man was a thoroughly safe 
risk, he had changed bis views, he was a loyal man now and had seen the light 
of day, so to speak. 
How intensive or how extensiv~ that interview in Moscow was, I don't know. 
But, nevertheless, it was in a State- Department document that was furnished 
to us. • 
Now, we interviewed Oswald a few days after he arrived. We did not inter­
view him on arrival at the port of entry because that is always undesirable by 
reason of the fact it is heavily covered by press, and any relatives generally 
are there, so we prefer to do it after the man has settled down for two or three 
days and become composed. We do it in the privacy of our office or wherever 
he may be, or in his own home or apartment. We interviewed him twice in 
regard to that angle that we were looking for. We had no indication at this 
time of anything other than his so-called Marxist leanings, Marxist beliefs. 
111 
