, I > ,.. 
cduc,1tc our young c,>11111ruicro,:. This doc~n't rnr,111 we 
do not feel solidMitv t0\\',1!'d ll,1ti,,ns thJt Jrc strur>1'lin,~ . . L'1.., t'., 
,111d suffering, like the \'cnc'rnclc1n pt·ople. But it is up 
to those 11,1tions to decide \\'hat they \\',,nt, .rnd if the\' 
choose other regimes th,m ours, this isri't our business_;, 
"We Hnve Aiwnys Lived witlz Om1gcr" 
. I asked Fidel where is this <1!1 going to end? How will 
the situatic 1 n develop: Even if the Uriited States uses 
against you what you oil the alibi of Communism, it 
,;till rc111ni11s .true t/1,:t you l1m1c cl1c1,cn Co1111111111ism, 
that your economy and your security depend on the 
Soviet Union, and that ewn if you ha\·c no ulterior mo­
tives in this. association, still the United States cnnsidcrs 
that you are part, of ,111 international 5tr,1tcgy, that you 
constitute a Soviet b,1se in J world where peace depends 
on mutual respect for a t,1cit division of zones of in­
fluence. 
"I don't w.mt to discuss our tics with the Soviet 
Union," Fidel Castro mt me short. "I find this indcc:ent. 
\Ve have none but feelings of fraternity Jnd profound, 
total gratitude .to\\'ard the USSR. The Russi:ins arc 
making extrJordinary efforts on our behalf, efforts 
which sometimes cost thcni dear. But we have our own 
policies which ,ire perhaps 1\ot ,1lways the same (we 
have proved tliis !) ,1s those of the USSR. l refuse to 
dwell on this point, because asking rne to say that I am 
not a pawn on the Soviet che5:~is something like 
asking a wom:in to shout aloud in the public s_quJrc 
that she is not a prostitute. 
"If the United SL1tes. secs the problem as you h:ive 
posed it, then you arc ri1:;ht, thrre is no way out. t3ut 
who is the loser in the last Jnaiysis? They have tried 
everything against us, everything; absolutely every­
thing, and we are still alive and 6etting better day by 
day; we arc still standing upright, :ind we plan to cete­
br:ite wi_th greater festivities than usual, on January 1, 
1964, the fifth m111ivcr::ary of the Cuban Revolution! 
The United States' policy of isolating us economicJlly 
is less effective with each p:issing day; we are incre,1s­
ing our tr,1de with the rest of the world. Even with' 
Spain! We have just sold a shipn1cnt of 300,000 tons 
of sugar to the SpJni,1rds. L1r from discour:iging us, 
the blockade is maintaining the revolutionary :itmos­
pherc we need to stiffei1 the country's backbone. Arc we 
in danger? i·Vc have .1lways lived with d:inger. To say 
nothing of the fact that you have no idea how 111,rny 
friends one discovers in the world when one is pcr~c­
cutl'tl by the United StJ~I\J;<wo trulv, for ,ill these' 
rca~s, ~ve arc not suppli,1nts, we ;'sk nothing. I'll 
tell you something else: since the rupture and the 
blockade, we have forgotten the United St:ites. We fed 
neither hatred nor resentment any more, we simply 
don't think :ibout the US. When I think of the problems 
20 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 520 
l'.'!1ich di1~lom,1tic rcbtions with the United St:ite~ 
1-.·c,uld pos'c! The Swiss Ambassador ~presenting the 
L'S at prc"scnt. I prefer to do business with him than 
\\'ith 200 members of an Embassy among whom surely 
some spies would be spotted. 
"l have j~ist t:ilkcd to you as a Cuban revolutionary. 
Gut I should also speak to you as a pc.:ice lover, and 
frnm this viewpoint I believe the United States is too 
important J country not to have an influence on world 
pc,1ce. I c,innot help hoping, therefore, th:it a leader 
will come lo the fore in North America (why not Ken­
nedy, there arc things in his favor!), who will be ·..villing 
to brave unpopularity, fight the trusts, tell the truth 
and, most important, let the various nations act· as 
'.hey sec iit. I ask nothing: neither dollars, nor assist­
,1nce, nor diplum,1ts, nor bankers, nor milit..uy men·-
1wthing hit pc,1ce, ,1nd to be accepted as we :ire.! \Ve 
arc 5,1cialists, the United States is ,1 c1pit,1list nation, 
the L:itin .Amcric.rn countries will choose what they 
want. All· the same, :it a time when the United StJtes 
is selling whe:it to the Russians, Cai1ada is trading with 
China, de G:iulle respects Uen Bella, why should it be • 
impossible to make the Amcric:ins understand that .. 
socialism leads, not to hostility toward them, but to co­
existence? Why am I not Tito or Sekou Toure? Because 
the Russians have never done us any injury such as • 
tl;e Yugosl,wians Jnd the Guinc:ins have complained 
of in the past, and because the Americans have never 
given us any of the benefits for which these two nation5 
congratulJtc themselves today. 
"As to this matter cif fe:iring Soviet in'.entions in 
Latin America through Cuba's sub\'crsive activitil':. 
this is just attributing to others one's own desire tv 
• doznin:ite. You said yourself just a little while ago tha, 
the Rtissi:ins have had enough of their Cuban involve·­
mcnt. Economically this is obvious. This is why, speak­
ing from a military viewpoint, it is better not to force 
nations io turn to the Russians for help. Re:illy, it 
seems to me that a man like Kennedy is capable of 
seeing thJt it is not in the United St:ites' interest to 
pursue a polic),'.,,_which can lead only to a stalemate. So 
far as we are concerned, everything can be restored to 
normalcy on the basis of mutual respect of sover­
eignty." 
In conclusion, Fidel Ca5tro said to me: "Since you 
arc going to sec KcnnrJy ag,1in, be an emissary of 
pc.ice, despite everything. I want to m:ikc myself clear: 
I don't w,rnt :inything, I don't expect anything, and 
,1s a revolutionary the present situ:1lil1ri docs not dis­
please me. But .as a man and as a statcs~~n, it is. my 
duty to indicate what the bases for understanding 
could be." 
All this w:is said two days before President Ken­
nedy's de:ith. 
