' 
' : . 
i' 
11.&. ~oust of 1'tprcsentatibt£) 
OFFICE OF THE CLERK 
OFFIC::E OF FINANCE 
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO EMPLOYEE 
Newly employed personnel must execute the aff~ched combined PAYROLL INFORMATION FORM 
and PERSONNEL AFFIDAVIT properly and submit _them to the Office of Finance, where a Notary Public 
is en duty to perform this service without charge. DO NOT SIGN PERSONNEL AFFIDAVIT UNTIL BEFORE 
A NOTARY. 
Currently employed personnel wishing to make changes in their records need only complete the perti­
nent section of the PAYROLL INFORMATION FORM, indicate their employing office, and affix their signa• 
+ure. Please be certain that information is legible enough for the Finance Office' to identify the individual 
making the chanse. 
DETACH AND RETAIN THIS NOTICE 
Salary payments are made· by check monthly and mailed to the address designat.ed on the Payroll 
• Information Form. Checks are disbursed from the Office of Finance to normally reach the addressee on the 
last working day of each month. 
For additional. information, contact the Office of Finance, 263 Cannon Office Building, Telephone 
Extension 56515 Qr 57064. _ 
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
. RETIREMENT: An employee of the House of Representatives is eligible to join the Fed~ral Civil 
Service Retirement System. Participation is voluntary, and action to elect retirement coverage may be 
initiated at any time by con1pleting the appropriate section of the Payroll Information Form~· Once an 
election is filed and the normal deduction of 7½ percent of the gross salary commences, the. employee 
cannot discontinue deductions so long as he is continuously employed. (Note: Legislative employees are 
not covered by the Social Security Act.) 
LIFE INSURANCE: An employee is automatically covered under the Federal Employees' Group 
Life Insurance Act unless he waives or subsequently cancels such coverage by filing the required waiver 
form withthe'Offiee of Finance. The insurance coverage is $10,000; or an amount equal to the_gross annual 
salary, rounded to the next higher thousand dollars (if the salary is not a multiple of a thousand dollars), 
plus an additional two thousand dollars; whichever is the greater. Additional optional insurance coverage 
in the amount of $10,000 is also available. 
HEALTH BENEFITS : The Federal Employees' Health Benefits Program is available on a voluntary 
• basis with costs partly financed by the Government. Within 31 days after the effective date of appointment, 
every employee must regist.er to enroll in a plan or not to enroll. Future opportunities to· enroll or to change 
the type of enrollment are shown in the enclosed pamphlet. Also enclosed is the necessary registration form, . 
Standard Form 2809. 
_ U.S. SA VIN GS BONDS: Monthly deductions for bonds in regular bond denominations may be 
authorized. Authorization cards are available in the Finance Office. 
WORK INJURY BENEFITS:· An employee injured or incurring disease as a result of performance 
of duty is entitled to medical care and monetary benefits under the provisions of the Federal Employees' 
Compensation Act. In instances where such injury or disease is fatal, the employee's family is entitled to 
monetary benefits. The Compensation Act is adn1inistered by the Bureau of Employees' Compensation, 
U.S. Department of Labor. Forms for filing notices of injury and claims for compensation are available 
in the Office of Finance or from any Postmaster. 
UNEMPLOYMENT COl\f PENSA TI ON: An employee may under certain circumstances be entitled 
to unemployment compensation if discharged or otherwise separated from his. employment. The com­
pensation is usually payable by'the State (including the District of Columbia) in which the employee had 
his last service. However, a claim for benefits may be filed in the local office nearest the employee's 
residence. If an employee is discharged for misconduct, quits voluntarily without good cause, or refuses a· 
suitable job without goQd cause, then there is a period of disqualification which varies from State to State. 
The amount of payments and period of tin1e payable also varies from State to State. 
C o ]6-82058-1 
' I ' 
' ' 
_____ _;..) 
Page 12 
r---- -
I 
r· 
i 
I 
\ 
