Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan 
RE: -LUNCHEON ENGAGEMENT OF THE DIRECTOR 
WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND 
MR. SARGENT SHRIVER, DIRECTO~ OF THE 
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY 
DURING WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 18, 1967 
Washington, D, C. 
Individuals affiliated with two organizations funded ; 
in part by OEO were involved in the disturbance which occurred 
in the House of Representatives on 8/7/67 in protest of the 
shelving of the so-called "Rat Bill." The leader, Jesse Gray, 
a former Communist Party organizer in Harlem and a militant black 
nationalist, is the head of the Harlem Back Str_eet Youth, Incor­
porated, which was the recipient of OE"O funds. Such funds have 
since been suspended. Gray and at least one other member of the 
above organization were arrested for their part in this disturbance. 
Also involved in this disturbance and arrested was Robert Bailey 
\ 
Ransom, an employee of Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) 
Associates, an CEO-funded organization. 
Hate-type Schools 
The New York City Police Department advised on 8/9/67 
that the walls of a school handling a program entitled "Special 
Training in Reading" for children 8 to 10 years of age contained 
numerous hate slogans. Examples of the signs noted thereon were 
"Don't love them to death, shoot them to death; make revolution 
not war; burn, baby, burn; arm yourselves; Johnson is losing 
sleep; Newark, '67; Chicago South Side, '66; Watts, '65, and 
Harlem, '64." There was :also a picture of President Johnson's 
face superimposed on an Army sergeant carrying a rifle captioned 
"Public Enemy Number One, Wanted for Murder." The committee 
·handling this particular program was funded in part by OEO. 
" 
A somewhat similar situation occurred in Nashville, 
Tennessee, in connection with a "Liberation School" which has 
been in opeTation teaching 10-and 11-year-olds. Antipoverty 
funds from OEO had been earmarked for the school; however, the 
funds were•withdrawn when national publicity resulted concerning 
this matter. Meantime, however, certain services including the 
~ental of an automobile and school supplies had been furnished. 
- 3 -
NW 3 ............ ,._.:321-"'L·"h,d 
Page 525 
