SECRET - 17 -
Penetration of· E~bassies in the United States 
telligence infor~ation throug 
action which sh.)ul:i 'have been 
Information Obtain:!d From Tax Returns 
Papich is W1a.1.;a::-e of any instance where CIA has made use of tax returns 
to obtain infornation on Americans. ·* 
PAPICH'S PHILOSOPHY AND MISCELLA.i\:EOUS ITEMS 
It is Papich' s belief that while the intelligence services of the United 
States presently obtain great amounts of infonnation through new techno­
logical developi:ients, they are still unable to read the minds of the 
leaders of foretgn countries. Consequently, they must attempt to pene­
trate through cla..-ridestine efforts. The only way to successfully penetrate 
is to permit those conducting the operation to go about their business 
unburdened by numerous reporting requirements. Papich's philosophy is 
"If you want the job done right, give we X number of men and leave me 
alone." He questions whether this philosophy can be adopted in the United 
States in 1975, as faith in the leadership is an essential factor. He be­
lieves that such operations can be controlled and overseen by the Director 
of the CIA, the Director of the FBI, and the President. 
Papich indicated that the differences between Hoover and Sullivan have 
nothing to do with CIA. Hoover was convinced that all dissident groups 
were directed by the Comrmmist Party, whereas Sullivan disagreed. These 
differences affected the Hoover-Sullivan relationship only after Papich 
retired. 
Papich believes that the FBI lost stability when A. H. Belmont (the No. 3 
man at the time) retired in 1967. He presently resides in Pal~ Alto> 
California. Belmont was loyal to Hoover, but he had excellent rapport 
with the agents and could put things in their proper perspective. In 
fact, Belmont ~ .. as most useful in resolving differences_ between CIA and Hoover. 
Bclr.iont's successors (DeLoach and Sullivan) could not measure up. 
JNR/vmr 
CC: D.Belin SECRET 
Senior Cour:sels 
NW 50955 Docld:32203861 Page 6 
