[6E - G] PART II 
F. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Auxiliary offices are to advise the -office of origin by letter of the 
results obtained through a circul_a:r letter. Office o.f origin should. 
summarize the results in its next report. 
One copy of the circular letter is to be filed. A list of a~dresse~s is to 
be attached. Upon the receipt of a reply, the addressee 1 s name is to be 
checked to indicate this fact. Replies which .are entirely negative 
sho'uld not be filed unless there is reason for doing so. Only negative 
replies·are to be destroyed after handling in accordance.with item 3. 
above. Sub-A files may be used when the number of replies to be filed 
is large. 
A 66 file may be opened to retain copies of circular letters distributed 
~n ord~r to facilitate the handling of incoming inquiries and replies. 
·Only one copy of each circular letter is to be filed ther&in. If· the- 66 
file is maintained, the material therein is to be destroyed after it is a 
year old if it is no longer needed. 
Circular letters and other information to be distributed or released to 
the· public mus.t be so worded as :tq be unobjectionable to 'any race, creed, 
or religion. 
Trade publications may, with advance Bureau approval, be used to publicize 
information concerning fugitives known to be active in particular trades, 
businesses, or professions. The field office where the publication is 
located should check its indices concerning the publication, as well as 
the person or p~rsons who will have to be contacted, before seeking Bureau 
approval, and sufficient identifying data should be furnished so that ah 
appropriate.Bureau indices check may be ~ade. 
RADIO BRO·J1-DC.ASTS 
Radio broadcasts without advance Bureau approval may be made in.hot-pursuit 
fugitive oases .. care must be exercised in br.oadcasting_a lioepse number 
believed used by fugitive as it may be disposed of to an innocent third per­
son. 
G. FIELD OFFICE LISTS 
l. Law enforcement officials 
On March l· of each year all field offices shall forward to the Bureau 
a communication pertaining to a list of law enforcement officials and 
.agencies whose cooperation might be helpful. One of the two following 
proce·dure s should be used: . 
a. {l} On March l of each year all field offices sh~ll forward to 
the Bureau in duplicate, and with a space left bet~een the of­
ficials of each Department, the li~t desc~ibed above. Iddic•te 
by an asterisk any change which was not· previously called 
to the Bureau's attention. 
!
al Chiefs of police 
b Sheriffs 
c State police or highway patrol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
d U.S. Marshals and deputies· 
e Ranking Federal law enforcement officers 
f Wardens of penal institutions 
g District attorneys ~r county prosecutors 
h Railway police {if desirable) 
i Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins 
j Any other officials who receive identification orders 
(2) Changes in the list are to be reported in duplicate to the 
Bureau as they occur. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 240 
3a 
8-27-73 
( 
( 
