( 
( 
I 
t 
E. 
PART II 6D - E 
SECTION 6.. PUBLICATIONS , PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
4. Do not: 
a. Identify law enforcement officers by name but by title and NA affilia-
tion 
b. Show aliases of subjects of Dependents Assistance Act of 1950 
c. Show aliases o~ Tictims of WSTA caaes 
d. Use complicated sentence structure 
e. Use technical references to statutes 
f, Express personal opinions 
g. Reveal identity of confidential infor~ants 
h. Use Bureau expressions like "the subject" and "the Bureau'' 
i. Prepare interesting case write-ups on juveniles, sex offenders, and 
p_arole violators but submit these by letter 
j. Use adjectives excessively 
5o Transmittal . 
Set forth all data necessary for Bureau·•s consideration at the beginning 
of write-up and then follow with interesting case datao Transmit by 
routing slip, Attention: External Affairs Divisiono 
60 Dissemination . 
[Field Offices wi~l be advised by routing slip when new write-ups are pre­
paredo If copies are desired; an appropriate letter should be submitted 
to the Bureau, Attention: External Affairs Division, setting forth the 
specific use for which the write-up is intendedo In instances where 
write-ups, either those. previously prepared or those to be published in the 
future, may be released outside the Bureau, it will be necessary to first 
obtain Bureau approvalo 
'lo Interesting case control file 
A copy of all communications concer~ing the dissemination ·of write-ups 
outside the Bureau is to be pla~ed in the Interesting Case Control fileo 
These communications should contain the_ identity of the person. to whom _.th~ 
write-up is being made available, .as .well as the purpose for which it is. to . 
be used .. ] · 
CIRCULAR LETTERS, TRADE AND BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS 
lo Circular letters must be approved in advance by the Bureau and sent in by 
the office initiating the requesto 
2. SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-
type institutions within their own divisions to expedite circularization 
of known serial numbers of money included in the loot taken-·1n a bank 
robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny. On a highly sele~tive basis, 
on approval of the SAC, leads may be set out to contiguous offices to 
circularize banking-type institutions in those divisions, and the Bureau 
should be notified that this action is being taken unless advised to 
the contrary. Communications setting out such leads must include s~f­
ficient facts to enable the Bureau to properly evaluate-and justify the 
additional circuiarization. In all other cases prior Bureau approval 
must be obtained in accordance with existing rules governing circular 
letters. In all instances the circular letter must include the followin~: 
a. A brief concise statement concerning the bank robbery, bank burglary, 
or bank larceny and the fact that included in thi loot or money 
taken was money, the serial numbers of which are known 
b. List of known serial numbers according to denomination, series year 
if known, alphabetical order, and numerical sequence _ 
c. A statement that the matter is to be treated confidentially 
d. A cautionary statement that no bank employee should take any action 
which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety 
e. The address and the telephone number of the field office with a 
statement that any person should contact the field office by calling 
collect 
3 
5-28-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Page 1106 
