• 
I did see the letter from the White House saying the report 
had been approved. I believe it was signed by Huston and stated 
the President had approved the recommendations. I was aware 
Mr. Hoover had either written or seen Attorney General Mitchell 
expressing his reluctance and was aware the White House letter was 
withdrawn. I din 1t know why it was withdrawn other than this 
occurred after Mr. Hoover went to the Attorney General. 
Mr. Johnson asked certain specific questions during or 
after the above discussion. He asked what covert mail coverage 
was involved since CIA in 1970 was engaged in covert mail inter­
ception. A:fter checking with Mr. Leon F. Schwartz of the FBI, 
Mr. Johnson was advised that while I had been released from my 
pledge of confidentiality by the FBI in general with regard to the 
Huston Committee this matter was under review by the Department 
_of Justice and I had not been released from my pledge on this 
aspect. A similar answer was given to the question about what 
was meant by the removal of restrictions on the use of surreptitious 
entry oi embassies io obi:.ain crypiographic rnai:.e:c'ials. 
Mr. Johnson asked if I thought the Huston Committee had 
been instigated by Bill Sullivan to more or less force Mr. Hoover 
to take a more aggressive stance in intelligence collection. I 
answered that I would not like to speculate on this and I could not 
make a definite statement yes or no. 
~ 
He asked why the Working Group met at CIA as opposed to 
the FBI and whether this had special meaning. I answered that I 
did not think so, that the US Intelligence Board was headed by the 
Director of CIA, was concerned with intelligence collection and 
met at CIA and also meeting arrangements could probably be better 
arranged at CIA in view of parking, conference rooms, etc . 
. 
He said Admiral Gayler had stated that he and his predecessor, 
Gen. Carter, had tried to get Mr. Hoover to provide more support to 
NSA with regard to Communications Intelligence and asked if I was 
aware of any such efforts, and if they were in person or in writing. 
I said I was aware that Gen. Carter and Adm. Gayler had asked for 
support and I believe they might have seen Mr. Hoover personally 
and perhaps had written him. 
- 3 -
NW 38316 Docld:32989627 19 
