87F 
I .. 
13. 
14. 
-t'I 
SECURITY INVESTIGATI01.-
regarding subject's entry into armed forces. Disseminate copy of 
report or LHM locally to appropriate military intelligence agency 
and furnish copies to Bureau for dissemination at headquarters level. 
Place case in closed status. 
Remove subject from ADEC. File geographical card for subject in case 
file marked "canceledn and destroy alphabetical card. Set administrative 
tickler and each six months make appropriate inquiry to determine if 
subject has bezn discharged. Make such checks locally, through pre-
text if neces.:-ary, and, if necessary, submit letter requesting check 
by field office covering records of appropriate service. 
When subject returns to civilian status, determine whether his 
activities still warrant inclusion in ADEX. If so, submit complete 
FD-122 as if initial recommendation being made, and current reporto 
If not, advise Bureau of reasons. 
e. Security informants 
Card may be destroyed upon receipt of Bureau authority to designate 
person security informant. In requesting Bureau authority to designate 
individual as security informant, call attention to ADEX card and 
recom.~end.cancellation. 
f. Subject no longer dangerous or potentially dangerous 
Frequently information is received or investigation develops that 
subject no longer.represents threat to internal security by reason of 
physical condition, defection, or expufslon from subversive movement. 
Such defection may be shown by lack of activity and obvious disinterest 
over extended period, or by open declaration. In such cases, interview 
of subject should be recommended unless there are specific reasons to 
the contrary. • 
C 
In· all cases recommendation for removal from the ADBX should be made 
by FD-122 with attached succinct summary of facts on which the recom-
mendation is basedo Submit abstract with FD-122. ( 
Administrative procedures regarding category designation5 \._ 
a. Changes in category 
When facts warrant changing category designation for a particular 
subjectt submit FD-122 indicating change to be made and attach additional 
page setting forth brief summary of facts supporting this recommendationo 
b. Colors of ADEX cards 
ADEX cards Kill be the following colors: 
Category I - beige 
·category II - green 
Category III - white 
Category IV - yellow 
In 'both geographical and alphabetical sections of ADEC there should be 
no separate sequence of cards by category level. Of course, if necessary 
to identify subjects of any one category, for administrative purposes 
or otherwise, this ceuld be accomplished readily by reference to the 
particular color involved. 
Individuals employed in or having access to key facilities 
a. Responsibility 
FBI is responsible by Presidential directive to advise interested 
Federal agencies of developments affecting plants having armed forces 
contracts, as well as other facilities, utilities, and critical points 
of transportation and communications systems which ·have been designated 
vital to national defense by Department of Defense. Under Delimitations 
Agreement FBI is responsible for investigating employees of private 
40 
4-13-72 
! I 
I 
- I i 
