I .. 
U. S. SEMATE SELECT COMUITTEB 
TO STUDY GOVEiuU!ENTAL OPERA"l'IOUS 
Wl'm RESPECT TO lliTELLIGEllCE ACTIVITIES (SSC) 
R2: lNTEJt,Vl.l1W OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
FRED J. CASSIDY BY SSC .STAFF 1.1EMBER 
Mr. Johnson asked if I was aware of who wa.s tho 
instigator of the Huston Plan. X told him I had no di~cct 
knowle~ge but would suspect it was w. c. Sullivan, Huston, or 
possibly forw.or Assistant Attorney General Robert lh.rdian; 
however. the answer to his question would h~,ve to be obtained 
from those individua1s o~ such ~oco~as as he may be able to 
locate. 
He aslted my impression of Tom. Charlos I-Ius-ton. I told 
hint I felt IIuston was a very bright you11g man who saw this. plan 
as an opportunity to become the Itenry IUssinger of domestic 
security and thereby enhance himself and h.is polit~cal career. 
Mr. Johnson stated that his investigation bad developed 
that Sullivan at. tho outset of the plan appeared to want to push 
through the plan; however, he ae¢med to trute a direct turnabout 
and began to advise Mr.. !Ioovor against adopting some -of tho 
Proposals being made by the various ·participating agencies. He 
said it was his impression tllat this turnabout occurred at tho 
time Sullivan was promoted to Number Three l~n in tho Bureau. 
He asked if I could shed any light on this turn of events. 
I told Aw. Johnson tb.a.t I could not speak :for Sullivan 
and could only give him my impression of what occurred, that being 
at the outset of tho plan Sullivan truly felt this was a golden 
opportunity to get tho coverage back, and tlocided to lay his job 
on the line to accomplish this. Yl,llen he was movod up to the 
Number Three job, I felt he saw the opportunity to ~omeday become 
the Director of the FBI. Ftwthcr, as tho drafts of the plan were 
being written, Sullivan realized that sooner or later litr. IIoover 
would see them ~nd at that time reali~e that Sullivan had dissem­
inated to th~ intelligence community all of the restraints 
Mr. Hoover bttd imposed on the :uB!. 
NW 38326 Docld:32989653 56 
-' ·-
-
