( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
a. 
10. 
11. 
13. 
14. 
SEC','rION 107. SEClJRITY INFO.R:M.ANTS[.AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] 
Instruct eaoh 
semination of 
above. 
inte.ted Bureau offioe vrhich ha·s ml) further 
suoh information to follow the instru~tions set 
dis­
forth 
107S ._ U 
Also set up a control file regarding this corrective action, and upon 
completion of same submit to the Bureau a final letter under the in­
formant's caption identifying each case by title, character, Bureau file, 
where knovm, and date of communication • 
. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files to see 
that necessary corrective action has been taken in each instance. 
If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
the informant should also be requested to submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been made. 
It is imperati-ve that all information fro_m the informant be correctly 
-labeled and great care must be taken. to see that this is done. 
Occasionally, ~.n ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of 
the information attributed to that individual in the absence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was an informant, 
Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be made in accordance with pirt II, 
section 5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
T. CLASSIFICATION - 134 
u. CONFID]NTIAL"SOURCES 
1. Definition 
(See page 3 of this section.] 
2, Assignment of symbols 
a. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem. 
exists, or if typing would be saved. 
b, Advise Bureau by lette1· giving name, address, "business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol nmnber, and a brief 
statement concerni11g ·type of information furnished. 
c, The abbreviation 11CS11 may be used in intra-Burea.u communications 
for confideritial source. [Communications relating to espionage and 
foreign nationality matters should in addition have a character 
indicating the countl·y involved; e.g., ]IS - R for Russia,] 
d. When ·a perm:rnen·t symbol has been assigned to a conficlential source, 
the li',bbreviation 11CS" is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS NY--000-S. • 
e. Symbol numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken fr,om 
the series of symbol numbers used for your security and criminal 
•• informants. 
-s. Index 
a. Index cards (3 by 5 inches) like those prepared for informants must 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant index 
01• the security informant index, depending on the type of information 
furnished. 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the symbol index on inform­
ants, 
c. Duplicate conf"idential source cards may be maintained with ·the 
criminal informant index and the security informant index if the 
.source furnishes information of value in both types of investiga­
tions. 
4. Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to an individual who 
has potential as a security confid
0
ential source, a 134 classification 
file shoura be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to dE•Velop the indi-vidual are discontinued, The same procedure should 
be followed conce:t•ning racial confid.ential sources, the classification 
being 137; Files may be opened on confidential sources in criminal 
ma~ters in a manner identical with that for handling criminal informant 
files in the discretion of the SAC. 
27-
2- 12 - 60 
". 
I 
i ! 
I I 
