( 
[ 
( 
2. 
• PART II • 
SECTION 6. PUBLIC.A.TI01TS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC COMT.lCTS 
Identification orders, wanted flyers,. check circ~lars, a;-nd apprehens.:.on 
orders 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individuals 
and organizations to which identification orders,· wante·d flyers, check 
circulars, .and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each field offi·ce must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent to 
firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organiz·ati ons. 
a; ·Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Bureau upon receipt of 
field request.· {The Bureau will prepare, on its own. initiative, 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Titl~ of position is­
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on 
the list. 
(1) The quality of the assistance the addressee is in a position to 
give 
(2
3
} The cooperation which has been afforded 
( ) The following must appear on the list: 
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division Missions Providing Lodgi~g 
Bureau of Customs Post Office Inspectors 
Cooperative Credit· Bureau? Postmasters 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Salvation Army 
•. ment Officers Secret Service 
FBINA Graduates U. s. Marshals 
3:ot els 
Immigration and Naturaliza­
tion Service 
·(4) The following may appear on the list: 
Automobile Clubs Movie Studios 
Banks Navy Shore Patrol 
County Attorneys Oil Company Special Agents 
.( 
County Coroners Parole and Probation Officers, 
Credit Companies Plant Quarantine Officers· \ 
-Detective Agencies Protective Associations 
Enlistm~nt Office~s, Race Tracks 
U. S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps Savings and Loan Associations 
Employment Service Service Recruiting Officers 
Fire Departments • State Hos-pi tals for Insane 
Forest Service Steamship Companies 
Gunsmiths Telegraph Companies 
Insurance Companies u. s. Attorneys 
-~ U. S. Commissioners 
- c. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specifi·o request 
Should a compelling reason exist for distribution of an identification 
•• order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employmei:..; 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for 
such·distribution. • • 
d. Give consideration to the desirability of circularizi.ng motels. 
[e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases.] 
4 
10:--27-59 
1 NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 384 
(' 
