TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
I. CIA Reporting during September 
34. The progressive uncovering of-the Soviet program in 
Cuba was reported in detail by CIA current intelligence. 
• Pertinent samples from the Checklist are: 
a. "The number of confirmed SAM sites remains at 
12, but the likelihood that others are undei con­
struction grows, with the latest evidence pointing to 
the Isle of Pines as one of the additional locations."­
(14 September) 
b. "A message intercepted":•yesterday • on a net 
serving Soviet forces in Germany called for 'volunteers 
for the protection of Cuba.' We are not sure ·of the • 
weight to be placed on this and another fnt'er,ce:pt:- . • 
referring to the isolation _of 'volunteers.' If Vl:llid, 
they.would suggest that the influx of Soviet military 
personnel to Cuba is not finished. We are investigating 
further. 11 (15 September) 
c. "We have spotted two more. Soviet passenger 
vessels en route to Cuba. Their arrival will raise 
our estimate of technicians on the scene to about 
. 4,-200. We are beginning to see some tenuous evidence 
foreshadowing the appearance of SAM sites in Camaguey 
Province." (18 September) • 
• d. "The ~nterce ptci,on·,':,on)liial~5~\~!S:e:preie"lm$er!t1tof,~1i;,ii Signal 
from a missile-associated radar, probably coming from 
the surface-to-air missile site at Mariel, suggests 
that the site is or soon will be operational. 
"The message asking for volunteers for service 
in Cuba, which we re ported Saturday-, has now cropped 
up on enough Soviet military radio nets to reveal that 
a fairly general recruiting campaign is going on. 
'rhere is no indication yet of the numbers involved." 
(19 September)· • 
e. "Evidence is still coming in on Moscow's 
_canvass of its military forces for volunteers to serve 
in Cuba. This activity is puzzling; we have never seen 
anything like it before. 
• "The move .. may be pt1rely administrative: to 
replace personnel who had been suddenly ordered there with­
·others prepared to stay for some· time. On the other hand, 
it could mean another sizable increment to Soviet personnel 
in Cuba or a belief in Moscow that its people are likely 
to be engaged in combat. We are trying to get a better 
answer." (21 September) 
-19-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
