13-00000 
PAGE 25 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
had made its greatest contributions. The first has to do with the Warren 
Commission. The review board's labors have resulted in many new documents that 
I believe will eventually remove the stigma that has been attached to the 
commission, which is probably the most unfairly reviled and/ or ridiculed entity 
ever created by the federal government. 
These records paint a sobering portrait of our federal government during a very 
traumatic time. It's not the idealized versions depicted in civics text books 
nor the demonized version featured on talk radio. It's the real federal 
government: imperfect, plodding, riven by ambition, distrust, rivalries, 
compartmentalized by secrecy, working at cross-purposes or in ignorance, 
simultaneously guided by the most banal bureaucratic instincts and the most 
elevated national concerns. Somehow, through all of that, it does struggle and 
manage to do the right thing. 
Besides the Warren Commission, I think the work of the review board has made a 
very substantial contribution towards understanding the operations of the 
intelligence community. The assassination necessarily caused what could only be 
termed a mobilization of the U.S. intelligence community's far-flung resources. 
The government had to determine that weekend who was responsible and whether the 
assassin or assassins had any co-conspirators either foreign or domestic. 
Consequently the records being released now constitute a gold mine of 
information about domestic and foreign intelligence operations at the midpoint 
of the cold war. These records not only shed new light on what the government 
knew 34 years ago; the release is an object lesson in why they were kept secret 
for all those years. They do not contradict the federal government's official 
conclusion at stated in the Warren report. Rather, the documents were kept 
secret because they disclosed or tended to disclose ongoing intelligence sources 
and methods. 
With the release of these documents, the intelligence community's record in the 
wake of the assassination can finally be assessed with some fairness and 
thoroughness. The fact is that the information provided by the FBI, CIA and 
other agencies was instrumental to preventing the United States government from 
overreacting when the circumstantial public evidence was highly suggestive of a 
link between Lee Harvey Oswald and a foreign power. 
The last area in which the review board has made a -- perhaps its greatest 
contribution has to do with whole issue of secrecy and disclosure. The balance 
between secrecy and disclosure has always been in favor of secrecy, especially 
since World War II, controlled by laws highly deferential to the equities of the 
interested government agencies: The five citizens who serve on the review board 
decided that if their mandate was to have any meaning it was imperative to 
pierce this veil. They had to get at categories that had been classified here 
