I 
[ 
[ 
[ 
PART II' 
·SECTION' 6. PU:BLICA.TIONS, PRESS~ AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
aoti-vi ties or olose a-ssooiation with other persons w-111 be ip:v-olv.ad in 
unfavorable publioity or become the subject of adverse investigative 
aoti tlty, or who will capitalize on th-eir friendly association with 
the SAC. 
4. .Except vrhere a suitable file is alreaqy in existenoe 3 a dead fil·e :tn 
· classirioation 80 is to be opened on each oontaot. 
5. A th~ee- by five-inch oard on eaoh oontaot is to be retained ih an SAG 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the SAC. Eaoh card is to 
contain: 
.6. 
[7. 
8. 
9. 
lO. 
ll. 
12. 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telephone numbe.rs 
c. Nature of sertlce which can be received 
d. Any comments which would be helpful in handling the individual 
e. Date of first contact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
( Show in the lower left corner on the front· of the --card.} • 
f.. Dates of oontac·l;s b·y the SAC ( to be e~tered on the reverse side of 
the card in longhand). Contacts mo:re fre.quent than quarterly should 
not be listed. 
g. Any necessary descriptive ~ata 
Each contact is to be indexed in the general ~ndices. The card is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparation, and the notation, 
tt See SAC. 1t 
SAC contacts located in headquarters city must b~ contacted at least three 
ti~es each year; those located in resident agencies must be contacte4 at 
least two times each year.] 
Advise Bureau immediatel v when a contact is di scont1:.nued UA.CB ., If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city located within another. 
field division, a copy of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
should be designated. for that field di-vision. Also ad.vise field division 
of background information re contact. 
Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of SAC contacts. 
Each office must submit a complete roster of SAC contacts to reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and November each year. If there are 
any changes in address~ employment, or other pertinent data, suoh informa­
tion should be set forth. If there is no change in status. so state. 
From time tp•time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more "FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems· confronting us. Any indication that such 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay .. 
Immediately upon assuming the duties of SAC, such S.AC should -visit all •• 
persons listed as SAC contacts and in addition leading officials looated 
in the ~ield division. 
\ NW 38321 Docld:32989529 371 
8 
9-30-60 
( 
( 
\ 
