31 
ment was to "stay in place and report to us" (Case Officer 1, p. 38). 
At a meeting in August 1962 in a foreign capital, AM/LASH-1 stated 
that he would remain in Cuba if he "could do something really signifi­
cant for the creation of a new Cuba", and expressed a desire to plan 
the execution of Fidel Castro (Case Officer 1 Contact Report, August 1 
meeting). The subject of assassinating Castro was again discussed 
at'a meeting on August 10, 1962, between AM/LASH-1 and his case 
officer. The case officer's contact report states that assassination 
was raised in discussing AM/LASH-l's role in Cuba, and that AM/LASH-1 
was visibly upset. "It was not the aet that he objected to, but 
merely the choice of the word used to describe it. 'Eliminate' was 
acceptable." (Case Officer· 1, Contact Report, August 7-10, meetings). 
The case officers who testified before the Com­
mittee said that AM/LASH-1 was not directly requested to assassinate 
Castro. The record clearly rev~als, however, that the agency per­
sonnel deali~ f'Wi th AM/LASH-1 were aware of his desire to take such 
action. A cable to headquarter·s reporting an August 19, 1963 meet­
ing with AM/LASH-1 stated: 
"Have no intention give AMLASH-1 physical elim­
ination mission as requirement but recognize 
this something he could or might try to carry 
out on his own initiative."* 
* Case Officer 1 testified that AM/LASH-1 discussed "eliminati:ng' Castro, 
although he attributed such remarks to AMLASH-l's "mercurial" nature, 
and stated that no specific plans for assassinations were ever discussed 
(Case Officer 1, pp. 39-41, 62). The case officer who took over the 
AMLASH project in September 1963 recalled being briefed by Case Officer 
1 on AMLASH's belief that Castro's assassination was a necessary first 
step in a coup. (Case Officer 2, p. 28). 
The second AMLASH case officer described therontext in which AMLASH~l 
generally raised the topic of assassination: 
"You also must recognize that AMLASH was a rather tempera­
mental man whose temperament was of a mercurial nature and 
whereas he may have said something like this in one fit of 
pique, he would settle down and talk about organizfng a regular 
military coup in the next breath." (Case Officer 2 1 p.29) 
NW .5095.5 Docld: 32423539 Page 56 
