(-. 
/ ' 
,I 
'-------. 
-Memo Jo Jo Casper to Mr. M hr 4/8/70 
Re: Attorney General's Staff ~onference - 4/8/70 - 5 PM 
George J. Reed, Chairman, Board of Parole, questioned Mr. Hoover 
as to the extent of Communist influence in all of this New Left, Black Panther, 
Students for a Democratic Society, and militant action that we are faced w-~th~ 
The Director explained that the Communist Party will join anything that will 
further its caµses and that they get their orders directly from Moscow. He 
said their influence in so1ne organizations is co:nplete control and in others 
it is only one of participation but, re pointed out, they are always the most 
vocal and, consequently, are very influential in tl).ose groups that they participate 
in. He said the Black Panthers follow the philosophies of many international 
revolutionary Communistso The Director th,3n cited the in.:ident of the young 
girl who blew up her father 1s home in New York which she _had turned into a 
bomb factory. He stated she started to get out of control when at Bryn Mawr 
she joined the Students for a Democratic Society, and now she has fled to 
Canada and we are unable to extradite her. 
At this point Deputy Attorney General Kleindienst thanked Mr o Hoover 
_for his outstanding presentation. He said he felt they all had a better knowledge 
of the FBI and a greater appreciation of the many problems from a security and 
crime standpoint faeing our country. With that, the official part of the conference 
was adjourned. Many of the conferees came up and personally congratulated Mr. 
Hoover and thanked him f o: his presentation, including asking Mr. Hoover to 
autograph the FBI exhibit folder which had been passed out to each participant. 
I feel this outstanding presentation on the part of the, Director brought 
great credit and praise for our organizationo Hopefully, it will act-as an incentive 
to some of _ our counterparts in th.3 Departm~nt to do a more aggressive job 
in fulfilling their du-~ies in meeting their security and criminal responsibilities. 
Submitted for information. 
.. 
d. ~~ ' ,'i/ 
i ; !.' 
.. \/ 
~Q) . M • 
- 6 -
.. 
