13-00000 
532 
Mr. MURPHY. Well, the pattern _before was one of pretty much permitting 
Nosenko to call . the shots. In other wonts, we wanted hi3 cooperation and we 
wanted to discuss these things In a reasonable manner, but his preference wu 
n.ot to sit still for a fullJ day's briefing, to want to go out ·socially all the time, 
which made It difficult the next day to continue to work. And the most Important 
aspect, I think, of the change was the dec1sion to confront him with Inconsisten­
cies as opposed to taking what he said and passing it on. 
!Mr. KLEIN. What about the day-to-day living conddtlons, were they changed? 
Mr. MUBPHY. Well, he was not permitted to leave. He was not permitted to 
depart. 
IMr. KLEIN. Other than that, his day-to-day treatment, not the actual Interroga­
tion sessions, but his food intake, his recreation, was tha,tchanged at ~t time? 
Mr. MURPilY. I don't think so, not-that early. I don•t·remember that.;·. ' • 
• • • • • • • • • 
Mr. KLEIN. Subsequent to April 4, Is It correct that Nosenko was interrogated 
by people from. the Soviet Russia Dlvlsioi;i? 
!Mr. MURPHY. That is right. . 
Mr. KLEIN. And how were the particular subareas on which he was interrogated· 
chosen? • 
!Mr. MURPHY. I am not sure. I don't know. Subject areas? This Is a guess, this 1s 
a recollection, but I think the decision was made based on what the CIA people 
thought oliered the best opportunity to get an admission and to break on that. 
In other words, I think it was based _on: points that they had collateral on. ~Y • 
that I mean other Information which said what this man Is saying is riot the truth · • • 
or this man does not know about this and, therefore, let us hit him hard on this; 
And so It was a fully tactical, these were tactical considerations relating to pos­
session_ of Information In the hands of the Interrogators which then offered the 
best opportunity to get through and get the truth. 
10ne breakthrough it was felt, as Is normally the case, gives you other break­
throughs. The decision on what subjects to be lnterrogatedl was essentially a fac­
tor of the tactics of the debriefing. 
Mr. KLEIN. Would it. be fair to say that after April 4 the subject areas were 
determined by a desire to try to catch him, to break him, as opposed to a desire 
to gain knowledge that would be of use to you In your role as an Intelligence 
agency? In other words, knowledge of the operation. 
Mr. MURPHY. That Is an accurate Impression. The answer Is yes because by 
the end of April there was a view that the man was not telling the troth, that 
parts of what he was saying were known to be untrue and that, therefore, made 
no sense, and although the reasons for bis behavior and his stat.em.en.ts were 
not clear, It made no sense then, it did not appear to make sense to accept as 
valid any data he might provide unless you could be sure that that data was In 
fact correct, and there were so many doubts about this, leaving aside the moti­
vation for it, the contradictions or the way In which he presented it, that the 
Information was not considered acceptable. 
• • • • • • • 
Mr. KLEIN. Were you aware of the substance of what Nosenko had to say about 
Oswald? 
Mr. MURPHY. From the very first. I mean, when he first said It back In February 
or March. ,· 
Mr. KLEIN. Do you recall now the substance of it? . 
Mr, MURPHY. No; not exactly, anything I said would be polluted by so much 
back and forth. I know that the thrust of the message was that. Oswald was 
never of Interest to the Soviet Intelligence Services, that he was never debriefed 
by them, and I can guarantee that because I was personally Involved In the 
affair. There Is more detail, but I can't really pin it down. 
Mr. KLEIN. Did you accept this statement by Nosenko? 
Mr. MURPHY. I did not. I did not believe that it would be possible for the 
Soviet Intelligence Services to have remained Indifferent to the arrival in 1959 
In Moscow of a former Marine radar operator who had served at what was an 
active U-2 operational base. I found that to be strange. It was only later, I think, 
that as the Nosenko case and Its other ramifications began to emerge that lt 
~ed to me that the Oswald story became even more unusual. 
I think I mentioned the other day it seems to me almost to have been tacked on 
or to have been added as though it didn't seem to be part of the real body of 
i 
I I 
