f 878 SECT!'"''\ 87. 
·e 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVER~T.Y.E 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVI .S 
! 
NW 38321 
(2) Informants anc.l sources should not be directed by FBI to join (~ 
or participate in activities of target organization. • However, 
if subversive group requests informant to do so, latter may 
comply. 
(3) Be certain all persons intervie\ved, including informants, are 
aware that FBI is not interested in normal activities of target 
organization but solely in efforts to influence or control the 
organization by subversive elements. 
d. Conversion to full scale investigation 
If target organization becomes completely dominated and controlled by 
subversive elemei:i,ts, advise FBII-IQ on UACB basis that full inv~stigation 
is being initiated as subversive organization. Drop infiltration 
designation from title of case. 
5. Subversive publications 
.Each office should review such publicatfons produced in its territory 
to determine whether any advocate subversion, violence, or violations 
within FBI jurisdiction. If so, submit available information by LHM to 
FBII-IQ with copy of pertinent material and make reconm1endations as to 
further action. Insure that FBIHQ is aware of all subversive publications 
with brief identifying data. 
6. Investigative steps 
Efforts should be made to develop reliable informants at all levels and 
in all segments of subversive organization . 
. Live informant coverage should be supplemented by other logical investigation 
including review of appropriate public records and publications, 
interviews with former· members of group and, on selective basis, through 
such techniques as physical and photographic surveillance. 
7. Administrative and reporting procedures 
a. Reporting requirements and status ,-
When necessary data has been developed concerning organization's (~ 
activities (See B. 2. above), submit report. After initial report, 
reports should be submitted semiannually (unless FBIHQ has instructed 
otherwise in individual cases). LI-IM may be used to provide fBIHQ or 
other interested agencies with significant data of immediate interest 
on an interim basis between reports. 
b. Informant coverage 
Cover pages of reports should include a brief summary of informant 
coverage available with respect to the organization; identifying 
informants who report on the group's activities by symbol number and 
showing specifically which informants are members of. the group. • 
c. Topical headings 
Both reports and LHMs should be organized under logical headings. 
d. Character 
All cases should use character "Internal Security," e.go, "Communist 
Party, USA; Internal Security." In case.of subsidiary or :front group, 
character should show name or abbreviation of the parent organization, 
e.g., 11Young Workers Liberation League, Internal Security ·- CPUSA'1 ; 
"Young Socialist Alliance, Internal Security - SWP.11 Caption of 
subversive infiltration cases should include name of subversive group 
and target organization, e.g., "Infiltration of (Name of target 
organization) by Socialist Wor1cers Party, Internal Security - SWP •" 
e. Classification - 100 
Page 1868 
8 
6-6-73 
( 
