I 
I' 
I ,-
[ 
b. 
SECTrr- "'t,. SECURITY IUVESTIGATIONS 
-• h. ,~o~ld be done prior to re( st1ug authority 
to institute the investigation -, ... hei:e i;ufficient 
1,dentifying information is not otherwise a-vailable. 
Contacts during investigation . 
I •. Once Bureau authority is grante~ to conduct the in­
vestigation, it is permissible to contact: 
(A) All established reliable sources, including those 
connected with the institution of.learning 
(B) All indi,iduals not connected with the institution 
of learning who, cons is tent vri th dis oreti on, would 
be contacted in a usual security pase; e.g., 
nelghbors, credit agencies, past employers, etc. 
(C} Registrars 
If the ~egistrar is reliable and can be depended 
upon not to di,ulge the Bureau's identity, Bureau 
authority is not needed in these cases to 9ontaot 
the registrar's office to obtain background data 
useful for identification purposes, to develop other 
proper investigative leads, or to verify 6onneotion 
with the institution of learning~ 
II. Superiors of faculty members 
No contact shou·ld be made with the superiors of a sub­
ject who is a member of the faculty since the superiors 
might take action against the· subject as a result of 
our contact. 
In. S.tudents, fa.cul ty· members, or other employees 
If, during the course of a_n investigation of a subject 
who is cor.r-.eoted with an ins t:i. tution of learning, it is 
desirtd to interview a student, faculty member, or other 
employee of an institution of learning who is not an 
established reliable source, prior Bureau authority must 
be obtained. When. req_uesting authority to im,er-vievr 
such an individual, that individual's name, position, a.nu 
a positi7e statement concerning his discretion and 
reliability should be furnished to the Bureau.· 
{o) Recei-ving -voluntary information 
These instructions must 11ot deter or prevent the immediate 
and proper interview of any person connected with an 
inst.i tution of learning who desi:<.'es of .his own volition to 
furnish information to the Bureau or who desires to be 
contacted by an Agent. 
(2) Subjects not connected with an institution of l~arning . 
When the ~ubject of a seourity-·i;ype investigc.:',;ion is not connec·l;<::d 
with a.n institution of learning and you desire to inter-view, in 
connection with ihe ca.Sey a student, faculty member, or other 
employee of an in:_;titution of learning, prior Bureau authority 
must be obtained for such an interview unless the student, faculty 
me:nber, or other employee is an established, reliable contaot of 
the office. In re~uesting authority, the name, position, and 
a positive statement concerning th~t person's discretion and re­
liability should be furnished to the Bureau. 
(3) Contacts of foreig~ es-f;<>,bl:l.shr:>•>1Ji;s 
I~ oonnection with investigations of oontacts of Soviet, satellite, 
and Yugosla-v officials and official ~stablishments, Bureau author­
ity must be obtained before conducting any inquiries or surveil­
lances at any school, college, or tmiversity, SubmiJ,; complete 
ft>.ots and your reco.n:nenda.tion when requesting such au:~hority. 
u. s. Governmcr~ employees, individuals havini foreign diplomatic 
or ~ftolal st .us, employees of foreign official e3tablish~ents, 
employees of the United lfations or interna·l;io:ha.1 organizat•ions~ an<l 
members of the armed forces 
Should information be received or i,n-vestigation de,elop ·chc i'act . 
that an individual being investigated under a seourity caption is 
or becomes 
25 
2-12-60 
