) 
[ 
) 
.. , 
' INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVERSi. 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDU 
87C 
(2) If necessary, set out lead for WFO to check records of Passport 
Office, Department of State. 
(3) Pertinent information is furnished Department of State, Central 
Intelligence Agency (CIA), and interested Legal Attaches. 
Furnish FBIHQ with six copies of LHM (2-Department, 1-Secret 
• Service, 1-State, 1-CIA) plus an additional four copies for each 
Legal Attache Office which covers area in subject's itinerary 
(1-Legat, 3-Legat's sources). Also, furnish one copy of subject's 
photograph, if available, for each-Legat Office 1nvolved. If 
stop should be placed with security services abroad, so indicate 
in cover letter. Set out requests for investigation abroad on 
separate numbered page captioned "Leads" at end of LHM. Request 
should not refer to Legal Attache or request investigation by 
any particular serviceQ 
(4) Advise FBIHQ promptly by LI-IM of subject's retur!'!-• Reference 
any prior memoranda dealing with the subject's travel. If 
subject has traveled to a communist country, furnish recommenda­
tion as to interview and advise whether additional investigation 
being conduct~d. 
(5) Take following action when information is received that 
organization or individual engaged in subversive activities is 
forming tour group for foreign travel: 
(a) Advise appropriate offices, under caption of tour group or 
organization, as to identities'of individuals participating 
in tour and furnish LHM to FBIHQ for dissemination to State 
Department, CIA, and interested Legal Attaches. Include 
readily available information pertaining to tour, such as 
itinerary, dates. names, and addresses of participants, and 
[characterization]of organization or individual sponsoring tour. 
(b) Other offices should immediately identify participants 
residing within their respective territories and submit 
LI-IMs on those of security interestQ Refer to LI-IM previously 
prepared under caption of tour group or organization. In 
cover letter, list participants on whom there is no subversive 
information. 
1. Submission of information on members of subversive groups. 
(1) Offices covering national headquarters or local units of subversive 
groups should promptly furnish FBIHQ names and identifying data 
regarding persons affiliated with such groups. Furnish 
information by letter, and indicate list is being furnished 
for indexing purposes. 
(2) Information regarding subversive affiliation of individuals 
residing in territory of other offices should be furnished to 
latterQ 
(3) Subscription lists of publications of subversive organizations 
should be indexed in field office covering address shown for 
.subscriber but should not be forwarded to FBIHQ. 
m. Control files on former members of subversive organizationsQ 
(1) Offices having sufficient volume may, at the option of the 
appropriate supervisor, maintain control files on former 
members of subversive organizations. Such files will preclude 
necessity for extensive file reviews to identify persons who 
are in position to furnish information of value in particular 
cases. 
(2) Where appropriate, make copies of communications· for these files. 
Insofar as practical these files should contain following information 
regarding ex-members of subversive groups: background, type of 
information possessed, time period covered, availability for 
interview and for testimony. 
15 
9-13-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1823 \ 
' 
! 
i i . 
I I 
I 
I 
• 1 
i 
i 
·" 
I 
