I 
) 
) 
) 
'\ 
S.EC'L.87. 
,+\ 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVElAE 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVI-LS 
87D 
If it is determined subject of FBI investigation is member of armed 
services, discontinue immediately, advise FBIHQ, and disseminate 
pertinent information locally to appropriate intelligence agency. 
If it is determined subject has close relatives in armed forces, 
promptly advise appropriate military intelligence service, and 
furnish pertinent information, including reports, on subject involved. 
Evaluation of such association lies entirely within province of 
military intelligence service. 
In .all instances, advise FBIHQ concerning any possible subversive 
contacts or derogatory information developed concerning military 
personnel, including local dissemination made. Enclose four copies 
of LHM or report setting out pertinent data. 
b. Aliens and naturalized citizens 
Furnish any information which might have bearing •on their deportation 
or denaturalization to Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) 
local.lyo 
c. Individuals employed in or having access to Key Facilities, or 
employees of private contractors of the Armed Forces 
Under Delimitations Agreements, FBI is responsible to disseminate 
p~~tjnent data to the counterintelligence agencies of the Armed 
Forceso [Also disseminate pertinent information concerning such 
individuals to the Chief, Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office 
(DISCO), Defense Supply Agency, Columbus, Ohio 43215, Attention Chief, 
Adjudication Division and. advise interested military intelligence 
agency of such dissemination to DISCO. However, with regard to 
facilities having classified contracts with the Atomic Energy 
Commission (AEC), dissemination to AEC is made only at FBIHQ.] 
See section 102, volume IV, of this manual for details. 
d. Empioyees of public utilities (including state and municipal facilities) 
Di~seminate pertinent data locally to Army and any other Federal agency 
whose interest is apparent. 
e. Members of military reserve branches or National Guard 
Disseminate pertinent security data locally to appropriate military 
intelligence service. 
f. Seamen and subjects employed in maritime industry, including long­
shoremen and waterfront employees 
Disseminate pertinent security data locally to Coast Guard and when 
circumstances dictate, to other interested intelligence agencies, 
including NISO. 
g. Employees of Federal Government 
Any subversive information received concerning an employee of an 
agency of the Executive Branch should be promptly forwarded to FBIHQ 
for dissemination to interested agencies. No dissemination of reports 
in Security of Government Employee cases should be made in field. 
Instructions regarding all phases of FBI responsibilities under EO 
10450 are in section 19, volume II, of this manual. 
h. Individuals who own property or reside in immediate vicinity of 
installation or other premises under jurisdiction of branch of armed 
services 
_Disseminate pertinent data locally to appropriate military intelligence 
service. 
Ainnen licensed by Federal Av1ation Administration (FM) 
FM issues certificates to airmen (pilot, mechanic, or member of crew); 
to individuals directly in charge of inspection, maintenance, over­
hauling, or repair of airc-raft; and to aircraft dispatchers or air­
traffic control tower operation. 
Furnish pertinent data concerning such persons to FBIHQ by report or 
LI~1 •. In cover communication, recommend dissemination to FAA. 
17 
9-13-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1858 Al 
