iNVENTLJRi!::D, , 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILES ~ □ N ~]1 
Treve rton iJ (!ft,£, August a·z<,,-FJ-7-J~L,-- ---From: Gregory 
Subject: Kennedy Library Tape Recording of March 13, 1963 
National Security Council Meeting 
On this date, I listened to a portion of the tape 
of the March 13, 1963 meeting of the National Security 
Council (President present). I listened to it several 
times in order to check it against the Library trans­
cript of that meeting. 
The rel-evant portion of the statement by John McCone 
reads as follows: 
"With respect to Cuba, the thinkin 9 in the Agency is ... 
we have to first get rid of the Soviets ... troops, and 
as stated ((several words garbled)) and use every resource we 
have available--political, diplomatic, otherwise--to accom­
plish that. Once that is done, then we believe that the 
monolithic structure of the Castro regime can be broken up. 
Maybe we'll have to catalyze it a little bit. But we think 
that there are enough indicators of distress within the 
military and within his political organization so that 
once the Soviets are out some ... military coup can be .. 
will be brought about which will remove the Castro 
government, and with a strong possibility of replacing 
that government with a government more favorable to our 
interests in the Western Hemisphere. Now, this is ... 
there's a lot of ifs connected with that, but it seems 
to use, after having thought about this a good deal, that 
some such action as that is a more probably course of 
action that would be successful than to try to out .. to 
envisage an uprising on the part of the population in the 
absence of the military ... With the military and security 
forces on behalf of Castro, they can very easily frustrate 
and defeat any civilian uprising. I think, as time goes 
on, that our principal problem is going to be dealing 
with the future of Cuba and the future of Latin America. 
I think the problems of the Bay of Pigs and the October 
incident and the missiles will disappear, and more and 
more attention is going to be brought on the part of the 
people on the Hill ... is going to be ... is how we're going 
to dispose of this problem." 
Then the President speaks. 
NW 50955· ::l)'octd::32423566. Page 52 
,, 
