NW 
107T-U 
4. 
SECTIOM 107 .ECiJRITY INFORMANTS AND CONFID .AL SOURCES. 
b. Pamphlets, brochures, etc., prepared by private company for distribu­
tion or sale to public. (This does not include highly technical 
pamphlets, even if unclassified., which a.re prepared for limited use 
and not intended for release to public.) 
Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be retained by office of origin of any documents or 
material related to national defense which is passed. 
b. Such material should be apuropria.tely identified by double agent. 
·Bureau Agonts should not place identifying data on su?h nraterial b~t 
should preserve any notes ma.de by them in connection with its passage. 
c. Similar action sho,:.ld be taken regarding material which is passed which 
, " ... 
is considered evidentiary although not-clearly related to national defense. -
5. 
d. It is not necessary to retain copies of buildup material obviously not 
ev-identiary in nature where copies can be obtained at later date from 
Government agency or private concern having custody. 
Handling money ~nd property received by double a.gents 
a. Double agents must turn over to Bureau any money or property received 
from their principals in connect ion with double agent intelli" gence 
operation. This should be ma.de clear to double agent at inception 
of operation (consider obtaining signed statement to· this effect). · 
Exceptions must be specifically approved by Bureau. Entirely seps.rate­
arrangements must be made for payments to double agents for services 
rendered to Bureau. . 
b. Any money or property received by double agent from his principal 
represents possible evidence and double agent should execute state­
ment describing money received by type of currency, denomination., 
series of issue, and serial number and'appropriately describing any 
other property received. Statement should be signed by double agent's 
code name. 
c. Money or property received from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
agents d. Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from double 
should make independent records for retention for purposes 
recollection in event testimony is later necessary. 
of ref.reshing ( 
. . 
U. UTILIZATION OF INFORMANTS AND SOURCES AT IMSTITUTIONS OF LEARNING 
1. Use of students 
a. Students under age of 18 years are not to be developed as security 
informants, potential security informants, or other types of security 
sources in other than highly unusual circumstances. Under such 
circumstances, furnish complete justification to Bureau. 
b. Upon initial contact with prospective student informant· or source, 
individual should be tactfully requested to execute a brief signed writ-
• ten statement for field file setting forth that this• individual has 
voluntarily come forward to furnish information to FBI because of 
his concern over individuals or groups that may be inimical to 
interests of U.S. Government and that he understands FBI has no 
interest in legitimate institution or campus activities. 
( 2. (Deleted J 
Docld:32989529 Page 1227 
24 
3-13-72 
( 
