[107P - Q. SECTION 107.SECURITY INFOR11ANTS[.l1..ND CONFID.IA.L SOURCES] 
P. SIGNI1fG OF LOYALTY O.A:THS, .AFI'ID1..VI'.rS, AND STATEMENTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting .Agent fully 
advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a 
for.m. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such· situations which cannot be avoided. 
4; The Bu~eau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant I s activity;. however, such situations 
must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
5._ Each such situation must be car,-Jfujly considered and Bureau is to b.e 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed act~on. 
6. In no instance should y6u permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative~ 
G.. DISCOH'.rINUED INFORMANTS 
1. When the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card 
"cancelled, 11 Destroy the symbol card. l~ever destroy the name card. 
2, Refile the name card in numerical order by symb"ol· number 'in the symbol 
number index. '.l'he symbol number shall not be subsequently reassigned 
to another informant. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued 
pote-nt_ial security in-formant or conf idenj;ial source to whom a symbol 
number was once assigned later is reactivated, remove his name card from 
the symbol number index, mark it reactivated with appropriate date, note' 
thereon type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3, When a potential security informant or confidentiil source is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4; kdvise the Bureau when a potential informant or informant is discontinued 
and the reason therefor. 
5. Advise the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to testify 
in open court or before administrative hearing boards, The identity of 
all _cases of security of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
[ compliance with section[69F, volume III, of this manual,] 
6; Review the jnformant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the Bureau ~nd the field relating to the Depart­
ment's interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available as a witness are contained therein. In those cases in which it 
is e·<rident the Department has indicated a desire to consider the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau in each such 
substantive case, except in those cases in which it 1.s ob-viou.s the statute 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the Bureau, 
7 • .A statement shall also be made to the effect that the measures to con­
trol informants, set out in 8 below, h::,,ve been considered and recommenda­
tions shall be made when it appears that such are warranted. 
80 When the ser-v:i ues of an informant are discontinued, r,1aintain close con­
tr~ct with him so that the info:cman-1; will look to the Bureau for advice 
anci counsel prior to taking any action which woul<l be against the Bureau I s 
best interests. When an informant is discont:i.nued, determine whether 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newsp~per article, or other­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the 
desirabil~ty of coming to the Bureau for asslsta~co and guidance rather 
than making other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1511 
?.4 
2-12-~GO 
) 
