13-00000 
i 
DDO lNSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
r 
SECRET 
5; ,OPERATIONAL USE PROHIBITED 
• _ a. Members and Trainees of ACTION 
...,.. 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
(1) It is Agency policy that members and trainees of ACTION will not be 
used in any capacity, with or without remuneration, by the Agency 
or by organizations under its jurisdiction. ( The term "members of AC 
TION"' will be understood to mean anyone employed by or associated 
. with ACTION except trainees.) 
(.2) It is Agency policy that former members of ACTION may be em­
ployed or used by_ the Agency or by organizations under its jurisdiction 
only in accordance with the following: 
(a) Except as stated in (b) below, a former member of ACTION 
may be employed or used operationally by any element of the 
Agency only if a period of five full years has elapsed since his 
separation from ACTION. _ _ 
(b) An Agency-controlled organization may hire a former member of 
ACTION, but only for duties related to the overt purposes of such 
organization, if a period of at least twenty-four months has elapsed 
since his separation from ACTION. 
( c) The employment or. use of a former member of ACTION under 
the provisions of subparagraph (a) or ( b) _ above must have the 
specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations. • 
. ( 3) Former trainees whose ACTION service included duty or training over­
seas are subject to ·the rules governing employment or use • of former 
members of ACTION ( subparagraph ( 2) above). Former trainees who 
did not serve at any time as members of ACTION and whose ACTION 
service did not include duty or training overseas may be employed or 
used operationally by DDO elements provided the specific prior ap­
proval of the Deputy Director for Operations is obtained. 
( 4). A former member or trainee of ACTION whose employment or use 
• is permitted by subparagraph ( 2) or ( 3) above may not be assigned 
to or used in a country for which he had been trained or to which 
he had been assigned while with ACTION. • 
(5) Information may be received by the Domestic Collection Division 
from private corporations and other organizations employing former 
-ACTION personnel, notwithstanding the fact that the information may 
originate with former ACTION personnel. However, any direct brief­
ing ·or debriefing of or contact with former members or trainees of 
ACTION is subject to the following: 
(a) The specific prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations _ 
must be obtained. • 
4 
SECRET 
I_--···"""'"" .... ,... ... _.-----------.------
'I 
") ::.l 
i 
,I 
' . 
• 
1 
·l 
. _) l ·! 
! ·i 
i 
) 
,! 
; 
! 
) 
'! 
I 
I 
i 
i 
