13-00000 
MEMORANDUM 
CIA HAS f-!C) 08JECTION TO 
Di::CLAS·C'fi"••r, 1·•·.-•ir--~, 
... ,J,!"L•i'.l !Uh; AND/OR 
RELEASE OF CIA. INFORMATION 
IN THIS DOCUMENT . . 
September 25, 1998 
To: 
cc: 
From: 
Subject: 
Laura Denk 
Executive Director 
Bob Skwirot 
CIA Team Leader 
Michelle Combs 
Associate Director for Research and Review 
No Evidence of Contact Between Lee Harvey Oswald and the CIA's Office of 
Operations • 
One of the enigmas that has surrounded Lee Harvey Oswald's defection and re-defection is the 
question of whether the CIA's Office ofOperationS (later the Domestic Contacts Division) 
interviewed or took note .of Oswald either before his trip or upon his return from the Soviet 
Union. The available evidence is somewhat contradictory. The CIA has long claimed that 
Oswald was never a source, asset, or employee of the CIA. Yet, a November 25, 1963 
memorandum discusses the recollections of a CIA staff officer that the Agency considered 
interviewing Oswald. Further, another former CIA officer, Donald E. Deneselya, has stated that 
he recalls reading an OQ. debriefing report in the summer of 1962 from a former Marine re­
defector who had worked at the Minsk Radio Factory. The Review Board could not corroborate 
the recollections of the two former CIA officers with additional records or information. 
In an effort to clarify the mystery, the Review Board searched for records that might ~nfirm or 
deny any contact between Oswald and the CIA before or after his time in the Soviet Union. In 
the early 1960's, the Office of Operations (00) was a part of the Directorate oflntellige_nce. 
This office, which interviews American citizens who might have come into contact with 
information or individuals of intelligence interest overseas, later became the Domestic Contacts 
Division (DCD) of the Directorate of Operations. · This office normally only contacts individuals • 
after receiving questions or requirements from intelligence community customers looking for 
particular types of information. 
The Review Board staff examined 00 records and operational histories to gain ~n understanding 
of 00 practices in the late l 950's and early l960's. The Review Board staff could find no 
evidence of contact between Oswald and 00 either before or after his time in the Soviet Union. 
Had Oswald departed for his trip to. the Soviet Union through New York City, as did most 
travelers, he possibly might have come to the attention of 00. The Review Board.staff did not 
locate any reference or record to Oswald's departure from New Orleans via freighter that 
predates the assassination. The Review Board staff also could not locate any information to 
