1 
CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FRF.EDOI1S 
The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, 
revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released 
by the Committee on Un-American Activities~ United States 
House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 43 
concerning 11Citiz8ns Committee to Preserve American Freedoms": 
1. 11The (Comnunist) party's front operations in the 
Southern California District today are*** confined to four 
major organizations, "which include the Citizens Committee to 
Preserve American Freedoms. 
"The Citizens Comrni ttee to Preserve American Freedoms 
f: i', :', specializes in propaganda aimed at abc lishing the Cammi ttee 
on Un-American Activities and discrediting the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation. Created in Los Angeles in 1952, the front 
organization is run by Frank Wilkinson, an identified Communist 
who recently resumed the full-time paid post of executive 
secretary after approximately a year's leave of absence to assist 
in similar campaign by another front in New York City, the 
Erneriency Civil Liberties Committee. 
"When the Committee on Un-Ai:1erican Activities held 
hearings in Los Angeles September 2-5, 1958, to inquire into the 
nature of the party's recent reorganization in California, 
the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms sponsored 
a series of public meetings to protest the hearings and the very 
existence of the committee. Communists subpoenaed as witnesses 
were guests of honor. 
"At this time, leaders of the party's Southern California 
District were mobilizing Communists in the area for participation 
in an intensified campaign to abolish this committee of Congress. 
How the Citizens Cammi ttee to Preserve American Freedoms served th,2 
Party in this effort was revealed by (Communist Party) District 
Chairman Dorothy Healey in a report to the Party's Southern 
California. District Council on September 21, 19 5 8. Mrs. HEALEY de­
clared ~hat the party preferred public protest meeting, to be held by 
the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms rather than 
under ?arty auspices because Ccmmunists could attend without danger 
of being exposed as members of the party. She also noted that 
Communists scheduled as congressional committee witnesses could not_ 
~ppear beforehand at O?enly Communist rallies without creating the b• 
~~pression that the party was conspiring with witnesses to withhold 
i.:::1.formation from the coJ11.m£ttee." 7 ,, _ 
(SommittJEP~n Un-American Activities, 
APPENDIX 
NW 38613 Docld:34528578 90 
House Report 259 on the Southern California 
District of the Communist Party, April 3, 
1959, pp 7 and 8.) 
