J -·f I 
l 
A P P E N D I X 
FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COM~IITTEE 
' . 
The :\pr il 6, 1960, edition of "The New York 'l'imes" • 
newspaper contained a full-page adver·tisement captioned 
"What Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by the Fair· Play 
for Cuba Committee (FPCC). This advertisement announced the 
formation of the FPCC in New York City and declared the FPCC 
intended to promulgate "the truth about revolutionary Cuba" to 
neutralize the distorted American press~ 
"The New York Times" edftion of January 11, 1961, 
reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States 
Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10, 1961, 
Dr. Char·les A. Santos-Buch identified himself and Robert Taber 
as organizers of the FPCC. He also testified he and Taber 
obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were applied 
toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement; 
' On May 16, 1963, a source advised that during the 
fir.st two years of the FPCC's existence there was a struggle 
between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party(SWP) 
elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby 
influence FPCC policy. This source added that during the past 
year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership to 
minimize the role of these and other organizntions in the FPCC 
so that their influence as of May, 1963, was negligible. 
The SWP has been designated_ pm·mw.nt to Executive 
Order 10450. 
On May 20, 1963, a second source ~~vis8d that Vincent 
"Ted" J,;~e, F'l1CC Nat ion al Off ice Director, r::-.::, "i:.'--:-;n fon"i";.ula ting 
FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no intention of 
permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any other organization. 
Th ;_s so11rce stated that Lee believed that the ?'?CC should , ... 
advocate .resumption of diplomatic .r~lations 1..1,2t1.1:een. Cuba and :.-
the United States and should support the right of 
Cubans to manage their revolution without inte~ference from 
oth0r nations. Lee did not advocate supporti~; the Cuban 
revolution per se. 
The Nove211iJer 23, 1963, edition· of "'.P\e New York Times" 
reported thnt Senetcr Thomas J. Dodd of Connecticut had called 
FPCC "the chief p1.i'i)lic 1·elations instrument of the Castro network 
in the United States.n It is to be noted that Senator Dodd was 
a member of the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee which 
twice conducted hearings on the FPCC. 
·NW 88321 Dodd:32989544 Page 400 6 
