-51-
, ': • • •• j 
' ' ,_·:,'. \ ~:,\· .. \_-/ .. -
,\~ ·,,j October .,10'-0c tober '· 22 (approxi.ma te) 
Karamessines and one or two others went_ with Kissinger to speak with 
the President, after a larger meeting~ Karamessines believed this meeting 
took place between October 10 and 24. (Karamessines testimony, p. 89) 
According to Karamessines, the 
11
President went out. of his way to impress 
all of those there with his conviction that it was absolutely essential 
* that the election of Mr. Allende to the presidency be thwarted." As 
they were leaving the Oval Office, the President took Karamessines aside 
to reiterate the message. (Karamessines testimony, p. 8) 
October 19 
Station cabled Headquarters early in tt.e morning, advising that 
the tear gas had been passed and outlining the Valenzuela coup plan, 
beginning with the kidnap of Schneider. In testimony before the Com­
mit.tee, Karamessines indicated he certainly would have reported the 
Valenzuela pl?n to Kissinger "very promptly, if for no other reason 
than that we didn't have all that much promising news to report to 
the White House .... " (Karamessines testimony, p. 72) 
And as I say, if for no other reason we would have . 
wanted to get this kind of hopeful report to the 
White House as soon as possible, and it would be my 
best estimate now that that is.precisely what we 
did. (p. 72) 
In the afternoon of the 19th, Karamessines met with General Haig 
for an hour at the White House. (Karamessines calendar) By then, 
Karamessines would have had in hand the cable outlining the Valenzue.la 
* If the meeting with the President occurred after October 15, that 
would lend credence to the testimony of CIA officials that they were 
not directed to end their coup efforts in the October 15th meeting. 
Unfortunately the Committee has not had access to the daily calendars 
' -of President Nixon or Secretary Kissinger, which might ·i,inpoirit the 
date of the President's conversation with Karamessines. • Those calen­
dars, along with other White House documents bearing on Track II, have 
been subpoena.ed. ,..."F-; • ./•"-~ ·:.-:::.-;-, ' . ,,-.... 
:._..,; 
:i'. •.' 
...... 
r 
