( 
[ 
... 
. ' -_ .... 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
,• ... 
~ ;ION 87. SECURITY INVESTIG.A.TIC. ' 
,. ✓• 
VIII. Letters requesting Bureau authority for the interview 
must contain the folloviing information, if availab'le: 
(A) Residence address, occupation, employment and race 
of subject, date and place of birth, oitizc:nship, 
and statµs of health 
{B} Marital status. If married, the occupation, 
employment, and race of the ::ipouse. 
(c·) Length of time subject a member of or affiliated 
with subversive organizations and positiono he held 
in· such organiza.tiona. In oases in vrhich inventiga­
tion is based on r.ome allegation or circumstances 
of a security nature other than membership in or 
affiliation with subversive organizations, facts 
upon which inYestigation is predic~ted .ahould be 
briefly set forth. 
(D) If married, info:c~mation indicating the spouse is 
~r has been a member of or affiliated with subver­
·s:i:ve groups, the position ·held in such group·s, and 
the length of time of such membership or affiliation 
(E) Membership or affiliation of any other close rela­
tives in subversive groups 
, (F) Information reg~r.ding defection, expulsion, inac­
tivity, and pre:: ~nt sympathies of. the subject and, 
if married, of the spouse 
{G) _What is expected to be gained by the interview 
IX. In each letter, pertinent information, if avail-
• able, ·regarding the se-ven items li s_j;ed abo-.e must be 
set out under the appropriate number but the above 
headings need not be restated. If no pertinent data is 
a.Yailable regarding any of the i terns, you should make 
the appropriate coni..rnents af·l;er the respective number. 
X. All letters requesting Buro au authority to in·berview 
the subjeot of a security investigation must be .por­
sonally approved by the SAC. 
XI. One of the required copies of the letter to the Bureau 
should consist only of the first page of the letter. 
When unnecessary for Bureau to issue specific instruc­
tion:3 or com.'ilents in conneotion with autho:c•izing an 
interview, the Bureau will approve .the request by 
placing an appropriate rubber-stn.mp impressioit on,'the 
single-page copy of the incoming letter and return 
it by routing slip. 
XII. Upon receipt of Bureau authority, the interview must be 
conducted within[45]days. If this is impossible, advise 
Bureau of the reasons why the intervie•,"< was not effected 
and .,s-'i:ate that the subject will be contacted within the 
next[45]days. At the end o:l the seoond[45-d::i.y]perio·d 
if the inter·vlow- has not been conduote:d, requo3t addi­
tional authority. Include in the letters any new.infor­
mation bearing upon the advisa.bili·l;y of conducting the 
interview. • 
{ f) Preparations 'for and conduct of interviews 
I. Interviews must be conducted by two Special Agents. An 
Agent experienced in security investigations who ht'.s 
knowledge of Bureau regulations regarding dcvdlopment 
of informants must conduct the act,rnl interrog::d;ion. 
Approach need not be made by both Agents at the same 
time and one Agent may observe from a secure disJ.;ance. 
Baokground of subject and inditldual oiroumstances 
,will determine exactly how approach should be bandled 
-·~n eao~ case. Two Agents should be physicnlly present 
during any inter"Tiew or oontaot vd th known 01• su::ipcotcd 
Nation of Islam members in all types of Bureau cases. 
II 0 Prepurations ·for interview must bo thorough ·an<l con­
ducted so that interviewing Agents will not be compro­
mised, the :,,ureau will not be '°imbarrassed, and oon­
fi,qciitial inform::p1ts ltill riot be expo sod. 
847 
40 
4-18-61 
:t 't-. , .. 
:!, 
