r 
Review Of Manuel Ra.y 
Volume ii of xviii 
Page 3 
SECRE1 Betsy Palmer 
14. 11/14/60 Cable to Director from MASH. 
Ray to surface at press conference scheduled. for u/16/60 in Miami. 
6) • ~ 15. 11/17 /60 Cable to Director :f'rom MASH 
f • On 11/15/60,[Farletj alir~, Bender met with Ray in complete privacy. . 
11Unquestionably, the youthful, softspoken, unassuming, almost huml:ie Ray' 
is a natural leader of highest intellect, deepest sincerity and convistion." 
Ray's political posture doubtful as fa.r as U.S. government acceptance is 
concerned.. 
Explained to Ray the u.s. government's desire to have all CUban exiles 
I.Ulified. in their efforts. Ray says MRP does not wish to reinstate 19£;0 
constitution. Provisional government of 30 honorable CUbans would be 
established. and elections held 18 months thereafter. Castro laws passed 
at begjnning of his regime to be promulgated.. State would regulate 
private investment and utilities would be nationalized. 
Ray wants to keep MRP "lean and hungry" -- each member to have specific 
responsibilities and feel important to revolution. 
Ray asked for permission to start a fund drive in CUba and u.s .. Use 
asked for .$10, 000 by next Wednesday -- Bender made cozmni tment. 
~3 [Parl_ett]believes net result of meeting was establishment of private MRP-
u.s. link and door remains open for some kind of relationship with FRD. ..-
Ray agrees to discuss this with Miro Cardona. Of all the groups being 
supported, FRD, MRP and MRR a.re most significant. All CUban groups seem 
to be looking to Bender group to show a preference before joining one of 
the above three. How long current flexibility can be maintained is 
problematical. 
11/21/60 
SUbject: 
Memo for Record. 
Meeting with King and Esterline on subject of handling 
MRP, 11/18 / 60 • 
Consensus was that Ray did not politically represent a.ey:thing to cheer 
a.bout. writer felt MRP opposed to joining FRD and recognized need to 
control MRP and wean it away to the extent possible from its leaders. 
Could be done by controlling financial and military support. It was 
agt"eed. in meeting with Mr~ Barnes that financial and military support 
for MRP be channelled. through FRD. 
17. ll/23/60 Contact Report: Meeting with Ray and Chibas in NYC, ll/22/60 
Ra.y says MRP has contacts at Isle of Pines with two garrisons and can 
expect a.bout 750 men to desert Castro at proper time. CAPTA.Ill CAPCfrA is 
contact with Ray's group. 
Rey's people also in contact with commander of prison where Huber Matos 
is incarcerated.. Matos believes PADILLA, the prison commander, would assist 
