. ' -·~--..--... :~ .,; :.;, ~--. ;,, 
: ! 
L J :....:.J 
, \\ /'4. Supply Drops ~ Cuba 
G~n. Cabell e~--plained that the Pinar de Rio supply mission had 
not taken place because of the absence of specified communication 
from the DZ, and the Escarhbray operation had been canceled because 
.of weather. He said that these missions are still planned, and assumed 
_ that the Group had no objections. The members so signified. 
/s .. U-2, Cuba 
Gen. Cabell said that the photographic coverage on t.li.e first 
flight had been only about 50%, because of cloud cover. He continued 
that we are analyzing the exact results on a priority basis and that 
some time after the middle of next week we should be in a position to 
make rcconunendations for the missions required to extend the coverage. 
Mr. Gray commented somewhat wryly that this was all right with 
him since he "would certainly not be available to discuss anything of 
this kind before the middle of next week. 11 The other m.embers appeared 
to have the same reaction. 
Policy Consideration Re Cuban Exiles 
Mr. Gray said that Assistant Attorr:.ey General Yeagley had spoken 
to him after his meeting with Col. King and Messrs. Esterline and 
Holman. He had said that the information given to hirn by the CIA 
representatives, and the arrangements for future coordination if 
necessary, were entirely satisfactory to him. He had stated, ho\vever, 
that a problem remains with respect to action the FBI should take; 
that is, the FBI needs guidance in its handling of Cuban exile groups 
other than those nnder the direction of CIA .. 
The Group agreed that the best way to attack this problem would 
be to have Mr. Yeagley attend next week's Special Group meeting and 
discuss the matter at first hand. Mr. Parrott was asked to make 
arrangements io:r-:1.his. 
j 
. 7. Value of Cuba to the USSR as a Base Vis-a-vis 
Cape Canaveral 
Mr. Parrott gave Mr. Merchant the gist of the OSI memoran<lwn 
4 
NW 50955 Docid.:32423488 Page 22 -
1,-, I' ~~ 'II,, 
) , ;· l ( 
L . • , . l 
L 
i.. 
-
