SECRET Betsy palmer 
~~w ~f_MB:n~el Ray ;r~ro Files, Volumes I - VIII 
April 24, 1978 
Volume vn JUly 1962 - A1l_§USt 126~ 
1. Cable dated July 2, 1962 to Director from San Juan 
Olear that Manolo Ray wooked. upon '171th great favor by Puerto Rican 
government. No evidence, however, that Puerto Rican government is 
supporting the MRP. Believe record will show that while our past 
contact with Ray has not always been happy one, it always revealing 
of Ray's intentions. . i 
2. Memo for Chief, Task Force W from Alf'onso Rodriguez 
SUbject: Manolo Ray Rivero 
12 July 1962 
"Ray has indicated to WAVE sources that whereas he is not persona grata 
with the Agency, he has important poll tical connections in Washington and 
is thus kept informed of much of the Agency's activities. Ray's new 
organization is not to be military or engage in military thrusts against 
Cuba because military activity is presently controlled by the Agency and 
cannot be wrested from it at this time. Ray's new organization will 
cooperate '171th the Consejo and attempt to move in on it with the ultimate 
aim of taking over and dominating it." 
3. Memorandum for Chief, Task Force W from Alfonson Rodriguez 25 July 1962 
Subject: Manolo Ray Meeting in New York 
Ray sorry he joined FRD prior to April invation. Let tide of time suck 
him in and take him along. Obvious to him that show run in good faith but 
bad judgment. Ray discusses hope that JURE will be long-lasting organization 
in CUba. Ray's political views ase assessed as democratically oriented, and 
if he became ruler of CUba, his greatest preoccupation would be with economic 
progress. Rodriguez says Ray is not to be under- estimated. Commands 
respect because he is well educated. and has something to contribute. 
4. Ray begins to give information about possible defectors from Castro. 
Cable dated 25 July 1962 reports that Ray told Willard R. Nauman that 
.Armando Hart Davalos is a feasible target. 
-"='2 former mgr. , Kings Ranch, 
1- Additional infor!llation to a July 1962 .nemorandum from Jack Malone' (named 
on interoffice route slip). Information obtained from difference sources 
from persons close to Ray and their views are complete reliable. Ray did 
not leave Castro's cabinet because of ideological or policy discrepancies 
with Castro but because of a heated discussion with the Minister of Labor. 
Martinez Sanchez, who almost shot Ray after a Cabinet meeting. The sources 
of information agree that· Ray is not any different than Castro. Some of 
them believe he may not have completely severed his relations with Castro 
and think he may still be in contact with him. Diplomatic relations were 
\ suspended but recognition was not withdrawn. 
~~. Memo from Jack Malone, dated July 16, 1962 Cover letter addressed 
to c. Mechen·:.· Says Ray's ethics are poor and he is capable of sacrifycing 
his own kin and friends if such sacrifice turns out in favor of his personal 
plans. Claims Ray is irresponsible and ignorant of present international 
conditions and particularly of the Cuban social and economic reality. 
SECRET 
... 
Cub, 
