13-00000 
__ U I I,& UI -~~.~ 
Robert M. McNamara, Jr., Esq. 
July 15, 1998 
Page7 
DO Office Information [CIA-IR-18] 
Computer Name searches [CIA-IR-19] 
Zaprud~r Film [CIA-IR-25) 
AMWORLD [CIA-IR-32) , 
Search for document mentioned in RIF No. 104-10151-10206 [CIA-IR-35] 
William Pawley Files [CIA-IR-37) 
6. CIA Review and Declassification of Other Records 
Besides CIA records, CIA is continuing to review its equities in other records, including 
Church Committee records and records from the Presidential libraries. In addition, the 
Review Board's interviews with former CIA official Ann Goodpasture must be 
reviewed and declassified by CIA so that the interviews can be sent to Ms. Goodpasture 
for her corrections and then included with the Review Board's open records. 
Finally, the Library of Congress has a Bel of closed Rockefeller Commission records in 
its Manuscript Division that may require CIA review and declassification. It is our 
understanding that these records are closed until 2001 and can be inspected only by 
permission of the 0A Director. To assess what should be done regarding release of 
these records, the Review Board first seeks to inspect them. Accordingly, please 
authorize the Library's Manuscript Division to permit our inspection and let us know 
when this authorization has been granted. 
" B. CIA's Final Declaration of Compliance 
CIA' s Final Declaration of Compliance will constitute its public statement, under 
penalty of perjury, that (1) OA has located and disclosed all records relating to Lee 
Harvey Oswald and the assassination of President Kennedy that it could identify. . . ... 
through a diligent records search and (2) CIA is aware of no other assassination-related 
records being withheld from the public. We request that CTA submit its Final 
Declaration to the Review Board absolutely no later than September 1. 
To demonstrate that CIA has disclosed all relevant materials, we make the following 
recommendations for CIA's Final Declaration of_Compliance: 
