NW 
it. The reduction would be effected by not filling vacancies as they occur and 
by not establishing new positions. The letter further directs that agency plans 
for personnel reductions or facts as to why an agency head believes the requested 
2% reduction is impracticable be presented to the Budget Bureau with the 
October financial plan. 
•,< , In connection with the 2% savings program in effect during the fiscal 
year 1959, the Bureau advised the Attorney General that 'it would be impossible 
to n;;i.ake any such reduction as the Bureau's operations were already on a "strict 
austerity" basis. 
The Department cut our fiscal year 1961 budget request by $400,000, 
reducing it from $117,500,000 to $117,100,000, thereby eliminating 45 employees 
for the field (30 Special Agents and 15 clerks). 
The Bureau is in no position to effect a 2% reduction in. personnel 
during fiscal year 1960. Our work loads in all categories continue to be heavy 
with no sign of any abatement. LegislatiOJ:! enacted in the closing days of Congress, 
specifically the Labor Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959, will 
further bolster our work volumes for which funds· have not been provided and to 
attempt to reduce our personnel by 2% would seriously impair this Bureau's 
ability to discharge its responsibilities in all fields of work. 
3. SALARY RETENTION ACT, PUBLIC LAW 85-737 
This act provides a two-year period of salary retention for employees 
demoted through no fault of their own if they have occupied a higher paying position 
for two years or longer. This act has caused a most inequitable situation by 
requiring employees who accepted temporary promotions to be paid more than 
per·manent employees who are 'doing identical work. By memorandum dated 
July 17, 1959, we urged the Department to recommendJ.egislation so as to change 
this situation at the earliest possible time. To date no legislation has been 
introduced which would effect the desired correction of this inequitable situation . 
.. 
- 2 -
----------- - --- ------------ --- ------- -----
