.. 
t f 
• 
,t 
,. .. _Jo, ___ ...... ,If, .... 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION AND THE UNITED STATES 
··SECRET SERVICE CONCERNING PROTECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES 
"AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION AND THE T,JNITED STATES 
SECRET SERVICE CONCERNING PROTECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES 
[ 11I. Purpose of Agreement 
"The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) originates, and receives from 
other sources, large numbers of reports on individuals and organizations. 
One purpose of this agreement is to define that portion of the information 
on file with, or received or originated by, the FBI, which the United States 
; Secret Service (USSS) desires to receive in connection with its protective 
responsibilities. 
11The USSS has statutory authority to protect, or to engage in certain 
activities to protect, the President and certain other persons. (Certain 
other persons, as used in this agreement, refers to those persons protected 
by the Secret Service under Title 18, U.S. Code, Section 3056.) The 
authority of the USSS to protect the President or certain other persons is 
construed to authoriz•e it to investigate organizations or individuals and to 
interview individuals who might constitute a threat to the President or. cer­
tain_other persons. The FBI has statutory authority to investigate assault, 
killing or kidnaping and attempts or conspiracies to kill or kidnap the 
President and other designated individuals. 
"The FBI will make available to the USSS inf orm:3ti nn .; + !,'!?.~• :--:::-;:.::::::'.: v .... luf" uJ.­
, ::-.~~-:::i.::. •• wli_;_1..,i1 ·uy its nantre reveals a def in"i te • or possible threat to the 
safety of the President and certain other persons. 
"A second purpose of this agreement is to L:1sure the most effective pro-
-- tection for the Pr1::sidet,t and certain othe:r pe1:sons by establishing a clear 
1 division of responsibility between the FBI and the USSS. Such division 
will also avoid compromising investigations or sources and needless duplica­
tion of effort. 
•1 11II ~ General Responsibilities 
1 "The USSS is charged by Title 18, U. S. Code, Section 3056, with the 
l responsibility of protecting the person of the President of the United 
,·States, the members of his immediate family, the President-elect, the Vice 
·• President or other officer in the order of succession to the office of 
• President, and the Vice President-elect; protecting the person of a former 
• President and his wife during his lifetime and the person of a widow of a 
i former President until her death or remarriage, and minor children of a former 
i President until they reach 16 years of age, unless such protection is declined; 
protecting persons who are determined from time to time by the Secretary 
of the Treasury, after consurtation with the Advisory Committee, as being 
• major Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates who should receive such 
• protection (unl!=!SS_ the candidate has declined such protection); protecting 
. the person of a·· :visiting head of a foreign state or foreign government 
. and, at the direction of the President, other distinguished foreign visitors 
to the United States and official representatives of the United States 
J performing special missions abroad (unless such persons decline protection). 
, I JI. 
~ ~~ .. ~ 
~ '{flJ t!fAlNEl> ~ • 
• 11.o~ co~~ flU. tN~•ol{t.~1cuss1.YUo t .. . 
H ~1.,1111.~s _J'\ u1. • .. 
' ',n'fi'J., (,l J..,_-,.l..L'j.,... 
NW 38296 Docld:32989fi28 Page 227 
