s .. 
( 
I 
6. 
SECTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATICNS 87F 
Recommendation • and preparation of A~.EX card:. 
a. When potential dangerousness of subject has been established, office 
of origin is to prepare recommendation to Bureau on FD-122, in 
triplicate. Forward original and copy to Bureau, and place copy in 
subject's file. FD-122 has three uses: (1) to recommend subject 
for /\DEX, (2) to submit changes for existing cards, and (3) to recom­
mend subject be deleted from ADEX. Submit abstract when recommending 
subject for ADEX, or removal from ADEX, but no abstra:ct for changes. 
b. When FD-122 is submitted to recommend subject for ADEX, attach additional 
page or pages setting out succinct summary of facts .on which recom­
mendation based. Facts must be in sufficient detail to support 
recommendation, including justification for designated category. 
c. If, at conclusion of investigation, subject is not being recommended 
for ADEX, closing communication should show reasons. 
d. Summary report must be submitted when subject is recommended for ADEX 
unless one was previously furnished to Bureau. In latter instance, 
up-to-date report or LI-IM should be submitted. If case is pending.be­
cause of outstanding leads, set out additional lead to follow 
authorization of ADEX card by Bureau. If case would otherwise be 
closed, place in pending-inactive status with lead·to follow approval 
by Bureau and then close administratively. 
e. Do not delay recommendations for ADEX because of absence of background 
or descriptive data. Submit recommendation with current repor~ and 
retain in pending status to obtain miss·ing items. 
f. Subjects missing or out of country may be recommended for "ADEX. FD-122 
should include data required for unavailable section. • 
g. If Bureau approves recommendation, ADTIX cards will be prepared. Copy 
of FD-122 will be returned stamped "ADEX card approved and prepared, two 
copies attached. Place description and phqtograph on_ reverse side of 
Geographical card." These cards should be filed in field office ADEX 
as outlined below. Place returned copy of FD-122 in subject's main file. 
h. When cards are received from Bureau, check data for accuracy. Cards 
• will be complete except for description and photograph, which are . 
maintained on separate card stapled tq back of one ADEX card. File 
this card in geographical section (except unavailable section cards.) 
Second ADEX card is filed in alphabetical section. 
Inclusion in Stop Index File . 
a. Submit FD-122 in triplicate to Bureau when designating Category I ADEX 
subjects who are extremists for inclusion in Stop Index File. 
b. Succinct summary with FD-122 should contain ,recommendation for inclusion 
in Stop Index File and appropriate descriptive data. 
c. After recom.~endation approved, the third FD-122 copy will be forwarded 
to the Voucher-Statistical Section which·maintains the Stop Index File 
for Category I ADEX extremist subjects. 
Content and appearance of ADEX card •• 
a. Data to appear on face of card 
When complete, face of ADEX card should contain following information. 
If any items are missing, keep case pending to obtain necessary 
information. Set forth under each item are possible categories in 
which subject may be classified and code letters for appropriate 
space on FD-122. These code letters will appear on cards received 
from Bureau. 
(1) Name and aliases 
Full and correct name and.aliases of subject 
(2) Race 
White (Caucasian) 
Negro 
Chinese 
Others 
w 
N 
C 
(All others, including 
Indian, etc.) 
0 
Orientals 
33 
4-13-72 
(except Chinese), American 
NW 38321 Docld:329895i'9 Page 1898 
l i 
! i 
I 
I 
! 
l I • ! 
! i I - l 
l 
I 
i i 
! i 
I I 
i 
! 
i 
I 
I I I i 
i i I ; 
i 
