) 
) 
\ 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVER~ 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVID-S 
87C 
(4) Records of private firms. Obtain pertinent available information 
from records of private firms such as past or present employers. 
Checks of credit agencies should be limited to securing identifyina 
information only. 
0 
(5) Contacts with neighbors and fellow employees. Such inquiries 
should be made only where there is expectation they will develop 
pertinent information not otherwise available. 
(6) Canvass of established sources and informants. Contact informants 
and sources in position to be knowledgeable concerning subversive 
groups with which subject is affiliated. 
(7) Physical and photographic surveillances. These should be 
considered on selective basis when circumstances indicate they 
may be productive. 
c. Interviews of subjects 
(1) Policy 
Subjects of investigation should be interviewed µnless there 
is a sound basis for not doing so. Generally, interviews should 
be considered after background inquiries have been completed 
and a good picture of subject's activ~ties ~eveloped. 
If a decision not to interview a subject is made, this should be 
fully explained in case file and FBIHQ advi~ed whenever FBIHQ 
is cognizant of investigation. 
(2) Purpose . 
To develop information regarding subversive activities in which 
the subject is engaged. 
(3) Approval to interview 
All interviews of subjects may be approved by SAC except following 
instances which require FBIHQ approval: 
(a) Deleted - • 
(b) When subject is nationally prominent or where circumstances 
otherwise indicate the interview could be widely publicized, 
such as labor leaders, educators, religious leaders or 
journalists. 
·(c) When interview is to be conducted in presence of subject's 
attorney and/or aideo 
(d) When subject is connected with institution of learning. 
(In those instances where FBIHQ approval is not required, case 
Agent should prepare a memorandum requesting SAC authority for 
interview. This memorandum should include a succinct resume of 
the case, including a review of office files concerning a subject, 
and should indicate the objectives of an interview. Memorandum 
must be approved by SAC or in his absence, by a designated official.] 
(4) Letter requesting FBIHQ approval to interview subject 
(a) Letter should concisely set 9ut available data concerning 
following items: 
I. Residence address, employment, race, date and place of 
birth, citizenship and any health factors which could 
affect conduct of intervi~w. 
II. Marital status, employment and ·citizenship of spouseo 
III. Succinct summary of subject's subversive activities, 
membership of affiliation with subversive groups, and 
positions held. 
IV. Similar summary regarding spouse's affiliation with 
subversive activities. 
V. Similar summary concerning subversive activities on 
part of close relatives. 
VI. Resume of subject's current sympathies and status in 
subversive movement or organization and any indication 
of disaffection. 
11 
2-13-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page rn:n 
I I 
I 
i • I 
I 
i 
I ! 
