13-QOOOO 
t 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES - cont'd 
Although this is the first report on the possibility of 
a Cuban-sponsored Venezuelan government-in-exile, the Cuban 
radio and press have been emphasizing the slogan that the 
Betancourt goyernment does not represent the people and that 
the real representatives of the people are to be found in the 
ranks of the Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN). Ac­
cording to Cuban newspapers, Pedro Duno, a former professor 
of the Central University of Venezuela, arrived in Havana to 
join··_ the "mission" of the FALN in Havana. (CIA Munich TDCS-
3/566, 731, 5 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM) 
The OAS I~vestigating Committee which is looking into 
the Cuban arms cache discovered in Venezuela does not intend 
to limit its investigation to the cache. The group has no 
intention to expand its study to cover domestic political as­
pects of. the FALN or Communist Party activities; however, the 
members expressed interest in looking into such aspects as 
Cuban broadcasts inciting to violence, possible transfer of 
funds from Cuba, training of Venezuelans in Cuba in subversive 
techniques, and evidence of other clandestine arms shipments. 
In addition to examining the arms cache, the committee also 
voiced interest in hearing tapes of recent Cuban broadcasts, 
examining transcripts of interrogations and documents seized 
from captured terrorists, saboteurs, and guerrillas, talking 
to Venezuelan authorities responsible for combating terrorism 
and insurgency, and possibly interviewing some prisoners. In 
a meeting with the eommittee, the Venezuelan foreign minister 
placed emphasis.on vverification of the Cuban origin of the 
arms cache, but also indicated his government would furnish 
all possible evidence on the Venezuelan complaint that the 
committee might want. (To Am Emb Caracas 485, 5 December, 
CONFIDENTIAL) 
An American woman told a Unitarian minister in New York 
on 5 December that her "boy friend," a former RAF flyer and 
soldier-of-fortune, has left for an unknown destination in 
Central America from which he will fly in a pro-Castro coup 
in Venezuela tomorrow. Dr. Wal.ter Kring, minister at the All 
Souls Unitarian Church, told a UStJN. official yesterday that 
he had been approached by an American woman who asked him to 
get her story "into the proper channels." The woman stated 
that lter friend left New York on 5 December by unknown means 
for an unidentified location in Central America. He told her 
that he would fly to Venezuela on 7 December in connection with 
a pro-castro coup which she would read about in the Sunday 
papers. 
-10-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
