13-oooqo 
SECRET 
SH: We solved that problem. 
BL: Because the IG report criticized the Bay of Pigs 
Operation because of the poor 
coordination/communication between Miami and 
Headquarters. 
SH: We did it without knowing that. We set up our 
organization without knowing what way they had done it 
before. It was sheer luck. You had Harvey and you had 
Helms. Two old hands in the DDP business, and that's 
the way we set it up. But I think if we.had known what 
the problem was in the Bay of Pigs operation I think we 
would have been helped a bit, in terms of at least 
watching out for that because there could have been a 
real problem if somebody had said it back here, "Hey 
you're doing it all wrong you know; you can't have a 
station in the United States." Well, in this case we 
didn't even ask anybody, and we didn't ask Landsdale, 
and we didn't the President, and we didnit ask Bobby, 
we just did it our way, and with the support of a guy 
called Larry Houston, CIA's General Counsel, who said, 
"Set it up any way you want to," in effeci. "You guys 
are responsible and you are reporting to the President; 
go, and go with God." And we did. But I think we 
would have felt a lot more, at least I would have felt 
more comfortable, in knowing that we weren't going to 
face some of the problems that Jake Esterline had 
faced. One of the things we didn't have to worry 
about, and Jake did have to worry about, is this 
business of the air support. We weren't worrying about 
air supper~ because we weren't operating in Air Branch 
or anything like that. Jake's problem, for example -
which Bissell thought he had solved by that memorandum 
that he wrote in October of 1960 where he set up the 
command relationship between DPD and Branch 4 .... It's 
fine on a piece of paper, but I asked Jake specifically 
"How'd it work?~ He said it didn't. Those things just 
don't happen, the way you write them on a: piece of paper 
and dictate in a memorandum. 
MW: Development Plans Division, DPD, acted as an 
independent entity and basically answered to the DDCI 
Cabell. 
SH: Well, first they answered to a guy called Bissell. It 
was Bissell's private air force, and he ran it as his 
private air force. Fortunately we didn't have to worry 
about that one, but Jake did, and all the memorandums 
in the world didn't help any on that one~ Listening to 
3 
SECRET 
