SECRET 
expecting to leave for Cuba in the near future for training. 
CIA has increased its personnel assigned to travel control 
functions· at the Panama City airport, now permitting a three­
man detail for each eight•hour shift. Station is continuing 
its pressure on Panamanian officials to tighten travel 
controls. 
16. Nicaragua - The Nicaraguan Security Services with 
whom the CIA station is Jn liaison have been cooperative 
in their efforts to take suitable action based on the 
Managua resolutions. Cuban activity in, Nicaragua appears 
to be at a minimum, and the government has the will and 
ability to control it. 
17. Peru - Through the cooperation of a Peruvian 
intelligence organization, CIA officers have been able to 
participate ih the interrogation of sev~ral Cuba-trained 
guerrillas who were rec~ntly captured wJ1~n. they attempted 
to enter Peru near Ptiertb Maldonado. T~e ibterrogation 
should provide additional data on guerrilla training, 
Soviet activities in Cuba, and particul~rly on Cuban 
support to guerrilla activities in Peru:. Further infor­
mation has been obtained through a unilateral asset of 
the station who is active in guerrilla activities of the MIR. 
An investigation of small arms manufacture in a machine 
shop in Lima is underway at the urging of the station. The 
station has furniphed additional technical equipment to 
the Peruvian Naval Intelligence Service to increase its 
capability to intercept clandestine radio communications from 
Cuba, and partly as a result of CIA station urging, that 
organization has been able to obtain 12 investigators 
assigned by another Peruvian internal security service to 
assist in ,the investigation of subversive activities in 
the port areas of Peru. A Communist penetration agent, who 
is being ruri jointly by the Peruvian Internal Security 
Service and the CIA station, has been offered an opportunity 
to go to Cuba for training. Considerable information 
concerning the Peruvian MIR plans for financing the 
acquisition of arms, communications equipment and other 
information concerning MIR guerrilla activities has been 
acquired through a unilateral asset of the station. 
18. Uruguay - Sta.tion has. made a:rrangements with local 
service to pigeonhole .o:r "losell applications for good 
conduct certificates - which are. needed to secure passports, 
and must be renewed every six months - in cases where 
information from the CIA station or fr'om the Uruguayans 1 
SECRET 
NW .~095.~ Docld.: 32424015 Page 16 
