13-00000 
f' 
( SECRET ( 
DOI 50-10 
DDO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
e. Employees of 1U.S. Private Detective Investigatice Agencies) 
DDO policy prohibits the operational use either in· the United States 
or overseas of the employees of any U.S.-owned or -controlled' private) 
/ -- , \_ 
. detectiv~ ipvestigatiy~ _ Mency] This policy does not apply to operational 
use of employees. Qf organizations which are engaged strictly in commercial 
or credit investigations.; • 
- ' • 6. EXTRA-AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED 
a. Empwyee3 of Other U.S. Gocernment Agencies) 
Approval for the operational use of staff or contract ( including foreign) 
employees of other U.S. Government agencies· will be granted only in 
cases where the employee's parent agency in Washington/bas been notified 
of and bas approved of the intended operational use in accordance with 
the provisions of.DOI io,.s. • 
• b. DDO Agents or Assets in the .United States/ _ 
In accordance with the agreement existing behveen. the Federal. Bureau) 
• of Investigation and. this Age~cy,) the restrictions listed below apply • to • •• 
•• the operation·al act{vity of the Ope'rations' Directorate conducted in·: the1 
United States. ·coordination with the FBI of appropriate infonnation on'. 
bDO operational activities in the United States is the responsibility of 
the Chief, Liaison Group, Operations Staff. • 
(1) All investigations by this Agency of foreign officials in the Unitec;l.J 
• States require the prior concurrence of the • Fl}IJ In this context, the 
term :-investigation" means systematic and direct inquiries or pro-, 
cedures (such as physical or technical surveillances or neighborhoo~! 
inquiries): aimed at developing info1mation concerning an individual's 
acti.ities or background; ~Tii\T.est_!gati9p" ;does not include the ac­
ceptance or the development of information through social contacts· 
or contacts normally made by Agency officials in discharging their 
cover functions. 
( 2) Any approach in the United States by a DDO elemenCfor recruit-: 
ment of any foreign official or of any visitor from a Communist country; 
requu:es the prior concurrence of the· FBI. • 
( 3) Any planned meeting in the United States for assessment and social 
d_eveloprnent between fa DDO element and a foreign offici::11 of known 
:or presu.med interest to the FBI o, beh~·een a DDO element and ani 
'official or· visitor from a Cotnmunist coiiritry·;equires that priqr poti-i 
fication be provided to the_ FBI.i' • _ • - • • • 
(4) Whenever domestic DDO operations involve matters pert:li.nin; to 
the national security of the United St~tes,: appropriate i<lentilica::ion 
of persons engaged in the operations in the United States will be 
(} 
SECRET 
. . 
t 
.. • 
-; 
' 
-~ j 
. ; 
._,: . 
