INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY 
In 1943-45, the government began looking toward 
a worldwide intelligence system. The alternatives 
were the military~ OSS, State, and FBI. FDR 
allegedly assured Hoover that he would be respon足
sible for setting up the post-war system. Papich 
never saw any documents showing that Hoover wanted 
this job. The Latin American operation was 
successful but Hoover never understood or had a 
feel for ;the problems. He felt insecure. He never 
traveled outside the U. S., and only saw things 
from Washington, D. C. 
Under President Truman, Hoover did not have a 
"warm" relationship with the President. When the 
Central Intelligence group was formed and the 1947 
Act drafted, Hoover's attitute was mistrust and 
lack of confidence in the group creating CIA. 
were a different type of people, not law 
oriented. Ivy League students of for 
did not speak Hoover's language. 
Papich states it was a "b oover did 
not get the job. Hoover omfortable" when 
confronted with worldwid He did not under-
stand relationships and ope tions abroad. In the 
U. S., for instance, if Hoover had a problem with 
a police chief, he just cut off relations. He 
couldn't do that with foreign police. A foreign 
intelligence service cannot operate like a domestic 
intelligence agency. 
In 1952, when Papich became FBI-CIA liaison, rela足
tionships between the agencies were a mess. Beedle 
Smith was CIA director. There were many flaps 
between FBI and CIA over CIA political and psycho足
logical warfare, especially regarding the funding 
of labor groups, student groups, and political 
parties. At the time of the 1947 Act, these tech足
niques of "covert action" were the subject of 
tremendously heated battles between CIA and State. 
There were fewer flaps in the counterintelligence 
field. 
In the field of political and psychological warfare 
operations, the CIA didn't want stereotyped people. 
Page J of $ 
The CIA was not disciplined and ignored jurisdictional 
agreements. It would contact a U. S. newsman about a 
NW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 5 
