13-00000 
...... _;11.:;.-.':.;,;,· 
~-#-~?1: 
• 
··-.. ,••. 
have discussed the matter, naturally, with Mr. McCone, the Director of CIA, 
and he, of course, will no doubt appear himself, but there is no indication at 
all that he was employed by them. We frequently get that kind of a story 
from individuals who, when theY: get into some kind of difficulty, will claim they 
were working for the CIA or they were working for the FBI. 
Representative Booos. Surely. 
Mr. HoovER. Now, no one can work for the FBI without the approval being 
given at Washington and a record kept of it, even of the confidential informants. 
That is very tightly controlled. We have no so-called lump sum that we can 
use to hire people. So there has to be a voucher and specific details of payment . 
And I know at no time was he an informant or agent or a special employee or 
L working in any capacity for the FBI. 
• As to the interviews we had with him in which he gave us some informa-
tion, some of it was not the truth, but this was not particularly significant. 
The interviews we had with him I would not term as talking with an informant. 
He was interviewed while under arrest by the New Orleans police, and then 
after he had committed this act of assassination we interviewed him in police 
headquarters in Dallas. But they were the only contacts we liad, I think 
four contacts altogether, and he received no money of any kind, no promise 
of any kind, and there was no indication that he was rendering assistance to 
the U.S. Government. We looked upon him as a criminal after the assassination, 
of course, and prior to that time we looked upon him as an individual who we 
suspected might become an agent of the Soviet government. There was_ no 
proof of that, and we checked him carefully. • 
We knew of his contact with the Soviet Embassy here at Washington, his 
contact with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee in New York, and his contact 
with the Worker publication in New York. And none of those contacts gs,:ve 
any indication of any tendency to commit violence. 
There are many people who read the Dally W()rker, or what ls now the 
Worker, and you certainly can't brand them as hazards to the security of the 
country or as potential assassins. It ls in that area that I am particularly 
concerned that we don't become hysterical and go too far 1n restricting the 
citizens of our country from. exercising their civil and constitutional rights. 
The mere fact a person disagrees with you in a matter on communism doesn't 
mean he should be arrested. Many Communists make very violent speeches, • 
aJid we know them, but I don't feel that the time has come that they should be 
arrested. If they have violated the laws of the United States, we will, then; 
proc~ with prosecution, and the cases can then go through the courts. • Such 
cases last for years· before they get to the Supreme Court, and even then such 
cases often start over on some legal· angle. But, all in all, I think that the 
enforcement of security and the enforcement of laws dealing with subv~rslon 
ought to be handled in the American manner. 
I am criticized by the extreme right for that. They put me in the category, 
I guess, along with General Eisenhower. But the extreme left criticizes me, 
saying I believe ·that any person who has on a red necktie may be addicted to 
communism, and, therefore, ls a great danger. That is why I say the extremists 
at both ends are bad, and I have repeated that several times publicly. 
Representative Booos. No doubt about the problem being a difficult one .• 
I remember some years back when these fanatics started shooting up the 
House of Representatives .. 
Mr. HOOVER. I recall that. 
Representative Booos. I happened to•be there on the occasion and there were 
many suggestions that we build a bulletproof glass enclosure around· the Mem­
bers of Congress and so on. Of course, all of us rejected those ideas because 
it would be totally incompatible with our democratic institutions • and this, 
obviously, becomes a problem in the security of the President; that is what 
you are telling us, isn't it? 
Mr. HOOVER. That is the great problem. We have participated in the pro­
tection of the President since the assassination. The Secret Service indicates 
how many agents it needs when the President is traveling somewhere or going 
somewhere in Washington, and then I assign that number of agents to the 
Secret Service. They are not under my direction. They are under the direction 
106 
