( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
F. 
PART II 6E - G 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
3. Auxiliary offices are to advise the office of origin by letter of the 
results obtained through a circular letter. Office of origin should 
summarize the results in its next report. 
4. One copy of the circular letter is to be filed. A list of addresses is to 
be attached. Upon the receipt of a reply, the addressee 1 s name is to be 
checked to indicate this fact. Replies which are entirely negative 
should not be filed unless there is reason for doing so. O'nly negative 
replies are to be destroyed after handling in accordance with item 3 
above. Sub-A files may be used when the number of replies to be filed 
is large. 
[5. [A 66 file may be opened to retain copies of circular letters distributed 
in order to facilitate the handling of incoming inquiries and replies. 
Only one copy of each circular letter is to be filed therein. If the 66 
file is maintained, the material therein is to be destroyed after it is a 
year old if it is no longer needed.] 
[6.} Circular letters and other information to be distributed or·released to 
the public must be so worded as to be unobjectionable to ·any race, creed, 
or religion. 
[7.J Trade publications may, with advance Bureau approval, be used to pub~icize 
information concerning fugitives known to be active in-particular ·trades, 
businesses, or professions. The field office where the publication is 
located should check its indices concerning the publication, as well as 
the person or persons who will have to be contacted, before seeking Bureau 
approval, and sufficient identifying data should be furnished so that an 
appropriate Bureau indices check may be made. 
R.ADIO BROADCASTS 
Radio broadcasts without advance Bureau approval may be made in hot-pursuit 
fugitive cases. Care must be exercised in broadcasting a license number 
believed used by fugitive as it may be dLsposed of to an innocent third per­
son. 
G. FIELD OFFICE LISTS 
1. Law enforcement officials 
Page 
No. 
4 
7 
3 
a. On March l of each year all field offices shall forward to the Bureau 
in duplicate, and with a space left between the officials of each 
department, a list of such law enforcement officials and. agencies 
whose cooperation might be helpful. Indicate by an asterisk any 
change which was not previously called to the Bu~eau 1 s attention. 
(1) Chiefs of police • 
( 2) Sheriffs 
{3) State police or highway patrol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
•• ( 4) U. S. Marshals and deputies 
(5) Ranking Federal law enfo~cement officers 
7) District attorneys or county prosecutors 
8) Railway police {if desirable) 
9) Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins l
6} Wardens of penal institutions 
( 10) .Any other officials who receive identif:icati·on orders 
b. Changes in the list are to be reported in duplicate to the Bureau 
as they occur. 
c. Letters advising the Bureau of changes are to be set up as indicated: 
City "Deleted 
Center City, Iowa .Tohn M. Doe, Sheriff 
[zip code] Wayne County 
.Tone svi 11 e, Iowa Richard Brown 
[zip code] Chief of Police 
BroYmsville, Iowa George Smith 
[zip code] Constable 
3a 
1-27-67 
Added 
R. Roe, Sheriff 
Wayne County 
George Smythe 
Remarks 
Deceased 
successor 
not named 
To show 
correct 
spelling 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 992 
