14-00000 
. ,.. . .. . ·.'-
12 May 1970 
,1oinornndum in Liou of Fitness Report for Cecil J. KLOBUKAR 
tor the Period 3i Mnrch 1969 to 31 Mnrch 1970 
Cecil .J. ·KLODUKAR, a career agent,-has boon primarily.targeted 
again&t tho local consular community.during this reporting per­
iod. For this purpose.he has maintained momborsh1p in two 
local orKanizations conce~ned'witb foreign affairY. ¥,ore than 
that, hu has be.en an active contributor to their prograJIIJlling 
and hnM pnrtlcipated in most of their social and.cultural 
functionH.. This has enablod him to come in contact with a rela­
tlvel-Y largo number of consulate of.ficors. During- the past· year 
he ha& m.,t, -on ono or more occas·ions, thirty congular members. 
lie is concentrating, however~ on the ten coQsulates which have • 
ropro~entation in tho denied and semi-dcniP-d areas. Within this 
area ho iH further refining tho target by attempting to contact 
tho moro Junior.officers who give promise of a longer future 
·c·aroer and a greater chance of· being postod to an area of opera­
tional interest, To date, he has succeeded in establishing such 
contactH in the Japanoso, Finnish and Indian Consulates. In this 
last caNo he has successfully passed tho target to another Dnse 
otJicor f_Q~ further development.and hopes to accomplish the same 
with bis Japanese and Finni~h ~ontacts. 
In addition to this primary responsibility, KL08UK.\R also handles 
a support asset who is targeted against tho academic community. 
lie is directing this asset's ef!orts in the cultivation of two 
promising leads -- one, Japanese and the other, Vietnamese, 
Doth of these cases are progressing very well due in great part 
to tho .direction and guidance· which KLOBUKAR gives to _tho support 
asset. • 
KLODIJKAh also played a very important and direct role in the 
asso~Hm~nt and intermediate cultivation of TWPARltOT/1 and 
TWPAltROT/2 who were subsequently successfully recrui tcd. He 
is now developing a local QKWAFER student who is an interesting, 
but diffic~lt, ~ecruitment prospect. 
KLOBUKAlt is cost conscious in the expenditure of operational 
funds; he does not. have supervisory responsibilities. 
t 
