( 
( 
( 
' 
A. 
SEC'.I.'IOM 107 )sEcuRrrY Ilil!' ORI1AUT S 107A ~ B 
DEFIHITIONS 
• 1. Securi·l;y informant 
Inc1i via ual actively engaged in obtaining an,1 furni::hing cu-rrn:1t. inf or­
mation ~n security matters exclusively for Bureau and whose i· Jntity 
must be protected. S1.1ch person should be a mem1Jcr or a·l;tend . etinf{S 
of a subversive- organization, such as the Communist P2.rty; or ',; in 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or esplonage 
activities or intelligence activities in the u~ S. on behalf of foreign 
principal that he is able to obtain and.does provide cur~ent infor­
mation of value. 
2. Potential security informant 
IndividuRl in a position to be6ome active in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence activities in th~ U. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirm2.tive effort through associations or conta.c·t;s so tlu:d; he can be 
in a position actively to obt«.in and furnish current information to 
Bureau. 
3. Double agent 
A s;:-,ecialized type of security informant; a ,perso11 who is cooperating 
with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreiin 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance, 
4. Confidential source ' 
An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available 
to him through his present position. Examples would be: bankers and 
telephone company employees. These indiYiduals make no concerted effor·t 
on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain ~ni furnish information readily 
available to them. 
B. SOURCES OF POTENTIAL SECU~ITY INFORMANTS 
Informants should be developed on all organizations and individuals that 
are i!'i:•,ical to the internal security. Experience has shown that poten-tial 
inforn,·.nts may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal inves ti­
ga ti ve activity. Live informant coverage depends for the most part upon 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs. For assistance 
in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested: 
l. Evaluation of 
a. Complainants in security matters 
b. Persons interviewed in connection with security cases 
c. Subjects of security inves,tigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hard­
ship, ~r other repudiation of party l~yalty 
d, Bureau applicants as possible informants 
e. Personal friends and contacts of Special Agents and other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidential sources~ and contacts on con-
tinuous basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
3. Review of reserve index 
4. Ascertain possibilities of reaoti va·~ing former conf~_denti:3:l informant_s. • 
·-s. D'eletecl • • • • • • • ·: . 
6. Review factionalism section of file on Communist Party, USA. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding.indications of disaffection 
on the part of Communist Party members. Tiley, of course, should not be 
informed as to the purpose of the inquiry. ' 
B. Review of files on communist front organizations looking for individuals 
who have been associated with only one qr two fronts or who attended· only 
a few rnee·~ings of a front. Such ind.ividuals frequently are innocent of 
communist propensities, yet -~hey have a basis for cult-tvating the 
acquaintance of party members, 
3 
4-:13"-65 
NW 8-8321 Docld:32989529 1371 
