threatened to appeal to the President to over­
turn the Review Board's votes,· but the 
Review Board's position Was that the JFK Act 
required release of information where CIA 
did not provide convincing evidence to sup­
port their postponements. The Review Board 
allowed the CIA ample time to gather and 
present its evidence to support its requests 
for postponements as bot_h the CIA and the 
Review Board hoped to avoid a CIA appeal 
to the President. 
Ultimately, the CIA determined that it would 
trust Review Board members with the infor­
mation that the Review Board required to 
postpone the release of ;the location of a 
small number of CIA installations. In an 
effort to balance high public interest in the 
location of CIA installations and the need to 
protect certain installations, the Review 
Board decided to establish date "windows" 
within which it would release CIA installa­
tion locations. 
The CIA never appealed a Review Board vote 
to the President. 
g. CIA prefixes (cable, dispatch, field report). 
i. Review Board guidelines. CIA cable, dis­
patch, and field report "prefixes" are identi­
fiers that CIA uses on its communications to -
indicate the installation that generates a par­
ticular message. Where the Review Board 
had voted to release the location of a particu­
lar CIA installation, the Review Board also 
voted to release CIA cable, dispatch, and 
field report prefixes that the installation gen­
erated. Likewise, the Review Board protected 
cable, dispatch, and field report prefixes 
_ where it voted to protect the location of the 
CIA installation. 
The Review Board replaced the prefixes that 
it protected with substitute language similar 
to that used for CIA installations. An exam­
ple of substitute language for CIA prefixes is: 
"Cable Prefix for CIA Installation in Western 
Hemisphere l." 
ii. Commentary. Once the Review Board 
voted to release the location of a particular 
CIA installation, the Review Board and CIA 
did not disagree that the Board should release 
cable, dispatch and field report prefixes. 
I 
55 
h. CIA job titles. 
i. Review Board guidelines. The Review 
Board voted to release CIA employees' job 
titles except when the Board's disclosure of 
the title might reveal the identity of an indi­
vidual or CIA installation requiring protec­
tion. 
ii. Commentary. Although the Review 
Board did not believe that it should vote to 
protect CIA job titles, standing alone, it some­
times voted to protect titles if they revealed 
other information that the Review Board had 
voted to protect. 
i. CIA file numbers. 
i. Review Board guidelines. CIA organizes 
many of its files by country and assigns 
"country identifiers" within particular file 
numbers. The Review Board released nearly _ 
all CIA file numbers that referred to Mexico 
City. The Review Board protected the "coun-
try identifiers" in CIA file numbers for all 
other countries with the exception of country 
identifiers "15" and "19." The Review Board 
generally released all CIA "201" or "person­
ality" file numbers where the files related to 
the assassination. 
ii. Commentary. The CIA rarely objected 
to the Review Board's release of its file num­
bers. 
j. CIA domestic facilities. 
i. Review Board guidelines. The Review 
Board released references to domestic CIA 
facilities where the CIA has previously offi­
cially disclosed the existence of the facility. 
The Review Board did not release informa­
tion that would reveal the location of domes­
tic CIA facilities where the CIA provided evi­
dence that the facility was still in use. 
ii. Commentary. The Review Board rarely 
encountered the issue of whether to release 
the location of CIA domestic facilities in 
assassination records, as CIA officially 
acknowledges most of its domestic facilities. 
When the Review Board did vote to postpone 
the location of CIA domestic facilities, it 
required the CIA to provide extensive evi­
dence as to why the CIA had to keep the loca­
tion of those facilities secret. 
t~¥.~it,:1~ 
