PRESS RELEASE OF MARCH 15, 1967 
ISSUED BY REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMEN'S "WEDNESDAY CLUB" 
ENTITLED "ARE WE ORGAN1ZED TO FIGHT CRI.l"VIE?" 
On March 15, 1967, a group of 21 generally liberal 
Republican Congressmen, members of the "Wednesday Club," issued 
a press release challenging the adequacy of the Federal Government's 
organization to fight criine effectively and called for expansion of the 
House Judiciary Committee's hearings considering crime legislation 
to examine this aspect of the war on crime. The gist of their argument 
is tlrat a reorganization of Federal law enforcement and inyestigative 
agencies is needed to effectively carry on the war against crime. The 
press release suggests that there is "confusion, competition and dupli­
cation" among Federal law enforcement and investigative agencies v1hich 
is hindering the war against crime and that this can be eliminated only 
through a complete reorganization of these agencies. 
The entire argument of the "Wednesday Club" is based on 
a false premise. Traditionally and historically, law enforcement in this 
country has been the responsibility of local governments and states. 
The Federal law enforce.ment agencies make only approximately 50,000 
arrests per year for Federal violations, while local and state police 
make over six million arrests for criminal acts, not including traffic 
offenses. Federal investigative agencies have very little jurisdictional 
control over the more than three million serious crimes committed in 
the United States in 1966. Reorganization of the Federal law 
enforcement agencies is not the answer to the crime problem. The 
real proble1n is at the local level where there are 40,000 invesfigative 
agencies, ranging from city constables to state police, and the problem 
of multiplicity of jurisdiction is within the· state. From the standpoint 
of the FBI, there is daily liaison and exchange of information \Vith all 
Federal, state and local law enforcement agencies; our important 
cooperative services are made available to all law enforce1nent agencies, 
both on the state and Federal level; and the FBI's National Crilne Infor­
mation Center is an example of the cooperation which exists a1nong la\v 
enforcement agencies on all levels. 
The press release of the "Wednesday Club" states that 
the FBI maintains an infor1nal sen1i-autonon1y fro111 Administration 
I 
I .. 
I :. . . : " 
.--r' .,:;•":", 
jil! 
i. 
• .,.____ -- -- ------- ------==-I 
NW 3 ~~~-u:321"""'"'L'"lw4 
, Page 472 
