14-00000 
24 May 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Special Group 5412 Meeting - 23 May 1963 
9~ 
1. Gfter general discussion the North Viet Nam paper as presented 
by Colby was approved with the exception of Item b. State took the position 
that work with isolated ethnic groups in North Viet Nam should not be 
undertaken unless specifically approved by the Department. Defense raised 
the question of more extensive operations than anticipated by CIA and 
indicated that the JCS had developed a plan which would be submitted to 
the Secretary of Defense and then to the Special Group. I raised the 
question as to whether the General Harkins command working with the 
South Viet Nam army could conduct truly covert operations north of the 
17th parallel, pointing out that if such actions were attributed to either 
·the United States or the South Viet Namese, then the North Viet Namese 
with their substantial military organizations could retaliate against the 
South Viet Nam with punishing consequences. The JCS plan was not 
formally presented. No actions were taken~ although it is expected 
that it will be presented in the near future. 
ACTION: General Carter has had this matter under 
consideration with Admiral Riley. We 
should receive and study the JCS plan 
immediately upon its approval_;J 
2. Defense indicated that the Army have developed plans for large­
scale operations against Cuba involving sabotage. No presentation was made 
however the Special Group was advised that such a plan would be forthcoming. 
3. LJ?lan for dispos:U{af the 14,000 sacks of sugar in Puerto Rico was 
discussed. I explained the actions being taken by DDP under FitzGerald' s 
direction and indicated the sugar would probably be sold by the Soviets to a 
New York sugar broker who would in turn sell it to a non-U.S. port. The 
800 bags in question would be disposed 09 
4. {j_ reported the currenf'~atus of British Guiana as outlined in the 
attached paper. 
ACTION: Mr. Bundy asked that Mr. Helms follow 
British Guiana closely and keep in close 
communication with me and with himJ 
