-':!4-
( ·, 7/21/60). Nonetheless, the attitude toward Lumumba even at these 
( 
early meetings was vehement: 
Mr. Dulles said that in Lumumba we were faced with a 
person who was a Castro or worse ... Mr. Dulles went 
on to describe Mr. Lumumba's background which he de­
scribed as "harrowing" . . . It is safe to go on the 
assumption that Lumumba has been bought by the Commun­
ists; this also, however, fits with his own orienta­
tion. (NSC Minutes, 7/21/60) 
The President presided over the other two NSC meetings. After look­
ing at the records of those meetings, Johnson was unable to deter­
mine with certainty which one was the meeting at which he heard the 
President's statement (Johnson, 9/13/75, p. 16). 
However, the chronology of meetings, cables, and events in the 
Congo during this period makes it most likely that Johnson's.testi­
mony refers to the NSC meeting of August 18, 1960. 
The meeting of August 18 took place at the beginning of a series 
of events that preceded the dispatch of a CIA scientist to Leopold­
ville with poisons for the assassination of Lumumba.* The Septem-
ber 7 meeting took place in the midst of this series of events. 
"' The major events in the series, each of which is discussed in de­
tail in other sections of the report, may be summarized as follows: 
The week following the NSC meeting of August 18, the Special Group 
was informed of the President's "extremely strong feelings about the 
necessity for very straightforward action" and the Group agreed to 
consider "any particular kind of activity which might contribute to 
getting rid of Lumumba" (Special Group Minutes, 8/25/60). At this 
meeting, DCI Allen Dulles commented that "he had taken the comments 
referred to seriously and had every intention of proceeding as vig­
orously as the situation permits" (Special Group Minutes, 8/25/60; 
see Section 7 (a) (iii), infra). The next day, Dujles se~~ an "Eyes 
Only" cable under his personal signature to the(Chief 01/Station in 
Ntf 50955 Docid:32202487 Page 83 
