13-00000 
• ' SECRET 
that. Bissell was a one-man operator and Helms knew 
exactly what to expect from Tracy Barnes. 
BL: But the complaint is that, I think, in the IG report, 
Kirkpatrick's complaint about Helms is that Helm's did 
not ring the alarm bells. 
SH: He should have. Yes, I saw that, but I don't think you 
can blame Helmsj because he did stay away from it so he 
didn't know what alarm bells to ring. Is it personnel? 
Is it your operational approach? Is it the air field? 
Is it the air support? Is it the troops on the ground? 
What is it you .want him to ring alarm bells about? He 
didn't know. He had no idea. I'm not trying to defend 
him from that point of view; maybe he should have 
forced his way in, which would have meant a real 
confrontation with B1ssell. And with Allen Dulles 
looking the other way, Helms might not have found 
himself in any position to argue with anybody - he 
might have been out. So I think you've got to 
give .... I think Kirk, CIA Inspector General Lyman 
Kirkpatrick, was wrong in that particular aspect. Yes, 
the guy who's third in line should maybe say something 
to the guy who's second in line, but not when it's a 
closed corporation. I know people who argue both ways 
on this one, and I have too, but I think in the end you 
come down, saying that somebody had to watch the rest 
of the world, number one. And number two, no matter 
what Helms would hav~ said to Bissell about the quality 
of the personnel .... As I was about to say, when Helms 
came over to Quarters I, where we were in Branch 4 for 
Mongoose, and I showed him the roster of the people who 
had been on the Bay of Pigs, literally he went down the 
list saying, "hhhmmm, oh no, no, NO, hhmm, no it 
couldn't be." I just didn't say a word. There were 
three people in the room, Zag and me (and Zag is dead 
unfortunately), and Helms. And he's going down the 
list of people, including those we have left, in 
Mongoose. Of course, why do we have them left -
because nobody wanted them. Nobody wanted those extra 
people. And Helms said, "Is this what you have left to 
work with?" Zag said, "Yes sir. That's what we have 
left." That's when he picked up the phone. I'll tell 
you, it's the funniest thing. He picked up the phone, 
called J.C. King and said, "As of now Cuba is no longer 
part of WH Division. You have all the rest of the 
islands but Cuba is separate reporting to me." Boom. 
This is before Harvey comes along. This was well 
before. So Zag and I find ourselves a task force 
without calling ourselves a task force. The word 
Mongoose didn't come along until much later. 
9 
SECRET 
