'i: 107U 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
SECTION 107. SECUR.Y IHFORM.ANTS[.AND CONFIDEl-TTI-AL SOURCES] 
5. Utilization - .. , - • 
a~ If confidential source is to be used for assistance in security 
or racial investigations, secure Bureau approval, and background 
data must be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is 
required for potential security and potential racial informants. 
• b. [Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in which the 
frequency of contact is dependent upon circ·umstances of the individual 
case,]oonfidential sources on whom pending files are maintained should 
also be contacted at least once every two weeks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
~. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted. 
d. Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by the Agent 
or Agents speoifioally designated for that purpose. 
e. The letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use a subjeot 
as a confidential sou:r-ce ·:i. s to set out •clearly the following informa-
• tion: • • 
(i) Background information,, including date and place of birth~ 
• citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest 
record, and service record, if any 
( 2) Details of the expected. cooperation of captioned indi vidua·J:· 
as a confidential source, together with the results of .any 
interviews conducted with him· • ~ :-:'-
(3) A statement to the effect subject is being considered a con­
fidential source an4 that he will be advised he is not a~ 
Bureau employee ana of the con·fidential nature of his relation­
chip vrith the Bureau, In addition, a statement· should be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plan~, and 
if he is connected with a labor union he ·1...-ill be ad.vised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters. . 
£. If such request is·approved at the Bureau, a stamped ~otation is to 
be placed on the duplicate copy and this latter copy returned to 
the field indicating that authority is granted to consider subject 
as a confidential source, Letters requesting such authority are not 
to be transmitted to J~he Bureau until subject is sufficiently cooper-• 
ati,re and all necessary background information obtained .. 
6 •. •· Security and racial confidenti:;i,l .sources - certification of stability and: 
pp,ymeni;s .. _ 
a. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and racial 
confidential sources. See ·107N, [3b,] for form of let-ter-. 
b. If the security or rac:i.al source is not being paid on Bure2.u authoriza­
tion and is being used. regularly, the .Agent hant'lling the scuro<;i must 
dictate a memora11dum to the SAC for .the file ,~ontaining the same 
oertif:i.cat:i.on as to stability a.nd reliability as required. by payment 
letters. 
7. - - Gifts 
Gifts to sources shall not be reclaimed-as blu~ slip items. 
8. Dis continuance 
Ad-vise Bureau when oo"1fidential source is discontinued, ancl ·bhe reasons 
therefor. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1786 28 
\ J 
I 
/ 
' :,I 
