13-00000 
,. 
poo INSTRUCTION. 
NO. 50-10 
f' 
} SECRET 
_ .. 
I 
/ 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
e. Employees of U.S. Private Detective Investigative Agenci~s 
DDO policy prohibits the operational use either in the United States 
or overseas of the employees of any U.S.-owned or -controlled private 
detective investigative agency. This policy does not apply to operational 
use of employees of organizations which are engaged strictly in commercial 
or credit investigations. 
6. EXTRA-:AGENCY CONCURRENCE REQUIRED 
a. Employees of Other U.S. Government Agencies 
Approval for the operational use of staff or contract· ( including foreign) 
employees of other U.S. Government agencies will be granted only in 
cases where the employee's parent agency in Washington has been notified 
of and has approved of the intended operational use in accordance with 
the provisions of DOI 10-5 . 
. b. DDO Agents or Assets in the United States 
In accordance with· the agreement existing between the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation and this Agency, the restrictions listed below apply to 
• the operational activity of the _Operations Directorate conducted in the 
United States. ·coordination with the FBI of appropriate information· on 
DDO operational activities in the United States is the responsibility of 
the Chief; Liaison Group, Operations Staff. 
( 1) All investigations by . this ,!'\gency of foreign officials in the United 
States require the prior concurrence of the FBI. In this context, the 
term "investigation" means systematic and · direct inquiries or pro­
cedures ( such as physical or technical surveillances or neighborhood 
inquiries) aimed at developing information concerning an individual's 
activities or background; "investigation" does not include the ac­
ceptance or the development of information through social contacts . 
• or contacts normally made by. Agency officials in discharging their 
cover functions. • 
\ 
(2) Any approach in the United States by a .ODO elem~nt for recruit­
. ment of any foreign official or of any visitor from a Communist country 
requires the prior concurrence of the • FBI. 
(3) Any planned meeting in the United States for assessment and social 
development between a ODO element and a foreign official of known 
or presumed interest to the FBI or between• a ODO element and an 
official or visitor from a Communist country requires that prior noti-
fication be provided to the FBL • 
(4) Whenever domestic ODO operations involve matters pertaining to 
the national security of the United States, appropriate identification 
of persons ·engaged in the operations in the United States will be 
0 
SECRET 
.. . 
·) 
