I 1 
l 
j . 
want to get involved in any of the gambling businesses and would not therefore want· 
to purchase the hotel. It was at this point that Roselli conceived of the idea of 
trying to sell the hotel, and approached Kolod and asked if he would be willing to 
sell it. Kolod replied that if Roselli could make arrangements to sell it he would 
receive a finder's fee. Roselli then turned around and-asked Maheu if he 'Wanted to · 
purchase it. Maheu responded that he would and Roselli-turned t~e matter over to 
his attorney FA. Morgan· who then handled the matter until the end: Roselli also 
instigated some talk about the possibility of purchasing the Sands and 1 while he did 
not negotiate it, received at a later date from ~A. Morgan a check for ~95,000 which. 
represented his finder's fee for the sale of both the Desert Inn and the Sands. 
Roselli noted that while Moe Dalitz was the owner of. the Iksert Inn,-~h~: ~· 
did not negotiate with him because he found him less agreeable than Koloo.. He said 
that he had some minor dealings with Dalitz but none of them related to matters 
co'ncerning the Ias Vegas hotel industry. • • 
With regard to Fd Morgan, Roselli met him in the·· middle 50's. Since that 
time Morgan has represented him in different Las Vegas interests. He noted that 
Morgan did not represent him in his Friars' Club defense(but-4id-axr.ange fop Jim 
Cantillion, a Los Angeles attorney tp handlet" the matter). He said that he had no 
trouble with M::>rgan's handling of the Desert Inn finder's fee, since he trusted 
Morgan implicity~ He noted that Morgan had arranged for John Roselli to be represent 
by Tom Wadden, his present attorney. This representation first began on the appeal 
from the Friar's Club. • 
Roselli indicated' that his only present interest in Las Vegas concerns. 
his poldings in the gift shop at the Frontier hotel. His involvement there started 
in 1967 when he had an arrangement with Mr. Friedman. This set-up did not work.out 
and Roselli resigned as President of the gift shop. Thereafter he made an arrange-
ment with a Mr. Breen whereby he would furnish Breen with money and indemnify him 
against any losses if Breen would run the gift shop._ This arrangement has worked 
out fairly well an~ he continues to receive his share of the profits each year from 
the gift shop. He mentioned that it was his opinion that Breen had been poorly 
treated by the Hughes enterprises, since Hughes first purchased the Frontier. He 
recalls, at his last meeting with Maheu., asking Maheu to lend Breen $€o .,ooo for the 
girt shop. Maheu said he would get back to him but never did. Ultimately a loan 
was arranged· through Perry Thomas at the Valley Banlt of Nevada. 
Since !967 Rosell.1 has·seen Maheu only once. And while he does not recall 
the date of that meeting be remembers that it was in Los .Angeles before Maheu bad 
-terminated with Hughes. He recalls that Maheu was in Los Angeles at the time while 
his wife )l'a8 having a :f'oot operation, and that he called Roselli to have supper. 
Roselli has no recollection o:f' the conversation that the two had at supper other 
than that they discus~ed, as noted above., the possibility of arranging a loan :f'or 
Breen at the Frontier:Hotel Gift Shop. 
He said he has known Peter Maheu since the middle 1950's and that he went 
to Peter's wedding reception. His only involvement with Peter occurred whenever 
Robert Maheu wanted a'message conveyed to Roselli. He recalls no ~eeqqe~Svbs/J,~ 
discussions with Peter Maheu. 
He indicated he knew nothing about Iarry O'Brien, ·Tony Hats is, or Jack 
Cleveland. Similarly,he has no recollection of ever having met Bebe Rebozo, ard 
knows of the person only through newspaper articles. 
With regard to his appearance before the Frontier Hotel grand Jury in 
-----.~-----,---~-:-- . , ,-. :_:..: .. _ ·._.:_:::.:<.~~-=-.--. --:--- -· mt 50955 •• Do.crld.:32423153"0: ~.i.Ue:'34f)·, --s.~,,·i~r 
