NW 
( 
( 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
( 
[ 
6A 
SECTION 6. 
PART II 
P.CATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CON.TS 
2. Requesting authority for relea·s.e 
a. By teletype . 
At least four hours· before the time ·of release, developments in the 
case, an outline of the release, and statement release wili be made 
UACB are to be furnished the Bureau. 
b. By telephone wher~ time is of essence 
Confer with d:i,vision head. having supervision of the matter for 
investigative clearance and with the off.ice of the division head of 
the Crime Records Division for final press clearance.· While good 
judgment must. prevail, in important cases in which a local newspaper 
deadline is approaching, it may be advisable to telephone the Bureau 
for clearance. 
3. Press releases are to ~e ~ade personally only by the SAO or in his absence 
by the .ASAC. . 
4. Releases are to be made both at headquarters ·and the. local area affected 
by developments.· All material prepared for the public must be reviewed 
word for word. It is not to contain wo~ds or phrases which might be 
regarded as objectionable or offensive to a member of any race, creed, or 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized wherever 
possible~ and all press releases should be coordinated to elimi:nat_e, any 
avoidable delays. • 
5. In the absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the·,.p~blic inter­
est, no statement should be put in an announcement to the press to. _the 
effect that a subje-ct either has confessed or has admitted his crimes 
without specific Bureau approval.· In case of doubt, consult ~he Bureau. 
When the fact that a subject has given a confession is included in a com­
plaint and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press, a "no comment 11 reply 
should be given. The complaint is a court record and must be left to 
speak for itself. 
6. On-the-spot announcements by SAC are authorized in emergency.situations 
in vl'hich good judgri:l:l nt so dictates. • Emergency on-the-spot statements by 
Agents limited to their official identity and, if known, the identity of 
fugitive or criminal in gun battle. If badly wanted fugitive;apprehende~ 
in remo·te area and SAC absent, Agent may,, in rare emergency only and where 
time of essence, furnish bare details. Cqntact by SAC with p:ress should 
be effected immediately where press desires further details ... 
7. [In those instances in which a press release is issued at SOG, television 
and radio media should be merely provided with a written copy of the press 
release, and Bureau personnel should not submit to live, filmed, or tape­
recorded interviews of any kind, including the reading oj the release it- , 
s.elf, without prior Bureau authority. Tact and diplomacy must be exercised 
in declining to participate in such interviews. With respect.to local 
press releases, SAGs may, when requested, make personal appearances r;,n 
television and radio provided n~ intervi~ws are conducted an~ there is 
absolutely no elaboration over and above the original press releas~. 
These conditions should be made known in advance to. television and radio 
station representatives when such requests are received.]. • . . .. , 
8. In the absence of special circumstances, Bureau Agents should n$ver· suggest 
or request a reporter or another represe~tative of a newspaper or similar . 
publication to withhold the publication of news. In the event that special 
circumstances do exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bureau prior 
to making any such request. 
Page 1022 
la 
1-30-70 
( 
