SR:RET 
vm-NAM 
Current overall Evaluation 
.• 
\ The general trend appears slightly ·.favorable., with the .GVN continuing 
t~_..,~mprove its military, and to· a limited extent; its political and eccnc­
·mic ·position. • Basic problems are · being eroded but quick and decisive 
action is rareo There were no major breakthroughs or important· victories··· 
a..'Xl nO?eappear likely in the i.'11m9diate· rutureo 'lbe·Viet ·cong:-show no 
wakening in strength or determination despite reportedly heavy losseso 
On the military side, Operations. B1nh Minh and Hai Yen continued 
wello Viet Cong casualties were up and their activities doim."(there is 
an unconfirmed new report that a major battle took.place Jucy J, however, 
in which the VC defeated a regular army battalion~ This Jllay' be due to 
reorganization and weather rather than GVN -successes. The GVN took several 
good .but minor· s_t8P8 to increase popular support for tl)e var etf ort, and 
several rval ·e-id.al and economic programs· moved ahead· sigmi'ioantly.. On 
the international front, then vere some favorable responses to ·our efforts 
to set up an aid coordinating group of donor nationso Economic conditions 
improved somewhat, with· stable prices, credit a· little less tight, consu• 
mer goods sales and tax collections up, and rice deliveries contimled good. 
Fearing that the prospective Lacs settlement .will facilitate Viet Cong 
activ1ties and that it may presage a Uo So move to neutralize Viet 0 Nam it­
self', the GVN has made dif'ficultiea at Geneva over several issues and 
threatens to boycott the conference. President Kennedy' bas sent Diem a 
personal letter stressing the importance we attach toa Laos settlement 
and our determination to continue to help Viet-Nam defend itself o TheH 
is no response as yet. 
?rogress on Action Program 
1., VC Activity 
Viet Cong act1V1ty continued at a relatively low level"' nth amed 
attacks falling to the loveat po-lnt over a year, 60, for the period ·20.,.27 
JUI1·e am rising onl:, slightly to 75 for the period June 27 ... July 4o Tbe 
lack of VC aggres6iveness is likely due to t.h8 ra~ season and their 
et.torts to regroup L, order to counter tbe improved mc.bility and perf or ... 
r.mnce of the GVN rorces. Observing that this appears to be a period of 
VC reorganization and assimilation of recent infiltrators, COMUSMACV n, ... 
perts indications that VC units which pl:'eviousl,y·operated as separate 
platoons and compe:nies are nO"d being formed into battaliomio Infiltration 
evi.denti,, continuee, but good intelligence is scarce o MlGV J=-2 estilnate3 
intiltrat1on in May at 800°1,000 and 800 for the first three weeks o! Jun~, 
but this inf'ol'lllation is \!nCCJr.!~ed and thera are no 1•eports o£ infilt1•2 .. 
tion since o • 
SECRET err om, cc 
rr~:"\ 
I ._Y 
\ 
~-. 
