13~00000 
-
Mr. STERN. Specifically, the kind of information you were interested in, that 
is before the assassination? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes. Specifically the kind? 
Mr. STERN. Yes. 
Mr. BELMONT. Any information indicating the possibility of r threat against 
the President and Vice President and members of the family. 
Mr. STERN. Have you broadened-­
Mr. BELMONT. I may say, sir--
Mr. STERN. Yes. 
Mr. BELMONT. That this practice was assiduously followed, and you will find 
that the files of the Secret Sei:-vice are loaded with information over the years 
that we have furnished them. That was a _practice religiously followed and a 
practice voluntarily followed without request. In other words, we do not have 
a written request for this 'type of information but rather considered it our re-
sponsibility and duty to furnish this information. • 
Mr. STERN. Did you ever participate in or do you know of any discussion with 
the Secret Service before the assassination regarding the kind of information 
they were interested in?· 
Mr. BELMONT. We had close liaison with Secret Service, and I have no doubt 
that in oral discussions that the question came up .• I wasn't present but I 
i+01ild . assume it has come up, particularly as, we were constantly furnishing 
information. We have no written criteria, you might say, as to what should 
be furnished. • • 
Mr. STEBN. That is, established by the Secret Service. 
Mr. BELMONT. That is correct. 
Mr. STERN. And you yourself never participated in any discussion of-­
Mr. BELMONT. No; I did not. 
Mr. STERN. This liaison function. 
Mr. BELMONT. This is something we have done for years on the basis that we 
consider it our responsibility not only as far as th_e President goes. As you 
know, Mr. Chairman, we have also followed the same policy relative to other 
high officials when it appears desirable. 
Mr. STERN. Have you subsequent to the assassination augmented your inJ 
structions to ·special agents in this respect? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes. On December 26, 1963, we prepared additional instruc­
tions reiterating those already in effect, and adding other dissemination to Secret 
Service concerning the security of the President. • 
The CHAIRMAN. Where do those new ones appear in the exhibit, Mr. Belmont? 
Mr. BELMONT. They appear as an attachment-working from the back, I think, 
Mr. Chairman, I can help you most. 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes. 
Mr. BELMONT. Eight pages from the back it starts, .it reads, "Manual of In­
structions Section 83." 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes; !"have it. 
Mr. BELMONT. The first page is the same information that we previously fur­
nishe4 to Secret Service involving threats. 
The CHAIRMAN. The first page is intact, as it was before. 
Mr. BELMONT. There may be some slight changes in wording but essentially 
it is the same dealing with possible threats . 
. The CHAIRMAN. Yes. 
Mr. DULLES. Mi;-. Belmont, I wonder if it would be possible for the Commis­
sion's convenience to date each one of these papers as of a certain date. It is 
quite difficult going through it now without referring to the letter in each case 
to determine whether the instructions are as of the date of the assassination 
or as of the present date? 
Mr. BELMONT. We can do that without any difficulty. I would be glad to do 
it with the staff, or can I help you here? • 
Mr. DULLES. Well, I think we can do that later but I think it would be useful 
when this goes into the record for our later reference in studying ·this to have 
those dates available to us on each one of the attachments. 
Mr. BELMONT. Very good. 
17 
