( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
c. 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g. 
h. 
i. 
107M SECTION J ) SECURITY INFOR11AHTS .AHD CON: ·-,:NTI.AL SOURCES 
• -.,J •.. 
(2) Residence and employment (If no chang.ince last justification 
letter, merely state "no change.") 
(3) Current mnmbership[and position held]in subversive organiza-~ons 
[(When justification is submitted for racial informants, sub­
stitute the word "racial" for the word "subversive,"}] 
(4) Summary of information furnished ~.nd/or services rendered during 
pertinent period • 
(5) Amount paid for services and expenses by month 
(Initial justification letter should set forth amount, if any, 
ever paid under SAC authority.} 
Type and number of meetings attended and other activity 
Number of written and oral statements submitted 
(List separately.) 
Inform2.tion furnishe,l of unusual value 
Approximate number of persons on whom informant furnished coverage 
and their importance _ 
(1
11
0) Steps being taken to advance informant 
( ) Stabiiiiy and reliability . 
(Set forth personal weaknesses, domestic difficulties, indications 
of untrust·northiness or unreliability, or other similar problems· 
presented by informant, and steps being taken to prevent any such 
situations from later becoming source of embarrassment to the 
Bureau.) 
(12) Indoctrination against disclosure 
(State whether every opportunity has been taken to properly 
indoctrinate informant against making any disclosure of his 
~elationship with Bureau through any media.) 
All necessary action taken on information furnished 
l1iscellaneous 
(Any other matters concerning informant's operation which should 
~e brought to Bureau's attPn~ionl 
(Where applicable, substitute potential informant, confidential 
source, panel source, or source of information for the word "informant.") 
When payment to an info:cmant has been authorized for a definite 
period of time, advise the Bureau at least two weeks in advance of the 
expiration of the period for which payment has been authorized as to 
whether the ser·rices of the informant are to be continued. 
Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments, Follow form in 
subsection 3b. 
Letters requesting authority to continue (increase, decrease) payments 
to an informan·l; should be submitted in duplicate except that the 
copy should consist only of the first page of the letter. When 
payments as requested by the field are approved, the single-page 
copy will be stamped 11Approved 11 at the Bureau and returned. If the 
recommendation is not approved, correspondence will be prepared 
and transmitted to the 'field. 
In order for this system to function properly, payment letters must 
be expl-oit, , 
When payments are authorized by the Bureau, it is the personal responsi­
bility of each SAC definitely to assure-himself that full value is 
being received_ . 
Discontinuance of payments 
If at any time it appears the information being produced by t~e 
informant is not commensurate with the payments being made to him, 
the payments should be immed.iat-ely discontinued or adjusted acoordingly 
and the Bureau promptly advised. 
Extraordinary expenses 
In connection with the ope1·ation of paid informants, if any extraor­
dinary expenses are anticipated for which approval his not be,n given, 
obtain specific Bureau authority. 
19 
10-13-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1422 J 
