SECRET 
DISCUSSION 
A. Recruitment of Trainees 
1. Candidates for subversive training in Cuba 
are selected by the leftist organizations sponsoring 
such activity in their homeland. These organizations 
are not always Communist, particularly in countries 
where the regular Communist leadership is less mil­
itant than other extremist groups. One training 
group of Argentines included Peronists, Trotskyites, 
and Vanguard Socialists. A Peruvian group has sent 
to Cuba for extended guerrilla training youths who 
are not members of any organizations but have ex­
pressed leftist ideas. 
2. In countries where there is Cuban diplo­
matic representation, candidates are screened by 
the embassy's G-2 officer. We have no information 
on how approval is granted in countries which have 
no diplomatic relations with Cuba. 
B. Travel 
1. There is a concerted effort to conceal or 
obscure the amount of travel to Cuba, the identities 
of the travelers, and the length of their stay. Docu­
ments are falsified and such devices as detachable 
visas, circuitous travel, and some surreptitious bor­
der crossing are used. 
2. Since the October crisis, the only Western 
Hemisphere access to Cuba by scheduled airline has 
been through Mexico. Throughout the reporting period 
Mexican authorities have been photographing passports 
of travelers arriving from or leaving for Cuba, and 
relaying the information to interested OAS members.,· 
In some cases the travelers themselves have been pho­
tographed. 
3. Cuban embassies, however, have been issuing 
visas on separate sheets of paper to avoid any re­
cord of Cuban travel in the passport. In addition, 
since some passports are fraudulent 9 the Mexican re­
port of Cuban travel may neither reach the correct 
country nor permit identification. At this agency's 
suggestionp Mexican travel control authorities late 
in February began stamping passports to show arrival 
from or departure for Cuba. While this effectively 
counters the device of the detachable visa in the 
-2-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32283208 Page 6 
