87D 
(6) 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 
XIII. 
XIV. 
SECURITY INVESTIGATl-• 
Employment address and any additional data.deemed 
necessary to assist in locating a subject in an 
emergency. Labor union affiliation, if any. 
Field office file number 
(b) Data to appear on separate attached card 
I. The following data must be placed on a separate 
card to be attached to reverse side of the security.· 
index card·-being·filed in the geographical, ipecial, 
or unavailable sections O Data will not be .attached to 
the security index card filed in the alphabetical. 
sectiono These cards contain printed.captions to 
assist in recording the descriptive information. 
Captions are not all-inclusive and should be augmented 
by other data required. 
(A) Complete description ' 
(B) Notation that security index flash notice has been 
submitted for posting in Identification Division 
(C) Photograph, with date taken placed below. This 
photograph is to be the most curre~t or best 
likeness of subject. 
•. (D) Dangerous characteristics of subject, including 
notation if subject possesses firearms 
(E) Other data which will assist in effecting appre­
hension of subject, such as directions to residence 
or employment, where subject not situated in usual 
locations, listing 'of number of minor children 
and aged dependents 
II. If descriptive data have not been obtained, case must 
be kept pending and investigation conducted to de~elop 
this info,rmationo Upon posting of security index flash 
notices in security index cases, the field will be 
furnished the FBI number and fingerprint classification 
which should be affixed to reverse side of the security 
index cards filed in geographical, special,and unavail­
·able sections. 
IIIo Form FD-186 is used for purpose of compiling information 
to be posted on the separate card attached to back of 
the security index card filed in the geographical section 
of index. Form may be filled in by the Agent handling 
the case in legible handwriting and forwarded to clerical 
employee designated to post this information on the 
attachment to the geographical, special, or unavailable 
sections. After the securit~ index card has been pre-· 
pared at Bureau and sent to field and information appear~ 
ing on FD-186 has been posted on the card to be attached, 
it shall be filed in the investigative c~se file. • 
FD-186 may also be used to record information that a 
security index subject ha~ been physically observed. 
Descriptive data developed during observation of the 
subject should be noted on FD-186 for posting 0 
Arrangement of the security index 
(a) At Bureau 
The entire security index is maintained at the Bureau 
through the utilization of IBM tabulating cards .. The 
5- by 8-inch security index cards are printed·by automatic 
data processing and transmitted to the field. Through the 
use of this device, the security index can be broken down 
into the various categories of information appearing on 
the security index cards when such breakdowns become necessary 
for administrative purposes at the Bureau. This procedure 
.makes it possible to maintain the content of the security 
indnx in the field and at the Bureau in a~ identical con­
dit~on at all times. 
An alphabetical breakdown of the true names and all aliases 
of security index subjects is also maintained at the Bureau 
for administrative purposes. 
2056 
50 
4-11-69 
( 
( t i 
§ 
~ 
! 
t 
, 
' ! 
' E 
~ 
I 
l 
i t 
i 
I 
I Ii 
I ! • • t 
i .• . 
~ 
t 
i 
( I 
i; 
~ t 
I 
