l 
SECRET Betsy Palmer 
Volume Y:v - June 1964 
Page 2 
5. Memo for the Record, dtd 9 June 1964, from .Alfonso Rodreguez 
Subject: Possible Plans of Ray 
Opinion of Rodriguez that Ray will attempt asap to mount another infiltration 
effort. He is relatively certain JURE has or can procure a small craft 
capable of making trip from Florida to Cuba. He also thinks that JiiiJf ¢f_i,~rjf¢-/,/~f Ray "would be willing to publicly give the lie to the TIME 
magazine article of 12 June 1964. 
6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 10 June 1964 - re-canvassing of exile 
conmrunity reveals Ray's prestige at near-absolute low point. Trend is 
tendency to ignore Ray completely. Information that JURE in considerable 
dissension. 'Threats of various factions to withdraw unless Cisneros dismissed 
and national board reorganized. 
7. Memo for 
Subject: 
0"3 
Record, dtd 12 June 1964 from Samuel Halpern 
Information from the British in .a....~swer to Questions Re; 
Identify of .American Who Allegedly Paid Manuel Ray's fine in 
Nassau. 
@hris Phillpottsjcalled 12 June to say Gov. of Bahamas had replied to our 
query as to the identify of American who allegedly paid Ray's fine in Nassau. 
( see TIME of 12 June 1964, page 48 -- alleged CIA paid). Governor stated 
he had seen no such figure and to best ofu his knowl_,edge, there was no suc:::i 
person. "I of course did not tell [r.hris ~hillpott~ that we knew the identi "':,y 
of the ..American as reported to us by Rogelio Cisneros of JUP.E. !I 
8. Memo for Record, dtd 12 June 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez 
Subject: JURE telegram to TIME Magazine 
Protest falsity of information published by TTI.fE re: capture of Manuel Ray 
and his group. False that a CIA ship participated in any phase of operation. 
Also false that a CIA individual paid fine -- the $84.oo was sent to JURE 
by an .American citizen at request of one of his employees. 
9. Cable to DIR from JMr:lAVE, dtd 27 June 1964: According to .AMFAST/6, 
Ray informed Pepe Catillo (Jose Garcia Valdez) their de~arture date for CU.ba 
would be July 1. Boat to be used is unnamed Rybovi tch rented in Ft. Lauderdale. 
Ray planning to stay in Cuba about 15 days. 
1ot Memo for Record, dtd 29 June 1964, from Alfonso Rodriguez 
Subject: Establishment of Base Abroad; Manuel Ray Rivero 
On June 22, the Special Group a.greed "no monies would be forthcoming, 
specifically a requested 025,000, until he ceased" all activities from U.S. 
!Ila.inland. 
SECRET 
