( 
( 
( 
NW 38321 
[ 
s. 
SECTION 10. SECURITY INFORY.IA.1JT3 AND 
Correct, full name 
All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
First date of contact by your office 
SOURCES. 1071-M 
If first contact was prior to September, 1944, names of all 
SA.s, SA.Cs, and ASA.Cs who contacted and may have made payme-nts 
(5) Tabulation of all payments, broken down as to services and 
expenses. Although tabulations are not furnish~d to Depart­
ment, those prepared by your office will be reconciled with 
Bureau records. 
( 6} Listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balance_s of 
advances 
{7} Date of last contact by your office 
(8) Whether individual has been contacted by any other office 
b. Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. 
If no contact was made with particular indiyidual, Bureau must be 
so advised. 
c. Where informant has previously been used and tabulation of payments 
was prepared, information for items (5) through' (8} need be given only 
from date of last trial in which individual was used. 
d. Above infori:nation should be subr:i.i tted se·parate and a·part from cor­
respondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be ad-­
dressed to attention of[Data Processing]Section, Computer Systems 
Division. Interdivisional correspondence should be addressed to 
Bureau with copies designated for interested offices9 
Receipt of unemployment compensation 
a. At times informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
and become eligible for unemployment compensation. Where un­
employment regulations require listing of all sources of income as 
prerequisite for unemployment compensation and informants and/or 
sources who are being paid by Bureau fail to comply, situation is· 
potentially embarrassing. Bureau cannot be placed in position of 
condoning violation of state lan on part of any informant or source. 
Field office must determine from state unemployment compensation 
• officials effect of unemployment compensation laws on paid informants 
and/or sources. Depending on local requirements, informants and 
sources must be alerted accordingly. 
b. When paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has knowledge 
of impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and submit 
recow.mendations to Bureau on UACB basis. At same time, weigh seriously 
possible need for informant to apply and accept unempioyment compen­
sation to protect his security. Fellow members of subversive organi­
zation :may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect him 
to apply. Where state requires ~otification of Bureau payments i;o ·in­
formants that would necessitate disclosure of identity, discontinue 
Bureau payments during period of unemployment compensation benefits. 
M. MONTHLY A:HD QUARTERLY LETTERS 
1. Submit monthly letter (FD-451, 451a) to Bureau by secure teletype system 
(NITB1). Field divisions east of the Mississippi must submit this infor­
rrAtion by the 3rd of each month; field divisions west of the ~lississippi 
must submit this information by the 7th of each month. Monthly letter 
should include the following: 
a. Number of security informants, potential security informants, con­
fidential sources, and panel sources at the beginning and end of each 
·month also showing the number added and deleted during the month. 
b. Nu.~ber of Agents assigned exclusively to informant and source 
development. o 
c. Money paid for services and expenses under SAC authority. 
d. Statistical accomplishments. 
e. Security informant accomplis~ments. 
Page 1170 
17 
,i0-13-72 
