,l / • 
. . .. 
• 
-· 
St.:ite, (2) or which seek to overthrow the Government of 
United States, or any State or subdivision thereof, by 
unlawful TQCctns; (Emphasis adde~) . 
. . 
Of course, the key words which are underlined indicate 
that the investigation should be initially based on a possible 
violation of a federal (such as the Smith Act) or state statute 
prohibi tin·g unlawful advocacy or the qommission of any unlawful 
act of force or violence. Hm·1ever, in order for the Bureau to 
detect organi:~ations with a pote11tic1.l of the above nc:i.ture, it 
ls irmJortant that tJ~e invi'.:?sti·"J-cJ.tion proceed on the basis of in-- ,. 
formc:1. tion indicating ti1at. the otga.nizution may be of the nature 
mentioned. It is not necessar"y·that a crime occur before the 
investigation is initiated, but.only that a reasonable evaluation 
of the available information suggests that the activities of the 
organization may fall within the proscription of the Order. The 
most recent example of the type· of organization., 'that you have 
advised is becoming more prevalent, is the small but dedicated 
to violence, Symbionese Liberatiion Army (SLA) . Organizations. 0f 
thi£ r.2..-!:~=~ ·.;.:::,u.1'1 clect.r:i.y ia.LL .within the Order and should be 
investigated as soon as infoi-mation is available indicating their 
pctent:i.alit.y for violence and of course, if possible, prior to 
the fulfillment of their purposes. 
It is true that Executive Order 11785 eliminated the prior 
communist, totalitarian, f~scipt, and subversive characterizations 
and definitions, but there ·was no intenti_on of restricting the 
investigations of such organizations if their programs call for 
acts of force or violence or the unlawful advocacy of-the com-
.mission of acts of force or violence in furtherance of these 
programs. ' 
f 
It is not possible to set definite parameters covering the 
initiation of investigations of potential organi~ations falling 
Within the Order but once-·the • investi(Jation reaches a stage that 
offers a basis for determining that the activities are legal in 
nature, then the investiaation should cease, but if the investi­
gation suggests a,determination that the organization is engaged 
in illegal activities or potentially illegal activities it should 
continue. • 
' It follows in answer to · your second question that indi vid­
uals who.are active either as members of or as affiliates of 
Nt ~ Docld:329895118 Page 191 
2 
\t,ftt 
