87D 
[ 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 760 
"Out o:f th·~ Country," and "Ia,prisoned." The unavail­
able sect:i.on shu.11 lie rnaintainecl in acc:01·:lo.nce with 
th€:: follo1-.ing :i.n:.; t:J•uctio ns: 
(A) Misaing subjects 
(B) 
Security index subjects are not to be included in 
the unavail~blc ·section as missing im~ediately upon 
·de·l;ermination tha-L they are no lon;{er located at 
their previously known places of residence or 
employmento The ac·l;ion required in G7D Gb (3) 
above muot be taken prior to submitting FD-122 
placing a subject in the unavailable section as. 
a missing ~ubject. The Bureau must be periodically 
advised of the investigative steps t~ken to locate 
missing security index subjects in accordance with 
87D 6b ( 3) o 
If the subject is missing,the word "Missing" shall 
be typed in the space provided on J!'D...:l22 beh:i.nd the 
words 11MISCl!~LL.A.trnous (Specify). u 
Subjects out.of the country 
The securi·~_y index cards, of subjec·{!i'~11ho a.re fou:;d 
to have departed from the ·u. S. or Pu~rto Rico 
~or a. foreign country shall be placed in this 
subsection of the unavailable section of th~ 
security index unless their cards should.be can­
celled in accordance with instructions set for~h 
below under 87D -7b ( 10) ( b) o 
If the subject is out of the cou.ntry,the words 
"Out of the Country" shall be typed in the space 
provided on FD-122 behind the words 111:'lISCELL.t,.NECUS 
(Specify)." If the foreign address is kn~wn, 
place it on FD-122 in the space provid~d for ~he 
residence address. If the stibject is only known 
to be in a certain forei·gn country and his .residence 
there is not known oi is only known to be traveling 
abroad, include this information on FD-122. If the 
subject I s current employment abroad is known, 
include it" on FD-122. 
The case of any security index subject who is. out 
of the country must be followed a-t least each six 
month; for verification of thi subject's address, 
the sa,"Ile·as any other security index cc'..se, to deter-­
mine if the subject ~as returned t~ this country. 
"' Appropriate stops should be placed with the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service. 
to be- advised of information which may become 
. ,available to it indicating the subject's 
'return to this count.ry o • • • 
Imprisoned subjects 
The cards of security index subjects who are· found 
· to be· imprisoned shall be placed in the unav,,.'i.lable 
.section of the security index. 
If the subject is in prison,the word "Impiisoned" 
shall be typed ou the space provided on FD-122 
behind the words 11MISCli:LLA!rEOUS (Specify}• n The 
identity of the institution in which the subject 
is incarcerated shall be typed in the space pro­
vided for the residence addressc The space for 
the business address shall be left blank. 
54 
12-13-61 
( 
• .. 
