' ""', 
f
101 o-P SECTION 101. [INT.AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND coAENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] . 
14. Make every effort to prevent discontinued informant from becoming involved 
in situations which may prove embarrassing to informant or Government. 
Immediately after he testifies for first time, SAC should have serious talk 
with informant in presence of Agent who handled informant. This interview 
should be conducted in field office and informant told that: 
a~ Re will no longer be operated by Bureau 
b. Since he is public figure, he will probably be contacted by representa­
tives of press, radio, and television for interviews and appearances 
c. Re may be sought as witness by congressional committees, Immigration 
and Naturalization Service, and state authorities 
d. In.connection with sue~ interviews and-appearances, informant must 
continue to be factual and truthful and must not build up or embellish 
statements, for if he does so he will wind up in serious trouble 
Advise Bureau results of such interview and comment on its possible effec­
tiveness. 
Be alert to possibilities of former informant being contacted by represen­
tatives of publicity media and as witness by congressional committees, 
) 
INS, and state authorities. SAC is responsible for knowing when former informant 
is scheduled or is likely to appear at hearing or make public appearance 
of any kind. Prior thereto in each instance, former informant must be 
contacted and instructions above reiterated by Agent who handled i~formant. 
Emphasize to former informant that he must stick to truth and make certain 
he can back up what he says, and if there is any deviation he will be sub-
jected to criticism, possible libel, slander, or other criminal actions. 
If he inquires as to whether he should appear or testify or otherwise 
cooperate with any public or private individual or agency, advise him he 
must make that decision himself, but if he has appeared as Government 
witness in case which has not been finally adjudicated and decides in 
affirmative, he should contact USA for instructions. Advise Bureau of any 
such situations and results of any interviews conducted. 
15. When contacting Agent feels discontinued informant could cause embarrass-
ment to Bureau, make arrangements to have former informant come to field 
office where he will be personally met by SAC. At that time, he should be 
impressed with fact that his services were appreciated and .were of consid­
erable assistance to security of country and remind him that he si.gned agree­
ment when he was active as informant to maintain his relation with Bureau 
on confidential basis. SAC should stress necessity for informant to main­
tain this confidence. 
P. FURNISHING INFORMA.NTS TO IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE {INS) 
1. INS, in ◊rder to enforce its responsibilities, must obtain evidence to 
prove that certain aliens, due to their membership in certain groups, are 
undesirable and deportable or subject to denaturalization. 
2. Cooperate fully with INS in these cases and make efforts consistent with 
your own interests to make available information and witnesses where 
possible. 
3. If contacted by INS inquiring for informants and you have discontinued 
informant or one who would be of assistance to INS and whose loss would not 
affect your work, furnish his identity to Bureau, together with your 
~ecommendation. 
4. Bureau will review facts and advise as to whether or not his identity may 
be disclosed to INS. 
5. Before any informant is turned over to INS, obtain his permission. 
. 20 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1178 \ 
' 
) 
) 
' ! 
l 
~ 
; 
;. 
' 
i t 
~ 
J 
; 
! 
i t 
f 
