13-00000 
Subject: 
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY 
House Government Operations Committee Hearing on 
H.J. Res. 454 (JFK Materials Resolution) 
He mentioned Oswald's alleged ties to naval intelligence, 
and also said that a closer look should be taken at an 
operation nMONGOOSE• and a Colonel Landsdale. He also 
posited a bigger •cover-up• conspiracy after the fact, 
spearheaded by President Johnson (who Stone alleged told 
Earl Warren he would be responsible for World War III if the 
Commission tied the Cubans into a conspiracy). Stone 
theorized that a much broader •Establishment•, while not 
directly involved in the assassination, was not sorry to see 
Kennedy go be~ause he was an agent of profound change 
embarking upon several courses that disturbed that • 
nEstablishmentn, including pulling out of Vietnam. In 
response to a later question about various theories, Stone 
called the Mafia theory a •red-herring.• Stone said •as you 
know, the CIA has always used the Mafia for plausible 
deniability• and that it was important to look behind the 
Mafia at •who pulls the strings.• 
7. Other matters of Agency interest discussed include 
that both the Warren Corranission attorney and particularly 
the Church Committee attorney castigated CIA for •lying• to 
the Warren Commission. The particular example offered had 
to do with •AMLASH.• This individual came up in connection 
with traces the Agency apparently conducted for the Warren 
Commission. CIA purportedly had a relationship with AMLASH 
in connection with a··castro assassination plot, but did not 
make this fact known to the Warren Commission. The 
witnesses characterized this as pertinent information CIA 
consciously withheld from the Warren Commission. Also, when 
the final panel engaged in a broader discussion of 
government disclosure and FOIA with the·subcommittee, the 
ACLU held up the CIA Openness Task Fore~ report as an 
example of why FOIA was a •dismal failure• as the mechanism 
to "vindicate t public's right to know.• (On 18 March 
Conyers rigorously questioned Gary Foster on the task force 
report when his subcorranittee held a hearing on •Government 
Secrecy After the Cold War.•) 
8. A major recurring theme was concern that, despite 
the need to make the documents publicly available, the 
Administration would not support the resolution and it could 
be vetoed. Congressman Hamilton stated that, if the 
resolution were vetoed, he hoped that at minimum the House 
would pass a resolution to release its own records. (Such 
an action would be problematic fo~ the Administration, 
because much Executive branch information is contained in 
House records, and the House also probably considers 
documents obtained from Executive agencies as part of its 
3 
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY 
