13-q....,oi------.--..... -.APR .... - ,-. -1-s-.-,9-7_04_:_SSPM_...,..USGOVERNMENT_ ----- ---- -SECRET 
_,,, . 
P.3/14 
Subject: CIA Employees 
protect national security information and the Review Board• a ,l 
duty to inform the public about the JFK assassination in a • 
timely and accurate fashion. The task of locating and 
informing hundreds of _former employees scattered all over 
the country and the world.has·been a formidable one. Some 
employees have conta·cted us to report their concerns about a 
•suspicious• letter purporting to·be from CIA which they had 
received. It·would not be surprising, therefore, if many 
former employees ignored the letter for.similar reasons, 
even though they might have legitimate needs to protect 
their identities. 
4. (U) Contacting every named employee and collecting 
information on each of them to present to the Review Board 
will clearly ·take more time and effort than any of us had 
anticipated. This will· have obvious ramifications for ho¥ 
and when- the Review Board releases information to the • 
public. More importantly. the decision to publicly 
acknowledge employees who may have been living for over 30 
years under cover is a critical one that should be made not 
by default, but rather by careful planning and 
consideration. 
5. (U) Relevant .to this discussion is the fact that 
the Review Board and CIA have recently agreed upon a policy 
for releasing true names of sources of intelligence 
information-. It was agreed at that time that there would be 
a presump~ion of protecting source names; but in cases where 
a source was particularly important·to the JFK story and 
there_ ,was no overriding national security interest,· the name 
would·:_be released. Although the CIA recognizes that there 
are some sensitivities invalved with sources that do not 
apply to covert employees·, there are also many legal and 
operational similarities, which are described herein, that 
justify similar treatment by the Review Board. As is 
further detailed in Section IV, CIA, therefore, proposes 
that the Review Board adopt a general policy of protecting 
employee names that appear in ___ t.he_ Collection,. with. . . . 
exceptions for those individuals whom the Board believes are 
important to the JFK story. 
XX, Legal Considerations 
6. (U) As both covel'.'t CIA employees and clandestine 
reporting assets are types of "human sources" of 
intelligence, many of the same laws apply. Although Section 
il(a) of the JFK Act provides that, when the Act requires 
release of information, it takes precedence over all other 
laws that would otherwise prohibit release, there are strong 
governmental national security interests in protecting the 
true names of CIA employees. CIA believes that it is 
2 
SECRET 
