[ 
t 
\ 
) 
SECTION 107. [IN.AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CaiDENTIAL 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
SOURCES; 107F 
d. Flash notice is to be placed by field with Identification Division 
by submission of form FD-165, using informant's true name for each 
informant who has fingerprints on file. 
e. When informant is discontinued, retain flash notice for one year. 
Insure that notice is canceled at that time by submission of form 
FD-165 or advise Bureau as to why notice should be continued. If 
fingerprints obtained solely for this purpose, remove fingerprints 
from criminal file. 
7. Control - statement of cooperation 
a. Close control must be exercised over activities of informants to 
obtain maximum results and prevent any possible embarrassment to 
Bureau. 
b. Obtain signed statement set out below when feasible and practical. 
Where it is not practical to secure such signed statement from an 
informant, advise Bureau of complete details. SAC and Agent handling 
informant should determine appropriate time in informant's operation 
when statement should be completed. 
~, ___________ ,have voluntarily agreed to cooperate with the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation in a matter affecting the 
security of the United States. I consider it a patriotic 
duty to so cooperate and agree to maintain this relation­
ship in strict confidence. I und~rstand that I am not a· 
Federal employee and will not represent myself as such. I 
further agree not to make any disclosure or exploit in any 
way information which I may obtain or any activity in which 
I may engage on behalf of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
both while I am actively associated with the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and thereafter, unless authorized to do so by 
the Bureau. 
{Signed) 
Witnessed: 
8. Execution of party questionnaires 
Informants, particularly in Communist Party, -often must execute party 
questionnaires and in doing so should be instructed to be extremely 
careful not to jeoparidze their position as informants. If necessary, 
each item in questionnaire should be discussed with informant. 
9. Informant's activity in organizations 
a. Informants in organizations must be impressed with .necessity of 
carrying on normal activity, such as canvassing, sale, and dis­
tribution of literature, leaflets, etc., 
bo When feasible, informants should be instructed to accept direction 
from leaders; request instruction and interpretation of organiza­
tion's precepts; request leaders to furnish sources for study 
purposes; and enter discussions, not quietly sit back as observers. 
c. Changes in organization's conduct, policy, or strategy should be 
reported on as they occur. Have informants give their opinions of 
motivation behind such changes, but be certain opinions are labeled 
as such. 
d. Informants must be encouraged to increase contacts within their orbit 
in order to gain higher positions, but. in such manner as to avoid 
suspicion. 
7 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1141 
