I
·. ,.:.m;_, • " 
.. ~, 
·:Re: Black Panther Party 
Detroit Division 
MN! IFFNTIPI 1 
The panelists were introduced by the moderator 
Lonnie Peeks with the following titles: 
Luke Tripp - Deputy Minister of Information 
Leonard Brown - Deputy Minister of Education 
Victor Stewart - Deputy Chairman 
Marian Kramer - No title 
Luke Tripp stated that the Black Panther Party is 
not a party that adheres to violence b11t is geared towards 
political education for the black people. Tripp stated that 
the Black Panther Party is running Eldridge Cleaver, leader 
of the BPP in San Francisco, California, for the presidency 
,, 
of the United States-in Michigan. Cleaver is being sponsored 
by the New Politics Party. Tripp stated that· the BPP is not 
interested in seeking or getting·• votes, rather it is concerned 
with presenting its program for revolution to the Araerican 
people. Tripp stated that social turmoil as manifested by 
George Wallace, youth rebellions and riots in the streets, 
can be blamed on power being in the hands of the establishment 
and not in the hands of the people where it belongs. Tripp 
stated that the black economic, political and social condition 
as opposed to the condition of the whites is far below normal. 
The system has as its basis a cast system based on race. It 
is the relationship of the oppressor and the oppressed, superior 
to the inferior. Tripp stated that socially the black man 
is unable to control his destinyo School, police and welfare 
are all in the hands of the white people and the black people 
must_grasp for what is left. 
Tripp·· further stated the BPP has a ten point progra'l!l 
t-'1.at is geared towards elevating the black people out of the 
slums. He further stated that the BPP in the Detroit area is 
in the process of organizing a party and at this point has no 
definite meeting place or date. However, any persons interested 
in assisting the organization of the BPP in the Detroit area 
may do so by contacting Luke Tripp or Leonard Brown. 
p@SH! iPENTIDia 
2 -,. 
NW 38296 Docld:32989574 Page 2~ 
I
'.: 
~ ,,, 
'. ; . 
~- " 
,, ! 1 
.. 
. . 
'~ i~ 
l
fa 
<, , 
. 
' 
J 
I 
I!' 
