.•. I 
I. 
.. , 
' ', 
February 8, 1960 
SEIZURE POWERS IN Nb1m0~ .. LITI CASES 
• The Department has been attempting to have 
issued an Executive Ord~r which would give us power 
under· Title 22, Section 401, United States Code, to. 
seize arms, munitions of war·and other articles about 
to be exported in violation of law and follow through 
to final conclusion in the investigation of neutrality 
cases. T11c Department advised on Dece11ber 23, 1959, 
) 
that. the proposed li."<ecutive Order had been sent by the 
.Attorney General to the fresident through the director 
of the Bureau of the Budget by letter dated December 16, • 1959. 
Pursuant to our inquiries,.the Department 
detennined that the proposed Executive Order had been 
sent by the Bureau of the Budget to the Defense, Corunerce 
and State Departments and to the Office of Civil and 
Defense f~bilization. It had been previously cleared with 
. Treasury by the Depa_rtment. This matter has been closely 
followed with the Departinent and on February 3, 1960, we • 
ascertained that the Budget Bureau has received replies 
from all these agencies offering no objection to the 
issuance of the Order. Conwerce, however, in its letter . 
• to the· Budget Bureau on February 1, 1960, a copy of which 
)
was furnished us by the Department_ on February 3, 1960, 
asked for assurances from·the Department and the FBI.that· 
we understood Commerce has jurisdiction under the Export 
Control Act of 1949 and would keep the Co1mnerce Department 
_ advised of any information developed of interest to that 
- agency. 
- ' 
• A letter was sent to the Department-on February 5, 
l
.1960, suggesting that the Department setfd Commerce a . • 
letter similar to the one it previously furnished Treasury 
. assuring that these seizure powers would be used only in. 
neutrality cases and that, of course, the FBI would · 
furnish Con~crce any pertinent infonnation developed. 
l 
It is ~ssumed that upon the receipt of that lette!' by_ 
Cf?mmerce the matter will then be cleared for the 1:res1dent's 
signature. 
·,. 
i 
