WFO 105-8906 
of disloyalty. It would appear that this may be a 
/ propitious time to interview JAFFE in an effort to com­
pletely debrief him concerning his contacts with Soviets 
during his tour in Moscow and in Hong Kong, as well as 
concerning his recent contacts with Soviets in Washington, 
D.C. -(-
If the Bureau approves interview with JAFFE, 
it is contemplated that he will be advised that WFO Agents 
desire to renew.contacts with him previously initiated by 
New York _Agents. He will be invited to the Washington 
Field·Office to discuss in some detail his tour of duty 
in Moscow and his contacts with Soviets since his return 
to this country. It will be pointed out that WFO desires 
to display to him a large number of photographs of Soviets 
in this country and in Russia to obtain ~is C<?Jlllllents. If 
JAFFE. agrees, he will first be requested to describe in 
detail his activities in Moscow and in particular, his 
contacts with the ~GB subsequent to those reported in 
January; 1963. He will ai,so be asked if he had any con­
tacts with Soviets while in Hong Kong and if so, to de-· 
scribe th~m. Thereafter, he will be requested to describe 
'in detail his ~ontacts with Soviets since his return to 
- this country. During the course of the interview, he will 
be shown photographs of KGB officers assigned to the Second 
Chief Directorate in Moscow, as well as photographs of 
Soviets currently assigned to Washington, D.C. Also during 
the course of the interview, it is contemplated that he will 
be informed that a Soviet defector has advised that he 
furnished information to KGB officer KUSKOV, and he will be 
requested to specify_ what information he furnished. In 
particular, he will be questioned concerning the two_ groups 
of Am~ricans who visited with KHRUSHCHEV, concerning which 
he made reports to KGB. Every effort will be made to 
obtain accurate information from JAFFE as a means of 
assessing his potential. If it appears that he is not 
candid, it is believed that no further consideration should 
be given .to utilizing him as an active source, but infor~ 
mation volunteered by him should be accepted. Also if he 
4 
, NW 3832:ti Docld:32989104 Page 352 
' .l 
~ 
j 
l i 
l 
l ! 
i 
·j 
f 
. I 
l 
j 
I 
