( 
( 
[ 
[ 
• • SECTION 107. SECU'lITY INFOR11A.NTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES. l07S-T 
b. If no pertinent derogatory information is developed, in:i.tial contact 
may be made with prospective panel source to ascertain cooperative­
ness; however, in regard to individuals associated with 'educational 
institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning inves.ti­
gations on campuses. 
c. Submit letter to Bureau requesting authority to use individual as a 
panel source and set out: 
(1) Results of background investigation and data as to date and 
place of birth, citizenship status if foreign born, residence 
and employment addresses • 
(2) Details of expected area of activity of individual as·panel 
source and results of any inte-rv:i,.ews conducted with him 
(3) Statement to effect subject is being considered panel source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confi­
dential nature of his relationship with Bureau. Also, state­
ment should be made that you will be alert ·to be certain sub­
ject -is not a plant and, if co~nected with labor union or 
educational institution, he wi 11 be advised of Bureau policy 
on such w.atters. 
(4) One copy of letter should consist only of first page. If 
approved at Bureau, stamped notation indicating Bureau approval 
will -be placed on single-page copy and it will be returned to 
field. 
3. Administrative handling 
a. Follow same procedure in handling, processing, and reporting data and 
material furnished by panel sources as afforded security informants. 
b. Randle payments for legitimate expenses incurred and services rertd·ered 
in same manner as security informants. Gifts should not be given to 
panel sources. 
c. Open 134 file when active investigation of prospective panel source 
initiated. Close file administratively if panelist is not contacted 
regularly. Note contacts with panelists in their respective files. 
d. Only .A.gents designated in particular case should conta.ct panelists. 
e. Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments to panel source. If source not paid on Bureau authorization, 
.A.gent handling prepare memorandum to SAC for file contaj_ning certi­
fication as to stability and reliability. 
f. (.A. symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is taken 
to develop an individual as a panel source.) Use abbreviation "PS" 
before symbol number, e.g., PS ~7-000--S. 
g. De signa.te, where practicable, coordinating .A.gent to maintain current 
roster of panel sources and scheduled organization ·activities, who • 
will notify Agents handling individual panelists of organizational 
functions to be covered. Coordinating .A.gent should receive notice of 
coming events from .A.gents handling organizations, informants, and 
publications. 
h. Advise Bureau of date panel source is discontinued _and reasons. 
T. DO"UBLE .A.GEN"T OPERATIONS 
1. Passage of information 
a. In double agent operations information requested by principals is 
frequently passed either to build up double agent's stature or as 
evidence of espionage activity. 
b. Each case must be carefully evaluated to make certain that net 
gain accrues to U. s. 
c. Information passed should be carefully handled and logicaI explana­
tions created for its acquisition by double agent. 
2. Locating inforw2tion to pass 
Where possible field office handling double agent should locate appropriate 
information; however, Bureau can assist in fulfilling requests for infor­
mation in possession of other Government agencies. 
3. Obtaining Bureau authority 
Bureau authority must be obtained to pass any information in double 
agent operation except: 
a. 1'Tewspaper or magazine article 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1109 
23 
9-13-71 
