• 
UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY OOVERW.JmttAL OPEMTIONS 
WlTH RESPECT TO llll'BLL!GENCE ACTIVITIES 
To the question as to what problems have boen 
experienced by ?.b?.. Crescioli with the Postal Servico since 
nssuming hie role o:f Liaison Of£icer~ Mr,. Crcsciol.i rospondod 
that cooperation with tho Postal Servico has been oxcollont 
and no real problems have been encountered. Ur. Crescioli 
explained that he- has visited the Postal Inspection Service 
on the average of -once every two weolm since November, 1974. 
He nddod that on occaoion ho will be tolophonod by nn official 
of tho Inspection Service with a question .regarding n national 
security mail cover requested by the FBI-,. a -question .regai .. d.ing 
tmining procedures or a question ronardine hand1ing of 
Freedom of Information Act roq_ucsts. ln his liaison capacity., 
Mr. Creseioli would initiate the necessary arrangements to 
have these questions resolved and the answor returned to the 
Postal Inspection S.orvice. In this sumo area of conve1~sation,: 
Mr« Wallach asked Mr. Crescioli if he ever visited the Postal 
Inspection Service to- meroly "chat•' with tho Postnl Inspectors. 
tlr., Crescioli responded that because of hi.c; heavy liaison 
resp0nsit·ilitios with agencies other than tho Postal Service 
he did not have title to visit tho Postal Service £or othor 
than official reasons. 
When asked if the various FBI field offices h~va 
liaison ropresenttttivos with tho various r~gional Postal 
Inspectors in Charge. Mr. Crescioli responded that•with 
regard to national security ma~l covers, the Special Agent 
in Charge of the local FBI office is the designated Buronu 
liniSon contact with tho Rogionnl Postal Inspector in Chnrgc. 
The abova Staff Members wero interested in ascertaining 
whether or not national security mail cover checks were routed 
through Ur. Crescioli prior to dolivory to tho Chief Fostnl 
Inspector. Mr. Crescioli responded that these rilllil cover 
requests are not routed through him for review but rather nre 
routed through norraal Du.reau channels prior to delivery by 
Courier Service to the Chio:[ Pontnl InDvcctor. 
-3-
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989£27 Page 103 
