SECRET 
have a close association ,.,.i th Pennington Hi thout: elaborating 
as to specific details.· For example: On March 1967, Wiley 
prepared a report which states as follows - "In pealing with 
Don (Sweaney) and.Lee (Pennington), both of whom_ know of my 
connection, I avoid any talk of my company activities. • 
At one time, both knew some of my work because we received 
cooperation from them on certain projects. However, since 
Don went to his present job there has been little contact. 
I talk to Don as I do to everyone else. I ignore any 
questions or statements with double meanings, surreptitious 
glances, etc. This is because of two reasons - need-to-know 
rule and Don is seldom out of earshot of fellow workers. No 
one overhearing us will learn anything I don't want them to 
know. 
"Since the recent exposure of company activities is 
the chief topic of discussion, and especially since I am 
considered by many as an 'expert' on one of the projects, 
there is little way of avoiding the subject without arousing 
suspicion. I have always taken the same stand, that of a 
critic - but with qualifications - regarding the area of 
my knowledge. Under the circumstances, it would be quite 
imp0s.sitl0 to -.:..:tc 2.r-.:,· c:hi::- pos:i.tio!1., 
"During my discussion with Don, the only company 
business that was mentioned was the project with which 
everyone knows I am familiar. It is, therefore, obvious 
that I could not have said what was reported. I would 
suggest that someone other than the original source talk 
to Don. I would also urge that both Don and Lee be reminded 
not to mention, under any circumstances, their knowledge of 
me." 
DONALD SWEANY 
Wiley's knowledge of and association with Sweany is 
not fully known from the Wiley files, nor is there any 
reference to any such association in the Office of Security 
file on Donald Sweany. However, it can be presumed, based 
upon their mutual association with Lee Pennington at the 
American Legion, that they probably have known each other 
SEP i30 L<JlS 
C tA. ,.I - . "' 
NW 50955 Docid:32203889 Page 101 
