. A. ·:iosca tc- Mr. Belmont Memo 
RE: PHESIDENT 'S CO~!MISSION 
. The Commission in questioning ~ellcrman made specific 
'reference to the underscored portions of the above paragraph 
as it contradicts some of Kellcrman's testimony. Kellerman 
j 
claims he did not J1car the President nor ~.!rs. Kennedy say 
these things and had never told our Agents that he had. In 
part of Kellcrman's denial he stated "I ~on't know where they 
got those quotes." • 
OBSZUVATIONS:. 
Kellerman is claiming our· Agents furnished inaccurate 
accounts of a conversation with him. It is to be remembered 
that at the ti~e this conversation with our Agents reportedly 
took place 11-22-63, Kellerman had been a security guard in 
tho President's car and more than likely was upset and feeling 
1·emorsc over the days episode. In his tcatimony before the 
Commission h~cndcavorcd to give the i~prcssion that he'actcd 
• calmly and immediately took command, issuj_ng logical instructions 
after the Prcsidcfot was hit. The conversn. tion reported by 
our Agents maae it appear Kellerman reacted normally to the 
tra~cdy and not dramatically as indicated in his testimony, 
as he didn't order the driver tott16 hospital until after tho 
President had sb directed. 
It is felt our Agents reported accurately what 
I 
Kellerman told them on 11-22-"63, and that Kellerman' s testimony 
3} months later is the result of considered deliberation, on 
his part, to paint the most favorable picture possible, under 
the circumstances, for the Secret Service. 
Consideration has b~en aiven to discussing this matter 
l 
with Chief Rowley of Secret Service, however, since it is the 
word of our Agents against Kellerman's, it is not felt any good 
purpose would be served by this course of action. 
RECOW,ill!IDATION: 
Affidavits are being obtained from our Jgcnts Sibert 
and O'No,J..ll attestinr, to the accuracy of their report and 
refuting Kellerman so that we will be in a position to show 
any future inquirer that we recognized this contradiction and 
did ,SDmcthing about it. • 
•• -• ,,r I 
,f f • I,, ,) ( 
'/) u··' • f'f 
·(,l I If"' \) t/ I f I f." • 
( ( f).i ti' ,,r· qf·~ 
v 'l' • • '• \ ~ 
If Ip I 1 
,~ ;"··c1· 1 
I .o. V ,. 
;! 'l 
:. i 
R1 
F ti l 
mt 50955 ' Docld.-: 32423630 Page , 418 • 
-2-
-
-
-
-I 
