- 2 -
With respect to assassination, 
just think it is wrong. And I 
very clear: ·to my subordinates. 
my positinn is clear. I 
have said so and made it 
(5/21/7 5, p. 89) 
Colby's ·predecessor, Helms, although himself involved in an earlier plot, 
·said he had concluded assassination should be· ruled out fnr both moral and 
Practi~al reasons: 
11.s a result of my experiences through the years, when I be­
came Director I had made up my mind that th1s· option ... of 
killinr, foreign leaders, was something that I did not vane 
to happen. on my watch. 'My reasons for this were these: 
There are ·not· only~inoral reasons but therle•are also 
some otlier· rather pi-actical reasonso 
It is almost impossible in a democracy to keep any­
thing like· that se.cret.... Som7body would .P,o to a Con­
gressman, his Senator, he might go to a newspaper man, what­
ever the case may be, but it just is not a. practical alterna~ 
tive, it seems to me, ip our so·ciety. 
h h • h "d I • 'f . T en t ere 1.s anot er cons1 era,tion .. ·.1. you are going 
to try by this kind of means to rem~ve a foreiP,n leader, 
then ;.,ho is going to. take his placej running that country, 
and are you essentially better off as a matter of practice 
when it is ·over than you were befor 1e? And I can give you I 
think a very solid example of this \.hich happened ·in Vietnam 
when President Diem was eliminated 'from the scene. HP. then 
had a revolvirig door of prime ministers· after that for quite. 
some period_of tiem, during which the Vietnamese Government 
at a time in its history when it should have been strong was 
nothing but a caretaker government .... In other 
words, that whole exercise tllrned out to the disadvantage of 
the United States, • 
... there is no sen~e in my sitting here with all the ex­
perience I have had and not sharing with the Committee my 
feelings this day. It isn't because I have lost my cool, 
or because I have lost my:guts, it ·si1~pty is because I don't 
think it is a viable option in the United States of America these 
days. 
Cl1ainnan Church. Doesn't it a.lso• follow, M_r. l!clrn:~ -- I' 
agree with what you have said fully --· but doesn't it 
also follow on· the practical side, apart from the moral side, 
that since these secrets are bound to come out, when they do, 
they do very grave political damage to the United States in 
the world at large? I don't know to what extent the Russians 
mf -:50955 D"ITT:!Tlt:·3~423525 Pag~ 2-0..----
