'' 
I 
' I 
i 
:L_ __ _ 
NW 
. '1 
STATUS OF JOHN GEORGE LEDES; 
JOSEPH ABRAMS 
FRAUD AGAINST THE GOVERNr1IBNT -
CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
February 8, 1960 
• , This case was referred to us by the Attorney General 
. on·l2-31-59. It relates to the association between Ledes, a 
I 
former legal adviser to Securities and ~xchange Commission (SEC) 
Commissioner James c. Sargent and Abrams, a _New York promoter of 
unsavory reputation. Ledes resigned from Reynolds· and Company, 
New.York brokers, on l-?8-60. 
We have reviewed voluminous SEC file$ throughout 
the country and have interviewed numerous persons in and out 
of SEC who handled cases involving Abrams' firms. ~e determined 
that Ledes endeavored to-assist Abrams in several SEC matters 
while Ledes was still with that agency. Abrams made loans to 
Ledes relative to financing properties purchased by Ledes. These 
loans may constitute payment of compensation to Ledes and thus 
bring their relationship within the scope of Conflict of Interest 
Statutes·. 
. 
SEC Cornm.issioner Sargent, who originally denied knowledge 
as to any connection between Ledes and Abrams, has since improved 
his memory considerably and now feels he_ may have been taken 
advantage of by Ledes. Sargent finally furnished a sig~1ed state­
ment as to his recollection of these matters on 2-5-60. Sargent 
told us that Ledes had been in touch with Tony Russo who had 
arranged for former A ttorne;(' General Bro,-.;nell to talk to Attorney 
General Rogers in July, 1950, about Sargent's ambitionat the time 
to become u. s. Attorney for the Southern District of New Yorke 
1-/e have been told that both Ledes and Abrams were as-sociated with 
Russo, ex-confidential assistant to Brownello Russo has not been 
alleged to be involved in any irregularities in this matter. 
\ 
Arrangements are now being made \o interview subject 
Ledes in New York City. Arrangements are also beirig made to 
interview subject Abrams who is serving a 30-month sentence on 
Fraud Against the Government charges, as well as Abrams• uncle, 
Charles GOY.don. These interviews, and subsequent re cord checks 
to verify information furnished by the subjects, will complete 
the investigation. 
I ,, ' 
\ . ~ 
r~ . . • -,;:.t, 
l 
{'' 
