" . 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
r 
[ 
[ 
}' 
107. SECURITY INl<'OR11AJ{TS AND SOURCJIJS 107N 
r. If the informant rficeives from outside employmen·!; less tha11 $4800, 
all of which is subject to Social Security tax, tho amount on which 
h~ will have to report for Social Security tax purposes, if ho com­
pletes a schedule c, is the difference between the amount received 
from regular employment and $4800, 
g. If informant c,·mple·!;es a schedule C, the nature. of business of the 
self-employt!d r•mst be stated and informant::: should be instructed to 
use Rs the nature of self-employment any applioable occupation with­
out reveRling connection with the Bureau. 
7. Stipulation re payments made to witnesses 
a, In trials in which informants, former informants, or other persons who 
were paid sums of money are prospective witnesses, tho Bureau must 
furnish the Department[a set of Photostats of the origin~). receipts 
signed by the prospective witnesses. The original receipts and a set 
of Photostats will be transmitted to the field office in whoso 
territory the trial will take place.) The office handling prosecution 
must dote:rmine from the[Governrnent) attorney which indiv:i.duals ti.re 
to bi used as witnesses. Thereafter the office should furnish and/or 
cause o·ther appropriate offices to furnish to the Bureau" the follow-
inf information: 
l
l The. correct, full name 
2 All alias es, cocle names, and symbol numbers 
3 The first date of contact by your office 
4 If first contact was prior to September, 1944, the names of all 
SAs, SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made payme-n·ts 
(5) A tabulation of all payments, broken down as to the amount appli­
cable to services and the amount applicable to expenses. 
[Although tabulations are not furnished to th& Department, those 
prepared by your of·fice will be reconciled with Bureau records.] 
(6) A listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
advances 
(-
8
7) The date of last contact by your office 
( } Whether the ina.i vidual has been contacted by any othe:r- office 
b 0 Each indiYidual and each item of information must be accounted for. 
If no contact was ci1ac.e wi·th a particular individual, the Bureau must 
be so advisedo 
c0 Where an informant has previously bee~ used and a tabulation of pay­
ments was prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be given 
only from the date of the last trial from which tho individual was 
used• 
d. The above information should be ~ubmitted separate and apart from 
corresponclence setting forth derogatory information, ~.ncl should be 
addressed to the attention of the Administrative Division, Voucher 
Urd. t • Interdi vi sional correspondence should be addressed to the 
Bureau with copies designated for the interested offices. 
8. Receipt of unemployment compensation 
a. At times security in£ormants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
with private industry due to strikes, economic conditions, or similar 
circumstances. As a result they become eligible for unemployment 
oompen~:•.~ion. Where unemployment regulations require listing of all 
source:,· of income as <", prerequisite far obtaining 'l.memp} :--yment 
compenst-.-tion .and security informan"ts and/or sources who ·.,.t the time 
are being paid by the Bureau for services re:n_dered fail to comply, 
the situation is potentially embarrassing. '.i.'he Bureau cannot be 
placed in the position of condoning a violation of the state law on 
the part of any informant or source. Each field office must determine 
from state unemployment compensation officials effect of unemploy:nent 
compensation laws on paid informants and/or sources. Depending on 
local requirements, informants and sources must be ale~ted accordi~dlv. 
b. Whenever a paid informant and/or• source becomes unemployed or has ~ • 
knowledge of impending unemployme:i.t, discuss all facts with him and 
submit observations ani recor:unendations to Bureau. Unless advised 
to the contrary by the Bureau, follow recommended action. Each 
office must assume the responsibility of guarding against informa~t•s 
accepting a Bureau payment that would conflict with unemployment 
compensation lawso At the same time, weigh seriously the possible 
need for an informant to apply and accept ~nemploymen~ compensatiqn to 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1431 21 
I 
I I 
i 
! ! 1 
! 
I 
1 
