13-00000 
,..··· 
' '• 
Hoke MAY was granted a Covert Security Approval in April 1958 
for unwitting use by Project FJilIDULGE. MAY was not to be directly . 
employed by FJINDULGE but was to be used in connection with his 
position with a pribvate firm which handled.work for the Project •. 
~e letter was presumably.written to a "Mr.WEISS" in CIA and reterred 
to classified DOUBLE~ activities in 1961 in which NOVEL claimed 
h~ was involved~ This mat~r was reviewed by. CI/R&A at the time .the 
matter received publicity ~d it was deterniined that DOUBLE-cHEK 
_was created by the Agency for the sole purpose of making payments to 
the widows of American flyers who participated in the· Bay of Pigs. 
No connection· with NOVEL • could be established. NOVEL knew Sergio 
ARCACHA~SMITH who was New Orleans head of the Frente Revolucionario .. _ 
Democratico_, · an Agency cre~ted and supported anti-Castro organization. 
-Al though ARCACHA-SMITH had rio Agency clearance, NOVEL could have gained , 
an impression from him that he was employed by. CIA . 
. In _October 1967 NOVEL was.granted immunity from anest by GARRISON 
on the Houma Bunker burglary charge and returned to Louisiana to 
testify before the East Baton Rouge 'Par·ish :Grand Jury in their probe 
on crime and labor troubles in the State of Louisiana. --- - . . 
DEl'AILS: 
The Agency had no connection with the Houma Munitions Bunker. 
However,·an Agency training site was located at Belle.Chasse,.Louisiana 
and Colonel Thomas BURBANK, State of Louisiana Police Superintendent,-was· 
one of the Louisiana officials witting of Agency affiliation with 
. ...,Belle Chasse •. It is noted ·from news items concerning, NOVEL' s testimony 
before the Louisiana Labor probers in-October 1967,.that Colonel BURBANK 
was also a witness at·the same time, although; there is no mention that 
BURBANK and NOVEL knew each other. BURBANK testified that every Louisiana 
sheriff was notified to "clean up" gambling and other vice in Louisiana. 
i r I .. 
I I 
