• -:1_..... , 
. • • • , sF i 4 - 2 o 1 ,· • ... et.~ , ·. r . . 
fore(· ;u,d put all polilical opi) .cion---Communist and anti-C~ nunist---in ~1il. 7,r 1959 
iL w;,:-; clc·ar that thc:re: weren't 6oin~: to be an:,· elections, and the f:Uerill:1s known as the 
1/ic:l Con;:. l>el:an tr, fi;:ht b.1.ck. n:,· 19G3 our ~o\·e.rrnnenl_.was fed t:p with Diem, but still 
wa:..;n'l will in;: to risl: elections. 0Jr CL\ helped a group of \~ictnamcsc generals to o\·er­
lhr,,w Dic111 and kill him. Since then there have lx?cn a sp_rics of "better" military 
dicr:11,,rs. General Ky---the man who: admjrcs Hitler---is the latest one. 
r,-I(;i:'l'Il :G FOi'l DErvlOCRACY 
Your job as a soldier is supposed to be ''to win the peopl,~ of South Vietnam." Win 
tlH.'m to what? Not democracy. We keep democracy for ourselves---they get·, rnilit.1ry 
dictators. What then? The American way of liie ? But why should they care :1 riy more 
. abnut that than we. care about the Vietnamese way of life? W 1e can't speak their. language 
or even pronounce their names. We don't know anything about theiJ religion or even what 
• it is. We never even heard of Vietnam until Washington dec:E.ded to run it. . 
You are supposed to· be fighting to "save the Vietnamese· people from Communism . .,·_ 
.Certainly Communist influence is very strong in the Nationali. Liberation Front, the rebel 
government. Yet most of the people support the NLF. Why;? Many of the same people· 
wh6 now lead the NLF led the Vietnamese independence movement against the Japanese 
during World War Il and then went on to fight against French colonial rule. Most Vietname: 
think of the NLF leaders as their country's outstanding patriots. In fact, many anti­
Communists have joined the guerilla forces in the belief that the most important thing is 
• tu get rid of foreign domination and military dictators. On the other hand, _very few 
Vietnamese support the official government of General Ky. His army has low morale and 
• a high desertion rate. 
THE TOUGH GUERILLAS 
The newspapers and television have told us again and agian what a brave, tough fighter 
_ the Vietnamese guerilla is. Short of ammunition and without any air cover, he·. can beat 
• forces that outnumber him five or ten to one .. Why do they fuave such high morale? • They 
. are not draftees; no draftees ever fight like that. They are not high-paid, professional 
soldiers; m,ost of them are peasants who work their fields. 'They are not well-trainec:l; 
.they can't even spare the ammunition for target practice. 
• · :Their secret is that they know why they are fighting. They didn't hear about Vietnam 
in the newspapers; they've lived there all their lives. While we were in high school, 
they were living under the Diem regime and hating it. Now American planes are bombing 
their towns and strafing their fields; American troops have :occupied their country; and ii 
they complain out loud, an American- supported dictator sentences them to jail or th~ 
firing squad ... Is it any wonder that they fight so fiercely? .. 
CRUSHING TH°E RESISTANCE -. 
' The war in Vietnam is not being fought according to the rules. Civilians are gassed. 
Prisoners are tortured. Our planes drop incendiary bombs on civilian villages. Our 
soldiers shoot at women and children. Your officers will tell you that it is all necessary, . 
that we couldn't win the war any other way. And they are right. Americans arc n~ more 1· 
cruel than any other people; American soldiers don't enjoy this kind of war. .B.it if you 
are going to wage war against an entire people, you have to become cruel. The ordinary 
German soldier in occupied Europe wasn't especially cruel, either. But as the resistance I 
movements grew, he became cruel. He shot at women and children because they wen:_ 
.:;hooting at him; he never asked himself why they were shooting at him. When a certarn 
town became a center of resistance activity, he followed his orders and destroyed the 
NW 38613 Docld:34530152 Page 5 
