87D 
[ 
E. 
NW 88321 
E 
. ' 
'\ 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVERSre 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS 
j. Dissemination to Secret Service 
Under agreement between FBI and Secret Service concerning protective 
responsibilities (set out in section 102, volume IV, of this manual), 
reports and LHMs are disseminated to Secret Service both locally 
and at FBIHQ in all cases which meet standards set forth. This 
includes virtually all cases on individuals where any substantial 
information exists as to subversive activities or sympathies of 
subject. When photographs are available send copies to Secret 
Service locally and to FBIHQ for dissemination at headqua.rters 
level. 
(1) Secret Service should be advised of reason for referral; ioeo, 
statement of class or classes of agreement which apply to 
subject. FD-376 serves as letter of transmittal for both local 
and FBIHQ dissemination. Forward original and one copy to FBIHQ 
and maintain copy in case file. 
(2) ·After initial dissemination, as changes occur in- residence and 
emplQyment, advise Secret Service locally by FD-366 and furnish 
t\-19 copies to FBIHQo FD-366 must be submitted even though changes 
in residence and/or employment are noted in report or LI-IM being 
submitted. 
(3) For instructions governing dissemination to-Secret Service in 
matters involving threats against President, refer to section 
134B, volume IV, of this manualo 
(4) Upon transfer of office of origin, old office of origin should 
furnish Secret Service locally with subject's new residence and 
business address by LHM or FD-366. Provide copies to FBIHQ and 
new office of origin for dissemination to Secret Service head­
quarters and branch office covering new residence, respectively. 
(5) _As an administrative aid to insure proper dissemination, the file 
covers of cases in which dissemination is being roade to Secret 
. Service may be stamped 11SS. 11 
.3. Restrictions on field dissemination 
If security measures are known to be inadequate at local office of 
_another Government agency, do not disseminate locally, but bring matter 
to attention of FBIHQ for headquarters dissemination. 
ADMINISTRATIVE INDEX (ADEX) 
1. Purpose and general policy 
a. To have a readily available and up-to-date listing of individuals 
. deemed currently dangerous to the national security. Objective is to 
.identify individuals who should be afforded priority investigative 
coverage in the event of a national emergency. 
b. Under no circumstance should individuals be included in ADEX merely 
because of their opposition to Government policies or because of the 
exercise of their constitutional rights of protest and dissent. 
c. ADEX is strictly an administrative device. It should not be treated 
as a factor in determining basic investigative decisions, i.e~, 
whether an investigation should be opened or closed, the extent of 
investigation to be conducted in a particular case, etc. 
2. Criteria 
- a. .ADEX should include individuals whose actions oi: statements have 
established that they represent a current threat to the national 
·security, i.e.,: . 
Individuals (whether affiliated with organized groups or not) who 
have shown a willingness and capability of engaging in treason, 
rebellion or insurrection, sedition, sabotage, esyionage, terrorism, 
guerrilla warfare, assassination of government officials,. or other 
such acts which would result in interference with or a threat to 
the survival and effective operation of national, state or local 
government. 
1859 
°18 
9-13-73 
