! 
i 
I 
I 
I 
I i 
I 
I 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for 
Deputy Director for 
De!puty Director. for 
. I 
Deputy Director for 
INFO : Inspector General 
2 9 AUG 1973 
Science and Technology 
Intelligence 
!1a.'1agel!:.ent and Services 
Operations 
SUBJECT Questionable Activities 
. . ·1 • . 
I" 
1. • As an aspect 6f the aµega.tions of iaproper CIA a.cti vi ty 
in connection with. the Watergate and associated matters, the 
Inspector General was directed' to assemble all information avail-
abie in the Agency on any such! activities. Certain specific matters· 
vere provided to him, and the Director by me=iorandum of 9 Mey 1973 . • 
directed all employees to report any activities, current ·or pa.st, 
'\rhich might be construed to be outside the legislative charter of I 
this Agency. " This information wa.s ass em bled and consolidated by 
the Inspector General in a memorandum of 21 Mey 1973 and certain 
individual memoranda thereafte:r supplementing it. This material 
vas use·d in a detailed, page-by-page review of all such inforrn.ation 
vith. Senator Symington and Congressman Nedzi, as Chai men of the 
Senate and the House Ar.ned Services Intell~gence Subco::::nittees, 
respectively. In addition, I undertook very specific comc.i.tments 
in my confirmation hearings to ensure that the Agency will remain 
vi thin its legislative charter.: I am arranging for the published. 
transcripts of those hearings t.o be circulated throughout the 
Agency for compliance, and at that time vill reaffirm the specific• 
direction made by_Dr. Schlesinger in his cecorandum of 9 May 1973 . 
. 'lhis will also be incor!)orated ::into appropriate regulations. 
2. ,, With respect to. the specific questionable activities vhich 
Vere reported as a result of the· search made throughout the .Agency, 
hwever, I believe it essential to take specific action in order 
that these not seem to be condoned or overlooked. I have therefore 
developed specific instructions on each repo.rted activity .. These 
. a.re· included in the attachments. to this memorandum, and have the 
force of specific direction to you to pass on to appropriate 
1uhordinates the instructions outlined. Separate packages of such 
'1111tructions are being developed for ea.ch-Directorate in order to 
•. '•i 
.. 
Nspect the sensitivity of sone of the ·activities discussed, inc.lud;- ~Pf)Rtr 
.• 1ng those which are deemed quite appropriate vi thin CIA1 s charter. ' I l \ J IVI 
JUN %.'i 1975 
\.J I 
IMPOET i:::C BY.l<:~::.!::...;:.LI 
· SECRET-EYES O;lt Y 
