.. 
( 
S:E)CTION 107 .• SECURITY IN1i'OHJ1J,JT'r;. .t.nD COlH'ID}''lAL SOURCES 107N' 
. ( 2) 
( 3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
( 7} 
(12) 
(13) 
(14) 
Residence and employment ( If no change since last ,jU:stification 
letter, cer6ly state "no ch~nge.") 
Current membershlp and po·sit:i.on held in subversive organizations 
Summary of information furnished ano./or services rendered during 
pertinent period 
Jmount paid for services and expenses by month 
(Initial justification letter should se·t forth amount, if any, 
ever paid under &lC authority.) 
Type and number of meetil'gs a.ttended and other activity 
Number of written and oral statements submi ·tted 
(~ist separately.) 
Information furnished of unusual value 
.A.pproximate number of persons on whom informant furnished coverage 
and their importance 
Steps being taken to advance informant 
Stability and reliability 
(Set forth personal weaknesses, domestic difficulties, i~dications 
of untrustworthiness or unreliability, or other similar problems 
presented by informant, and steps being ta.lten to prevent any such 
situations from later becoming source of embarrassment to the 
Bu.reau.) 
In4octrination against disclosure 
{State whether e-very opportunity has been taken to properly 
indoctrinate informant against making any disclosure of his 
relationship with Bureau ·thro·ugh any media,) 
All necessary-action taken on information furnished, 
Miscellaneous 
(Any other matters concernin."g informant I s operatio.n which should 
be brought to Bureau's attention) 
(Where applicable-, substitute potential informant, confidential 
source, panel source, or source of information for the ,:10rd "informant.") 
c. When payment to an informant has been authorized. for a definite 
period of time, advise the Bureau at least two weeks .in advance of the 
expiration of the period. for which payment has been authorized as to 
whether the serv-ices of the informant are to be continued. 
d. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting· continuation of pa.yments. Follow form in 
subsection 3b. 
e. Letters requesting authority to continue (increase, decrease) payments 
to an informant should be submitted in duplicate except that the 
copy should consist only of the first page of the letter. When 
payments as requested by the field.·are approved, the single-page 
copy will be stamped 11.A.pproved·" at the Bureau and returned. If the 
recommendation is not approved, correspondence will be prepared 
and transmitted to the field. 
f. In order for this system to function properly, payment letters must 
be explicit. 
g. When payments are authorized by the Burea.u, it is the personal responsi­
bility of each SAC definitely to assure himself that full value is 
being received. 
h. Discontinuance of payments 
If at any time it appears the.information being produced by the 
informant is not commen.surate with the payment.s being made to him, 
the payments should be immediately discontinued or adjusted accordingly 
and the Bureau promptly a~vised. 
i, Extraordinary-expen~es 
In connection with the operation of paid informants, if any extraor­
dinary expenses are anticipated for which approval has no.t been given, 
obiain specific Bureau authority. 
19 
3-15-65 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1538 
