61 
SECTION 6. 
- PART II •. 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AfID PUBLIC CONTACTS 
SACs must be alert in reco~mending SAC contacts that they are not ~ro­
posing individuals w~o because of business connections or persbnal 
a.c~ivities or close association with other persons will be involved in 
unfavorable publicity or become the subject of adverse investigative 
activity., or who will capitalize on their friendly association wi·~h 
the SAC. 
4. Ex.cept where a suitable file is already in existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
5. A three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained in an SAC 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the SAC. Each card is to 
contain: 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office-and home addresses and telephone numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any comments which would be helpful in handling the individual 
e. Date of first contact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
(Show in the lower left corner on the front of the card.) 
f. Dates of contacts by the SAC {to be entered on th~ reverse side of 
the card in'longhand).· Contacts more frequent than quarterly should 
not be listed. 
g. Any necessary descriptive data 
6. Each contact is to be indexed in the general indices. The card is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparation, and the notatiqn, 
"See SAC. 11 
7. SAC contacts located in headquarters city must be contacted at.least three 
times each year; those.located in areas regularly covered by road trips 
out of headquarters city or located in resident agencies must be contacted 
at least two times. each year. 
8. .Advise Bureau immediately when a con·l;act is discontinued U.A.CB. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city loo ated within another 
field division, a copy of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
should be destgnated for that field division . .Also advise field division 
of background information re contact. 
9. .Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of S.A.C con·l;acts. 
10. Each office must submit a complete roster of S.A.C contacts to reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and November each year. If there are 
any changes in address, employment, or other pertinent data, such informa­
tion should be set forth. If there is no change in status, so state. 
11. From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to• assist in ma.lcing them more 11F~I minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indi.cation that such 
material is not welcomed by any S.AC contact should .be made known to the 
Bureau without delay. 
12. Immediately upon assuming the duties of S.AC, such S.AC should visit all 
persons listed as S.AC contacts and in addition leading officials located 
in the field division. 
8 
12-29-67 
W 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 281 
( 
/ \ 
C 
