• 
NK 157-2011 
On June 11, 1974, NK T-2 advised he developed information 
that would indicate a meeting was held at the residence of 
AL LENTZ, Grand Dragon of the National Knights of the Ku Klux 
Klan, in the York, Pennsylvania area. In attendance, were numerous 
members of the Ku Klux Klan and Minutemen organization. 
t 
FRANK DRAGER was known ~o have been at this meeting. 
DRAGER outlined.his pl~ns for establishing an organization called 
the National Revoluntionary·Army. DRAGER explained that the goals 
of this group were to 
11
destr:oy 11 the United States Government and 
replace it with members of his own group. DRAGER was believed to 
have mentioned he contacted H. R..1'\.P BROWN, . .a black extremist, and 
other activist leaders and plans to united 1 these va~ious groups 
to achieve his goals. v 
DRAGER also indicated he had a large quantity of dyn~mite 
and plans to blow up two city blocks on July 4, 1974. DRAGER 
stated that he did not have.blasting caps at that time but migh~. 
be able to.get them from a Minuteman member in Indiana. 
DRAGER alleges to have traveled to various parts of 
the country and has urged members of the right wing to commit 
acts of violence on July 4, 1974, so that the NR..1'\. could take 
credit for these acts. The source was advised DRAGER exhibited 
four .45 caliber pistols, three .30 caliber carbines and one 
bolt action rifle at this meeting. • 
• The source was further advised DRAGER braggs about his 
passing bad checks in Florida and his using stolen credit cards 
to purchase gasoline, food and lodging. DRAGER supposedly plans 
to obtain $200,000.00 in the near future and this might be 
·accomplished through a kidnapping or bank robbery. 
DRAGER further indicated sometime during the meeting 
that he would like to know how to make letter bombs. 
On June 13, 1974, NK T-3 advised he learned a meeting 
was held at the home of ALBERT LE~TZ, head of a small group called 
the Independent Ku Klux Klan of York, Pennsylvania. FRZ\.LlK DRn.GER 
was known to have been in attenc.ance with six or seven other 
right wing sympathizers. At that meeting, DR~GER stated he plans 
to blow up two city blocks by placing dynamite in the sewer system 
of this city. ~ 
r 
·so 
NW382% Page£04 • 
