-9-
;·:J ,~::-..T .. : 
Ccneral rreue Schneider (O,ilc). On October 25, 1970, ~cncral 
Schneider died of gunshot wounds inflicted while resistin:_:; a kidnap attempt 
three days earlier. Schneider,· as Commander in Chief of the Arr.iy anJ a 
constitutionalist opposed to military coups, was considered an obstacle to 
efforts to prevent Salvador Allende from assuJ11in 6 the office of fresident 
of Chile. The United States Goverrunent supportcd,anJ sought to instigate, 
a military coup to block Allende. U.S. officials supplied financial aid, 
machine .r,uns and other equipment to various military fi~ures uho opposed 
Allende. There was conflictin3, evidence on Hhether the United States had 
previously severed relations with the ~roup_that kidnapped and killed 
Schneider and on whether any of the equipment sui;;Jlied was actu.J.lly used 
in the kidnapping. 
1-s;..,o Dinh Diem (South Vietnam). Diem and his brother, mm, were 
killed on !fovember 2, 1963, in the course of a South Vietnar.1cse r:enerals' 
coup. Although the United States Government supported the coup, there was 
no evidence th::it 1\.raeric;:~n officials favored the assassination. Indeed, it 
ap;)earec that the assassination of Die:n was not part of the Generals' iJre-
coup planning but was instead a spontaneous act whici1 occurred during t'i1e 
coup and with which there was no American connection. 
In addition tb these five cases the Co~ooittce 'received evidence 
that ranking· 0overnment officials discussed, and may have au thorizeJ, the 
establishment within tlte CIA of a generalized capability to assassinate. 
ce-Chair:11an Sinilari ties_ and Differ enc cs J\r,;on;:; the Plots. The plots all 
.,.,er reserved 
,ht to involved Third Horld countries, most of Hhich 1.1ere relatively suall and 
:.:1nr;e to 
•elude con- none of which possessed great political or military str~n;:i;th .. Apart fr:om 
,,t of Com-
:rd.st sphere that similarity,, there were significant differences auong the plots. The 
·. ~uence 
• tl-i':i.ri' followin['; distinctions are pertinent: 
,; tern P.erni-
:1ere. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 14 
