I~ 
2.J 
~ 
:I i 
i 
i 
l 
! 
' ' .. 
,. 
l 
C .. 
I. 
I 
., 
I . 
\..' ' 
:R 
.V SECRET ·-J 
. PLANS, PROGRAMS, AN1) PROJECTS HR 230-8 
8. ADlHINISTRA'l'IVE • PLANS, LIQUIDATION PLANS, AND FISCAL 
ANNEXES 
n .. GEN:ERAL 
(1) In the furthe:::ance of :;ome Agency objectives it is necessary to establish, 
operate and support overt Instrumentalities which do not have ostensible 
afi'ilin.tion with the U.S. Government. Thes~ ostensibly private_ org:rnlia­
tions which may be snsceptih1e to-scrutiny by a variety of tax r,nd rc1,~la­
tory authorities, th~ press, hostile clements and others, require operational 
security of a high order. It is essential that they are established and 
mana~ed in accordance with normal practices_ and requir'ements of the 
type of enterprise concerned, and th:i.t they are stafied with qualified 
personnel whose cover histories are compatible with such employment. 
• It Is also essential that there arc adequate general management, financial 
and security controls consistent with both operational. effectiveness and 
the requirements of nonattribution, for the protection of the Agency's 
lntere.sts. 1 • . 
(2) The controls and procedures whlch :are applicable to an instrumentality 
wlll be specified in a project outline and administrative plan or fiscal 
annex. Stand.3.rds and ·form~t for administrative plans and fiscal annexes, 
' • as well as for liquidation pl::tns to be followed when an instrumentality is 
to be discontinued, are prescribed in IIHB 230-1 .. 
b. POLICY 
CO The establishment or continuance of' an instrumentality is justified only 
·when it contributes to the accomplishment of the Agency's mission and 
Js operational!.y determined to be the. most advantageous means of gaining 
a particular and necessary objective. The purpose of an instrumentality 
shall be to ccmduct s~cret operations or support such operations under 
cover of its overt function. 
(2) No binding commitment with respect to the establishment of any in­
strurncntality shall be made before the approval required by this regu­
lation has been obtained. • 
c. DEFThTIIONS 
(1) PROJECT. A project ls a management device through which specific 
operational activities are undert2.ken to meet programmed objectives. 
Budgetin~ and finaccial accountability are maintained against the project 
for furicls and resources authorized for it. 
(2) INSTRUMENTALITY.· An instrumentality ls a corporation, a foundation, 
partnership, sole proprietorship, or other l_egal entity (within the private 
sector, domestic or foreign) for which specific I funds or other assets 
have been authorlzed under a form:illy ~->.pproved_ project. Within a project 
there may be one or· more instrumenfaliti.es . 
..... (a) Proprietary. A propri::t::i.ry is an instrumentility in which the Agency 
acquires ownership of a controlling interest, through appropriate 
nominee or legal entity arrang~ments. rne Agency exercises, through 
stocl--J1older or other equity arra::igements, control of the instru­
mentality in terms of the policy, :ldmmi.stration, formufatlon of 
bud;;cts, and the application of funds. • 
{b) Operational Investment. An operational investment is the acquisition 
by the Agency of an equity in nn instrumentality, through appropriate 
nominee or legal entity arrangements, of less than a controlling 
interest, with. the expectation of _recovering so:ne or all of its inv~st­
ment. Any influence the .-\gency may e:-:ert over budget formulation and 
'. ) i ', r\ ~ • . t , C !OU? l • • 
NW 
,.J,. 
Reviset1: 1: 'Augl!tst 196!) (t,G:i:) 15 
oc, · 30 1915 
Doclc()i4AJ532 Page 193 • 
SECRET 
'•. 
·•.· 
