13-00000 
3. 
because 
support 
sidered 
SECRETJ 
The following·items were heretofore classified SECRET 
they described sources and methods in identifying a 
base located in the United States, but are now con-
to have been placed in the public domain. 
Items 124, 126, and, 127 on pages 129, and 130 _:.. 
INTERMOUNTAIN AVIATIONf INC. Intermount;ain Aviation, 
Inc. is named as an Ag~ncy proprietary in Book I of • 
the Senate Select Committee Final Report,' pp. 208-9, 
and in the Report. of the Rockefeller Commission on 
CIA Activities Within the United States, pg. 218. 
4. The following items fall into the questionable area 
as to whether they have been placed in the public domain by 
auth6rized Government officials: 
a. Item 49, page 71a -- ROME DAILY AMERICAN. 
Classified SECRET because it describes intelligence 
sources and methods as related to several newspaper. 
publications. However, CCS files contain a newsclip 
from the September and October 1974 edition of the 
Columbia· Jourrfali·sm Review which states, "Landon K. 
Thorne, Jr., the CIA's Bross, and a lawyer for CIA, 
Benjamin Shute, then a partner in the prestigious 
Wall Street law firm of Cravath, Swaine, and Moore, 
now acknowledge that the fourth partner [in the 
purchase of the Rome Daily American in 1956] was the 
CIA. [Bross] recently called the arrangement 'atypical' 
of what ·the Agency was doing, 'a bad example' . " It is 
questionable whether the remarks made by :Mr. Bross, who 
retired from the Agency in'1971, and Mr. Shute, who 
left the Agency long before that, can be considered 
. as constituting official Agency disclosure of this 
information. 
. b. Item 54, page 80 and item 236, 'page 262 -- FORUM 
WORLD FEATURES. Classified SECRET because they describe 
intelligence sources and methods and identification of 
operations based in England. Fo·rum World Featu:r·es was 
referred to -- but not by name -- in Book I of the Senate 
Select Committee Final Report, page 199, as follows: 
"Another example of the damages of [propaganda] 'fallout' 
involved two.proprietary news services that the CIA main­
tained in Europe .... the larger of the two was su 1:scribed 
to by over 30 U.S. newspapers. In an effort to reduce the 
problem of fallout, the CIA made a senior official at the 
major dailies aware that the CIA controlled these two 
-4-
