6A PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, A'HD PUBLIC CONTACTS 
2. Requesting authority for release ( 
a. By teletype 
~t least four hours before the time of release, developments in the 
case, an outline of the release, and statement release will be made 
UACB are to be furnished the Bureau. • 
b. By telephone where-time.is of essence 
Confer with division head having supervisio.n of the matter for 
investigative clearance and with the office of the division head of 
the Crime Records Division for final press clearance. While good 
judgment mus.t prevail; in important cases in which a local newspaper 
deadline is approaching, it may be advisable to telephone the Bureau 
for clearance. 
-3. Press releases are to be ·made personally only by the SAC or in his absence 
by the .A:SAC. 
4. Releases are to be made both at head,.quarters and the local area affected 
by developmenJs._ All material prepared for the public must be.reviewed 
word for word. It is not to contain words .or phrase.s which :rp.i·ght be 
regarded as objectionable ·or offensive ·to a member of any race, creed, or 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized.wherever 
possible, and all press ~eleases should be coordinated to eliminate.any 
avoidable delays. • 
5. In the absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the public interest, 
no statement should be put in an announcement to the press to the effect· 
that a subject either has confessed or has admitted his crimes without 
specif.ic Burea'u approval. In case of doubt, consult the Bureau. When 
the fact that a s11:bject has given a c-onfession is included in a complaint 
and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press, a "no comment" _reply should 
be given. The complaint is a court record and must be left to speak for 
itself. 
6. On-the-spot announcements by SAC are authorized in ·emergency situations 
in .whic-h good judgment so dictates. Emergency on-the-spot-statements by 
Agents limited to their official identity ~nd, if known, the identity of 
fugitive or criminal in gun battle. If badly wanted fugit;i.ve apprehended 
in remote area and SAC absent, Agent may, in rare emergency only and where 
t~me of essence, furnish bare details. Contact by SAQ with press should 
be effected immediately where press desires further details. 
[ 7. In the normal process of issuing press releases,[either local or national, 
[ SACs may, when requested, make personal appearances for television and radio, 
[ provided no intervie·,n are conducted and there is absolutely no elaboration 
[ over and above the original press release. These conditions should be made 
[ known in advance to television and radio station representatives when such 
[ requests are received:] • •• 
8. In the absence of special circumstances, Bureau Agents.should never suggest 
.:ir request a reporter or another·representative of a newspaper or similar 
publication to withhold the publicati'on of news. In the event that specia·l 
circumstances do exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bureau prior 
to making any such request. 
9. In cases involving bombings having an apparent racial or religious basis 
with the resultant public interest, the SAC should issue a statement-to 
·the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en rout~ to 
actively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them 
every possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the Bureau's full 
laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by handling 
out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts that· 
may indicate any Federal violation. At no time should this statement· 
indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility for. 
the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance of this state­
ment requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the • 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically_ and furnished known facts of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
10. Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press 
release file if exists. 
N:W 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 309 
la 
12-27-65 
J 
