( 
( 
..... 
I 
I • 
( 
I. 
( 
[ 
{6) 
( :;TION 87. SECURITY INVES'.l.'IGA' JiS 87D 
The abo. is not all-inclusive. Facts ·~loped in• each case 
will produce infol'mntion which will be :i.nd:ic;d;i vc of the ncces si ty 
for conducting furJ~hcr investigation along line::; which v1ill 
neces.sita.te the use of various :i r,vcstigative techniques to uev-clop 
the case .fnlly. The succcssi'ul investigation o:f an in:dividua.l 
will depend upon the resourcefulness of_thc investigating Agents 
in developing techniques which will further establish the sub­
versive activity of a subjecto ~ 
Discretion must be used in those instances in which contact 
with persons known to the subject is believed dcsira~le. 
Where such contact is contempla.ted, the Agent should assure 
himself of the character, loyalty, and reliability of the person 
to ·be contacted concerning the subject by reviewing the office 
indices and in some instances conducting preliminary inquiry, 
p-ossibJ:y under pretext, with others to ascerta:i'n the cha·r::i.cter, 
reliability, and loyalty of the person of whom inquiry concern­
ing the nubject is intended. 
In conducting security investigations the necessity of· ob­
taining admissible evidence mus·!; be contfnually bo1·ne in n1ind. 
However, sources furnishing information of a confidential nature 
are valuable and should be continued and enlarged for the pur­
pose of obtaining information which can be -corroborated by 
other sources which can be disclosed, thus rendering the infor­
mation admissible as evidenceo 
~he danger of relying upon evidence from.only one confidential 
informant or other source is obvious and every ~ffort should be 
made to obtain evideµce from various types of sources and through 
various investigative techniqueso 
Information obtained from one source should be corr·oborated 
by contacts witlr confidential informants, public and private 
sources, through physical and photographic surveiilances, 
review of office files, and other sources. Adequate 
coordination of information received from confidential sources 
with active investigation should be•-maintained at all times 0 For 
example, when it is ascertained through one of these sources that 
an important meeting is to occur, the nature of the meeting should 
be confirmed i:f possible by independ:ent sources wllich can furnish 
• evidence of an admissible character., Th~ meetiI1,g should· be covered 
by .arrangement for attendance by confidential informants to ob-
tain admissible evidence of the proc·e·edings ~ The· meetings should 
b~ placed under physical surveillance, licenses of automobiles 
parked near the meeting place noted, and attendants identified.· 
If possible and advisable., photographic surveillances should 
be established. Other types of information received ~rom confi-. 
dential sources should receive similar a·ttentian in o.rder that· 
verification may be made and admissible eviclence developed. 
Preservation of evidence 
{a) Identify, preserve, and maintain continuity of evidence ob­
tained-with a view ·to its possible admission in Federal pro~ 
ceedings. Identify specifically as to source ~nd date. 
37 
10-23-64 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page £39 
