13-00000 
SUBJECT: The JFK Declassification Experience 
exile groups and CIA involvement in Project MONGOOSE were 
declared relevant. Hundreds of JMWAVE cables, Mexico City 
Station documents, and Cuban names, and many with their 
crypts, were released. 
15. (U) Those records that the Board concluded 
"truly had no apparent relevance to the assassination" 
were designated "not be_lieved relevant" (NBR). Cooperative 
negotiation resulted in about 50,000 pages being declared 
NBR. 
INADVERTENT RELEASES/FOREIGN LIAISON CONCERNS 
16. (AIUO) As noted above, inadvertent releases were 
inevitable. The contributing factors included: guidelines 
that changed almost continuously as negot~ations with the 
ARRB reduced the claims of current sensitivity; inaccurate 
and incomplete records on the cover status of retirees; an 
initial tendency, consistent with FOIA practices, to deny 
crypts but to release true names- the crypt implying an 
Agency relationship- if the text did not imply same. (Later: 
duplicate copies plus mosaic pattern analysis made linkage of 
some crypts and true name quite easy.); and a surge of 
inexperienced reviewers loaned during the closing days to 
meet the agreed NARA deadline for the remaining files. 
17. (S) The ·inadvertent releases of former employees 
names resulted in a few individual complaints but no known 
foreign government or liaison service complaints. Four 
foreign governments opposed release of their information_ 
when queried, but no inadvertent releases were involved. 
(See Appendix C.) The worst slip appears to have been the 
name of a former NOC, living abroad, who, upon being 
informed, demanded and received compensation for the 
violation of his confidential relationship with CIA and the 
FBI. The other outraged termer employee, also living abroad, 
threatened to contact the President if it became known in his 
adopted country that he had been CIA. His true name, on a 
great many documents, is the only redaction; he was of 
considerable interest to the Board as a key player in the 
HSCA investigation because he was the Mexico Branch chief 
and was initially appointed by the ODO to be the focal point 
for JFK assassination information and briefings. The HSCA 
allowed him to testify in alias, and the ARRB allowed the 
substitution of his alias wherever his true name appeared; 
however, the Board ruled that his true name should be 
6 
~ 
