• SECRET/SENSITIVE 9 -
5. On two or- three occasions between 1970 an<l 1Q72, the. Washington Field 
Office loaned the MPD Morals Division a device •••••• ch-tone-' -
telephone. The request came from and Il.:.. J 
·:!i@Jf3!R~ Ed Sayle of CIA was CIA's contact with ~~:f~~,,, 
equipment requests. Dollard or Foran would call Sayle, who in turn 
would direct Brewer to provide the equipment. 
On two or three occasions between 1970 and 1972 
to provide receiving devices to ~WD. Once 
sonally contacted Brewer and requested a receiver. 
(ostensibly for training purposes). 
7. On several occasions covert liliniature transmitters ,srere furnished to 
MPD on an indeLnite loan. 
8. The Washington Field Office also gave MPD personnel technical advice 
on use of double tape machines and advice on photography from time to 
time. 
MPD received no assi'.;tance from the Washington Field Office when they set 1-:p 
their Intelligence Division in 1967-68. No other assistance was ever rendered 
r•IPD concerning sol vi1tg particular crime or interrogating a particular 1d tness. 
Sometime after Director Schlessinger became DCI, the }.[PD ,.,as asked to return 
all equipment previo,1sly loaned· to it by the CIA,and most was returned. Appar­
ently a list of this equipment has been prepared. (The list may include other 
police departments a~ well). 
Montgomery County Po~ice Department 
In about 1970, Mr. 13:ceiver loaned some transmitters to t 
an f the county police. They had already een loaned 
ceivers came with the Washington Field Office. 
Fairfax County Police Department 
1. ; Years ago the county \vas given an old Ampex 601 recorder equipped to take 
a telephone tap off a dial phone. 
2. On one occasion Bre1•:er accompanied a county police representati vc to U.S. 
Recording on S. Capitol Street to help him pick out a dial recorder for 
telephone taps. 
3. In 1969-70, Brewer loaned some photographic equipment to the county police 
forces intelligence unit. The equipment has never been returned. 
No personnel have ever been loaned to the county. No assistance has ever been 
given concerning a specific crime or wltness. 
SECRET /SENS IT IVE 
NW 50955 Docid:32203834 Page 14 
I I 
l 
l 
' 
