87.A - B 87. SECURITY IHVES:(IG.ATI-
• 
[ 
( 
Bo 
... 
. L 
( 
• .. : [ . 
:· ( 
of thn U. s. by force or the government of any state, territory, 
district, or possession thereof, or the govermnent of ;,.ny 
political subdivision thereof, or 
c. Orga.ni?.cd society, group, or assembly 
(1) The person ,:>r3an.b:cd, ox- helped organize, a socie~y, group, or 
assembly of persons 
(2) Which taught, advocated, or· encouraged the overthrowing or 
destruction of the Government of the U. s., or the goycrnment 
of anJ state, territory, district, or possession·thereof, ~r the 
goverp~ent of any political subdivision ihcreof 
(
4
3) By force or violence, or • 
( ) The peJ~son became a member of, or affiliated with, such society, 
group, or assembly of persons 
(5) Knowing the purpose thereof 
SUDMISSIPN TO THE BURE.AU OF SUBVERSIVE DEROGATORY INFOill1..A.'.I.'ION 'ON INDIVIDUALS 
l. To ipsure the proper discharge of the Bureau's responsibility to furnish 
information at the seat of Government at the• request of other atrencies 
. 3., 
4. 
5. 
and to have it availa1le at the, seat of Government when such reque~ts are 
received from other 'agencies, the Bureau must be promptly furnished, for 
indexing purposes by offices covering the national and local headquarters 
of the various su.bvcrs ive organizations, the names of, and identifying 
data concerning, persons affiliated with ap.d· becoming affiliated with 
the following types of organizations_ listed below. 
a.e Basic revolutionary organizations or groups 
Corr.munist Party, US.A. 
Soc:i.alis t Workers Party 
Proletari·an Party of .A.rnerica . . 
Other Marxist revolutionary organizations including splinter groups, 
if any, of the preceding[three]organizations 
Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico 
b. Nationalist and fascist-type groups 
Ce Front organizations of 1, a and b above,· including those 
(1) Cited by the Attorney General 
(2). Cited or declared by the House Committee on un.:..Juneric~~n .Activities 
or by any of the various legislative committees 
(3) Described as such or as an organization dominated or controlled 
by one. of the basic revolutionary organizations or groups by 
security informants or other sourqes of known reliability 
Such lists should include the organization's·,membership list ·anq. any 
other re6ord showing affiliation. _ . 
Fiild offices obtaini~g information ~oncerning-such af±iliati~n oi 
individuals residing outside their terr~tory must expeditiously furni~h,. 
such information to the office covering the address of the person 0 
The information should be submitted to the Bureau in duplicate by letter 
captioned with the title of the organizational case file, for example,. 
"Communist Party, USA, . District, _____ Division; Internal 
Security - C" or[ "Socialist Workers Party, --,----=-Division; Interna} 
Security - SWP11]and should clearly indicate that the list is being 
furnished to the Bureau for indexing purposes only. 
Information received from all sources, including that received from 
confidentiil sources, highly confidential sources, reports of 
Jecurity informants and sources, and public and other sources, should 
be reviewed to insure that the Bureau has been furnished in the past ~nd 
will be furnished in the future lists. of all individuals (together with 
identifying data) affiliated with all organizations set forth _in 1 a., b, 
and c. 
In forwarding such information to the Bureau, the offi~es should incor­
porate, insofar as possible, information concerni.::ig a ::iumber ·of indiv:i,duals 
in one letter. The letter should contain sufficient identifying da~a 
concerning each individual to enable the Bureau to ide.ntify that individual 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 £30 
2 
11-13-64 
- ( 
$ 
J, 
<', 
~.;;­.. L:r 
.:--, 
:r 
;y 
{ 
-,'°( 
V 
