P:A.RT II 
SECTION 6.. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CONT.A.CTS.· 
d.. Each insert should be filed with the buileti"n to which it relates.. :C 
No indexing of individual notices contained-therein is necessary~ 
4. Each office must submit to the Bureau annually at least three suggestions 
for articles, idedtifying the suggested author, and brieflJ describing 
the nature of the suggested articleo The article should not be prepared, 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any general or specifio sub­
ject of law enforcement interest, including the following: 
a. Better investigative or administrative methods and techniques of 
any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI National 
Academy men 
b'. Improved or unusual. equipment being used 
Co Complicated, unusual, ·and weJ.1-handled cases which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems and excellent police work 
d. Human interest items from loo-al police work 
e. Police and firearms tratning subjects , 
f., Crime prevention articles. fro-m d: epartments which have t-aken ~ggress;i.ve 
action to combat juvenile delinquency 
go Transmit all, material to the Bureau under the caption: 
~-, FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research {Crime Records) 
. C • SPEECHES 
~W-38321 
i o Bureau is to be notified of all. speaking engagements o_ Speaking engage­
ments are to be- handled by the SAC. If he cannot handle them, the ASAC 
should. I'f neither can, ah Agent previously approved as a speaker is 
to be designated and the, Bureau advised UACB. Changes in speaking engage­
ments must be communicated p~omptly to the Bureau. Three weeks prio~ to 
a~y radio or television speech, a manuscript of the speech must be sub- • 
mi tted for the, Bureau•' s review and approval,. In some ether C?,ses in-rolv-
ing impor
1
tant speeches not on radio o: television, the Bureau will (". 
speoifioa ly request such manuscripts. If speech is to be broadcast or 
televised, prior Bureau approval of manuscript and commitment must be 
obtainP.d. These regulations, as well as all other F~I administrative 
procedures,. should not be the sub jeot of comment to the public., 
2 0 Copy of Bureau letter approving speaker should be placed in his field 
personnel file. . 
3. Each office is to designate a supervisor.to handle speech material. 
To this supervisor must be routed law enforcement bulletins, FBI Notes, 
interesting case material, magazines, research literature, and newspaper 
clippings containing information of value to police instructors and 
approved speakers. This material to be indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in ,the speech material files. 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-~PS 
1. Write-ups of interesting case~ may be: 
a. Requested by the ~ureau 
b o Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c. Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning oases of: 
ao Major im~ortance 
b. Public interest 
c. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d. Novel investigations of human interest 
3. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b. Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d. Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
f. In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g, Showing the actual time which is to be served ·under sentence 
Page 953 
2 
9-30-60 
( 
