,. 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALI~'if l-YJ
1
~;~: ••. 
•• ,, liOu-> 
'-'C (,;. ( J. i .. • -i..,t 
43. For the better part of two years, CIA had been check­
ing information obtained from refugee, tjefector, and agent 
sources with NPIC whenever it was apparent that the informa­
tion was of a kind that could be verified or negated by aerial 
·reconnaissance. In rMay 1962, NPIC began publishing a series of 
-formal listings (Photographic Evaluation of Information on Cuba) 
in which these reports were evaluated in ~he light of photogra-
phic,coverage. In the 7 issues of this publication between 31 
May and S October NPIC examined 138 raw reports referred· to it 
for comment. Of this total, only three cited missile activity 
which could not be linked directly to the SA-2 and cruise mis­
sile deployments. NPIC's evidence negated those three. 
44. When th~ first indications of build-up began to.come 
in in Augus~,¾these procedures were further tightened. CIA 
_current intelligence _was ordered orally by the DD/I's office 
on about 14 August not to publish any information on the con­
struction of missile bases in Cuba until they had been checked 
out with NPIC. (This instruction was in the field of intelli­
gence technique rather than of policy; it had no relation to. 
later restrictions; (see para 50). Between 14 August and mid­
October this office sent NPIC 13 memoranda asking for a check 
on 25 Separate reports containing information which was thought 
to raise the.possibility of Soviet offensive weapons in Cuba. A 
great many more such reports were checked with NPIC informally 
by telephone. In all cases, NPIC either lacked the necessary 
coverage or made a negative finding. 
45. On 20Augtist, the COMOR Targeting Working Group 
(chaired and staffed largely by CIA) set up the fir~t comp~e­
hensi ve card file system for Cuban targets. An example of its 
procedures is the handling of targets in the Sagua La Grande 
area. Based on refugee reporting, the COMOR Targeting Working 
Group on 27 August pinpointed four farms in this area as sus­
pect· missile sites. Readout of the 29 August coverage showed 
an SA-2 site near Sagua La Grande which apparently was the basis 
for the reported activity there, and the target card was changed 
to show a confirmed SA-2 site. It should be noted that know­
ledge that this site was in the area could have led analysts to 
misinterpret any subsequent reports of MRBM activity as part of 
the SAM development,but in fact no such reports were received. 
46. By September, the volume of agent and refugee report­
ing had become very large inde~d. During the month 8E2 re-
p6rts on internal activities in Cuba were disseminated, exclu­
sive of telegraphic dissemination. {The CIA clandestine col­
lectors report that their output represented only the small pub­
lishable fraction of the raw material collected.) A substantial 
-24-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST ., 
