2 0 DEC 1973 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, QSI Honor and Merit Award Panel 
SUBJECT: Request for QSI: 
William M. Kent, GS-14 
1. It is recommended that Mr. William M. Kent be 
granted a Quality Step Increase in recognition of his out­
standing performance as Chief of the SA Section and Acting 
Deputy Branch Chief of WH/6 during the tension-filled days 
which preceded and followed the Chilean military coup of 
11 September 1973. The nature of Mr. Kent's service to the 
Agency during this period has been described more fully in 
his most recent fitness report, which evaluated his overall 
performance as "Outstanding. 11 
2. Mr. Kent served as Acting Deputy Branch Chief of 
WH/6 for five months, from mid-June to mid-November 1973, 
while concurrently continuing to direct the large and im­
portant Chilean covert action program with exceptional 
competence. Mr. Kent thus was handling two exacting jobs 
simultaneously during the entire coup period. This was a 
time of particular tension for the Branch, since developments 
in Chile were of international importance and generated almost 
daily requests for special papers and briefings for top U.S. 
Government leaders. Mr. Kent performed at a consistently 
high level in both his SA and mana,erial capacities: his 
propaganda and political action guidance was timely, imagina­
tive and effective, while his managerial decisions as pro· 
visional head of a 15-man branch reflected sound judgment 
and an across-the-board foundation in cland£stine operations. 
3. A self-reliant and exceptionally talented SA officer, 
Mr. Kent was personally responsible for the creation and 
implementation of two successful Division programs -- one in 
the political action and one in the propaganda field~- which 
have made an important contribution to the achievement of 
U.S. policy objectives with regard to Chile. These programs 
are being continued even though Mr. Kent has now left the 
Branch to handle an exacting new staff assignment. 
rr: ' ; , ' I E2, IMPDET 
CL BY 024345 
