13-00000 
h i 't(:itt m ·• 1 anYr·? ire r • 
EDlTORIAL (an updated version of an editorial first printed May 1973) 
Burying Facts and Rewriting History - II 
One of the efforts of this magazine is to pursue truth. 
One of the ways in which truth is pursued is not to let 
statements of the utmost importance be buried and for• 
·'l&iten in the pages of daily newspapers, nor unreported 
and lost because they are no longer well covered in nation­
al news magazines. 
Among those statements are two of permanent interest 
in connection with the Watergate Caper (this phrase is es­
tablishmentese for "the Watergate Crime"). 
- The statement by Bernard L. Barker, one of the con­
victed operatives, which. explains his motivation 
and background (see November 1972, Computers 
and Automation). 
- The statement by Alfred Baldwin, 3rd, ex-FBI agent, 
an employee of the Republican Committee to Re­
elect the President, telling what he did and saw 
while five men burglarized the Watergate offices 
of the Democratic National Committee on June 
17, 1972, about 2:30 a.m. (see December 1972, 
C&A). 
In addition, we have published seven installments of re­
ports on the Watergate Crime by our contributing editor, 
Richard E. Sprague (a computer professional of 25 years 
standing) who as an avocation has studied for many years 
dirty political operations in the United States, including 
the assassinations by conspiracies (not "lone assassins") of 
President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert Kennedy, and 
Reverend Martin Luther King. 
Three years ago in May 1970, when we began to pub­
lish this type of article, we could not have spoken confi­
dently of "the assassination by conspiracies" of two 
Kennedys and one King. But the articles we have pub­
lished - which are listed and characterized on the follow­
ing pages - have together a remarkable impact. 
Taken together, the information published May 1970 to 
October 1973 in Computers and Automation effectively 
destroys a large segment of the beliefs, the rewritten his­
tory, that the establishment in the United States has 
arranged for people in the United States to believe. I do 
not assert that the establishment is a conscious organism 
or organization; perhaps the best desqription is this: a 
loose confederation of overt conspiracies, silent conspir­
acies, and biased wealthy persons, with very intelligent 
orchestration stemming from the Pentagon, the Central 
Intelligence Agency and the Presidency, and with assists 
from organized crime and the Mafia. 
We challenge any fairminded person to read this col-
may be ordered from us), and after reading them, to still 
believe that the assassinations are actually the actions of 
"lone psychopaths," instead of fitting together into a plan 
to install a certain kind of autocracy in the United States. 
This kind of autocracy claims to be democratic, to 
stand up Jor "national security," "executive privilege," 
"separatio~ of Constitutional powers," etc. It offers ap­
pearances of democracy, but it seizes the realities of 
money and power. It cuts programs of social benefit; but 
it allocates $80 billion a year to be paid to the military­
industrial-Pentagon complex. 
In the l 940's there was a name for this kind of autoc­
racy. Its name was "fascism," effectively a dictatorship 
in the interests of big business. What is now appearing in 
the U.S. is ''fascism" in the form of a dictatorship by the 
military-industrial complex. 
Here in a nutshell is an example of the present uneven 
contest: it takes the form of two sentences in tt report by 
E. Drake Lundell, Jr., in Computerwor/d for April 22, 
1973: 
• The Antitrust Division of the Justice Department 
is "outmanned and outgunned" when it comes to 
prosecuting cases like the current action against IBM, 
Senate investigators were told last week. 
• In addition, witnesses before the Senate Antitrust 
and Monopoly Subcommittee stated that often the 
division cannot do its job properly because of polit­
ical pressure from the White House. . .. 
These two statements contain a world of implications. 
Essentially, the Department of the United States Gov­
ernment which is charged with enforcing certain U.S. laws 
against monopoly, can no longer properly function because 
of (1) the enormous power of just one business, IBM, and 
(2) political pressure from the White House (this phrase is 
establishmentese for "President Richard M. Nixon"). 
,, 
We must dig up facts, remember them, and write 
history the way it is. 
We must take action to compel the persons who deceive 
us and lie to us to leave the government of the United 
States, such as Spiro Agnew, former Vice President. 
