( TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
. . ' . 
!-:.!I...;;..., .. : ... -_;;·: 
F. ,The New Overflight Program 
24. The results of the 29 August and 5 September mis­
sions, in particular the confirmation of SA-2 sites, led to 
• a full review of the overflight' program for Cuba.·· This took 
·-piace in the White House on 10 September. Among those pre­
sent were Mr. Rusk, Mr. Robert Kennedy, Mr. McGeorge Bundy, 
General Carter, and General Lansdale. The decisions of this 
m~eting are crucial to the record.; -and some discussion of 
the atmosphere in which they were taken is required. There 
were three- major factors: • 
a. On 30 August, a SAC U-2 had overflown Sakhalin 
Island. The USSR had protested on 4 September, the US had· 
acknowledged the overflight, and the incident has received 
major play in the world press. This had be~n followed on 8 
September by the loss of Mission GRC-127 over Communist 
China, ·accompanied by even greater publicity_. As a result, 
most of the participants were--to varying degrees--reluctant 
to chance another U-2 incid~nt at this time. This mearit. 
that they wer.e naturally hesitant to authorize any flights . 
over areas where SA-2s· .might be operational. 
b. Second, there is no record that the MRBM 
problem was discussed. The hard intelligence gathered 
so far on the Soviet build-up (the Banes problem wa~ 
still ~pin the air), was not such as to produce~ sense 
of alarm or a feeling that urgent action was required. 
The establishment of SA-2s and, other advanced defensive 
systems had·been foreseen in the NIE of 1 August -and 
their probable arrival had been fully reported during the 
intervening period. Hence ~onfirmation came not as a shock, 
but as a problem to be dealt with deliberately. (It may 
even have served to reiax the sense of urgency generated by 
the President 9 S decision~ of 23 August, the known usually 
being less alarming than the unknown.) The participants 
therefore felt that the next step ~as to provide systematic 
coverage of the rest of Cuba, from which the full story of 
what the USSR had put into the island could be developed .. 
They felt no immediate need for re-coverage of the areas 
covered by the two previous missions. 
c. Finally, the participants were operating in 
the atmosphere of the time. The Cubans had been claiming 
that U.S. invasion was imminent. The Soviet diplomatic 
and propaganda apparatus was attempting to focus attention 
-12-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
Photoo;;,y 
from 
(i;wi, R. faro tlbrary 
