[ 
[ 
[ 
,.. 
8. 
• S,EG;.'.fION 107. SECURIT"Y INFO-RM.ANTS(.AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] 
·Instruct each inte.ted Bureau office which has m. further 
semination of such information to follow the instructions set 
dis­
forth 
above. 
107S - U 
9. Also set up a control file regarding this corrective action, and upon 
_completion of same submit to the Bureau a final letter under the in­
formant ts caption identifying eaoh case by title, character, Bureau file, 
where known, and date of communication. 
10 .. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files to see 
that nec-essary correc·l;i-ve action has been taken in each instance. 
11. If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
the informant should also be requested to submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been madeo 
12~ It is imperatiYe that all information fro~ the informant be correctly 
-labeled and great care must be taken to see that this is done. 
13. Occasionally, an ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of 
the ·information attributed to that individual in the absence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was an informant. 
14. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of t'he Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
T. CLAS'SIFICATJ:ON - 134 
u. CONFIDENTIAL'SOURCES 
1. Definition 
[See page 3 of this section.] 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a, A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem. 
exists, or if typing would be sav-ed, 
b. .Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, "business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnished. 
c, The abbre-viation 11CS 11 may be used in intra-Bureau oom.'llunications 
for confidential source. [Communications relating to espionage and 
foreign nationality matters should in addition have a character 
indicating the country involved; e.g.,]IS - R for Russia.] 
d. When ·a permanent symbol has been assigned to a oonficlentia.l source, 
the 2. bbrevia tion "CS 11 is to a pp.ear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS ffY--000-S. -
e. Symbol numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from 
the series of symbol numbers used for your security and criminal 
informants. 
3. Index 
a. Index cards (3 by 5 inches) like those prepared for informants must 
be made up and filed. as an adjunct to the criminal informant index 
or the security informant index, depending on the type of information 
furnished. 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the symbol index on inform­
ants. 
c, Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
criminal informant index and the security informant index if the 
source furnishes information of value in both types of investiga­
tions. 
4. Ji'ile s 
When active in-vestigation is initiated relative to an individual who 
has potential as a. security confidential source, a 134 classificat1on 
file sbourd be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to develop the individual a.re o.i scontinued. The same procedure should 
be followed concerning racial confidential sources, the classification 
being 137~ Files may be opened on confidential sources in criminal 
ma~ters in a manner identical with that for handling criminal informant 
files in the discretion of tne SAC. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1785 
27-
2-12-60 
