LS 185-6 
4 
·e.l 
usjng dynamite to destroy.statues in the United Nations 
facilities. ST.AFFORD stated that BROWN was attcopting 
to convince he and his brother, J"AY,,-·to involve then­
selves id placing explosives in the United Nations 
Bu.ildin[;', .. the STAFFORD brothers• involveoont bcinC:; that 
of caunin~~a disturbnnce while BTIO~ftl pinced chemicals 
around thG base of the devil type statue on the nain 
floor of ·the United :Nations Building. BROWN further 
discussed alternative methods of getting into the building, 
one of th~ :i::ethodr.:i being the u:::o o:f an indb1.idual in 
n wheel· chair y1ho would sit o.:: c:-:plcsivc!3 to conccnl 
theiu. BROWU :further discussed the possibility of exiting 
out the rear of the Uni tcd !Ia tions facilities which 
BROWN described ns being built :1djacent to or over a 
freeway. DRO'iIN discussed the use .o:f ropes to rappel 
walls and the posnibility of nn escape method wherein 
the fr.c~way v1ould ba reached, and then a passing motorist 
would be flngr:;ect -down. Once the passing motorist s"i:opt.ed, 
a pintol TICUld be shoved in his face and he could be 
forced to take o.n individual or several individuals 
anywher~ they wanted to go. 
LAR..TtY STAFFOn.D adv iscd that DROi'lN clnimad 
that he had co~trncted to destroy statues at the United 
Natio::.1s building and that his orders or contract en.me 
from a retired Colonel or General in the Army. BROWN 
talked about havinG $250 expense money which would be 
used for the purchase of explo~ivcs nnd t~nvel to and 
from Hew Yorl~ Stu te. BUOYiN discussed the f net that 
littla ~oney was needed inasmuch as he had associates 
or friends in route ~o New York, who would provide 
food and lodgin~. 
• L.AimY S'I'AFFOPJ) advised that lli'1m'.'N continued 
to use the- expression "performance" and advised that 
he would travel to m~w York and complete this contract 
assignment whether or not LATIUY and his brother partici­
pated. BROi'/N also discussed the :fact that a :friend 
... 
r , 
NW 38196 Docld:329895~4 P~ge 93 
I -I 
; 
I 
I 
f 
I 
I 
I 
1 -
