! I 
\ I 
covered with mud and he learned later from one of the 
guards in the reception room that both of these· men had 
come from Sierra Haestre where they had been vi'.s'i ting. 
Wiley said he talked to Rosen and there could be no 
question of his identity. (NOTE: In discussing the iden- • 
tity of these individuals with Wiley, it was agreed that a 
possible examination of both cases would be in order since 
a possibility exists that Rosen and the other Communist 
were illegally in Cuba.) 
Following this short period of time in the reception 
room, Wiley was placed in a cell in the jail about 9 x 15 
feet long which contained six bunks and 15 other prisoners. 
Wiley stated that in this cell he met FNU Acosta, a man 
named Costas and Major Gallo :,rartinez vvhom Wiley described 
as the former Adjutant General of Castro~s Army .. 
Wiley stated that after about one hour in the cell, 
the guards came and took him to another room fo·.: interro- . 
gation. On the way to the interrogation room, Wiley stated' 
he saw Jake Rosen an<l the othAr AfnrementionA~ mQp i~ nnP 
o{ t~1c l1,Itc::i..- 0:f.Cices anu. L0tl, St::t:111eu. .i.n h.i.gi1 spi.rits. 
Wiley commented that he had learned later from other pri­
sonsers that Rosen and this other individual had complete 
run of the Headquarters and were allowed to make phone c~:1s 
and Wiley stated that he established through other prisoners 
that Rosen had made at least three phone calls; one to the 
National Hotel, one possibly to the ·united States Embassy 
and one to an unknown private number. Wiley also learned 
that at one of the three numbers Rosen spoke to someone 
for about an hour and apparently this someone was kno1m 
as "Mike." Wiley stated that he also learned that the two 
Communists were seen with Captain Alvarez of G-2 and were 
observed on most friendly terms with Alvarez and were, in 
fact, reported as being arm in arm with Alvarez. One pri­
soner believed that they were talking about Wiley since 
this prisoner overheard the name "Cholly" (ph), the way 
Cubans referred to Wiley's first name Charles. 
According to Wiley, the interrogation was conducted 
by the previously mentioned Alvarez and a Cuban woman who 
claimed that she had been arrested by the FBI recently in 
-21-
NW 50955 Docid:32203889 Page 24 
