l \ 
C 
(. 
b. 
Ce 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
So as to m1n1nu.ze the opportunities for crim;i.nal element's to 
harass Special Agents and their families, ne~xher photographs nor 
biographical sketches of Special Agents should be made available 
6A 
to news media in connection with news releases, announcements, or 
inquiries pertaining to FBI investigations. The sole exception is 
in the case of employees who are killed in line of duty, in which 
instances the release of photographs and biographical data should. 
be coordinated with the Administrative Division and the External 
Affairs Divisiono 
"Multi-Office" news releases 
News releases announcing arrests or other important developments 
in wide-ranging investigations often require close coordination 
and simultaneous release to the press by two or more field officeso 
The External Affairs Division should be consulted before any such 
news release is made, and consideration should be given to the 
question of whether a national news release is merited •. 
National news releases 
As a general rule, national news releases announcing arrests or other 
investigative developments are issued only in exceptional cases 
involving (1) prominent persons, such as well-known business and 
civic leaders, entertainers, athletes, or officials of local, county, 
state, or Federal Government; (2) persons of-national notoriety,. 
such as members of the "Ten Most Wanted Fugitives"; ( 3) persons. 
arrested for crimes that have attracted nationwide intere$t, such 
as prevailed in the 1950 robbery of Brink's Inc., at Boston, • 
Massachusetts, and the 1964 murder of three young civil rights workers 
in Neshoba County, Mississippi; and (4) persons whose crimes have 
international ramifications, such as espionage agents or fugitives 
who have fled abroad. The heads of headquarters and field divisions 
should assure that the essential facts of all such cases; including 
anticipated developments therein, are promptly brought to the atten­
tion of the External Affairs Division on a continuing basis .. 
National news releases generally will be issued in Washington, D. c. 
However, copies will be furnished to all interested field offices so 
that the SACs of those offices can make them available to local news 
media within minutes of their release in Washington. 
SACs should not eA-pand upon the contents of national news releases 
without approval of both the substantive division involved and the 
External Affairs Division. 
ld 
2-27-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1086 
