<.. . • 
Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan 
Re: Burglary of FBI Resident Agency 
Media, Pennsylvania, 3~8-71 
• 
.._ __ --:- - ---~ith respect to the proposed Camden break-in, _it was 
recogntzed ·from the outset that secrecy was imperative-.-both from 
.the· ·standpoint ·of protecting our source who has ·success·fully 
.associated himself to a very close degree· with Grady and, more 
·important, insuring there be no leak· which :would scare off ·Grady 
and his_ group. By memoranda June 28 and July 7, _1971, _we pointed 
out the importance of keeping these plans confidential, it being 
imperative that .there be nc/ dissemihati-on outs·ide .the FBI at .this 
time. It .is SAC Moore's recommendation we not .alert at this time 
any agencies having an interest and/or located in the· Post Office 
Building. This would include General Services Administration, the 
military, se·1ecti ve Service, and Postal .authorities. To do so might 
result in activity which could very ·well alert the alleged • 
perpetrators who are very sensitive to any unusual activity and 
who have the Post Office under surveillance. 
It should be noted the Internal Security Division of the 
iDepartment has requested it be advised of all matters having any 
possible connection with the Berrigan group. None ·of the :Lndividuals 
known to. be planning participation in· the Camden ·break-in are among 
those indicted with Berrigan in the Eastcon case. Nevertheless, :Lt 
appears persons associated with the Berrigan group are involved in 
the planning of the Camden break-in and all seem to. be inextricably 
intertwined in the Berr~gan and Eastcon philosophies. 
It is also noted that in a memorandum dated March 29, _1971, 
the Internal Security Division indicated, in view of the ·interest 
of that Division in those individuals associated with Bas.tcon and 
the Berrigan supporters, they desired the Media case be handled in 
its entirety by the Special Litigation Section of the Internal 
Security Di vision. They also requested that in aa.di tion to 
communications, all prosecutive presentations should be made to the 
Special Lit~gation Section. 
ACTION: In view of the above developments. ·indicating a tentative 
action date for July 25, 1971, it is recommended this matter. be 
presented at this time to the Special Litigation Section well in 
advance of the target date in order that there can be no question 
concerning the propriety of our proposed action. The Bureau 
obviqusly must ·fulfill its· responsibilities in this. case which 
might involve the apprehension of from 15 to 25 individuals ·in the 
commission of the intended break-in of the Post Office. Building. 
In order to preclude as much as possible any unforeseen d·ifficulties, 
CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38321 Docld:32939529 Page 5 -2-
