-6-
Bundy further contended that the President was not considering an assassina-
tion, but rather "what are things going to be like after Castro." * (Bundy, p. 81.) 
Taylor's Testimony 
Taylor testified that he had no recollection of NSAM 100 of the events de­
scribed in the related documents set out above. (Taylor, p. 18.) On the,basis of 
his review of the documents, Taylor testified that "it sounds like purely a political 
** consideration of the sequence of power in Cuba." Taylor emphasized, moreover, 
I 
that"never at any time" did he ~aise the question of of assassination with Parrott, 
I 
I or with anybody else. (Taylor,1 p. 19) 
Parrott's Testimony 
I Parrott, the Special Gro,up Secretary who transmitted the request for the 
I 
I 
NSAM 100 study to the State Dep;artment, testified that the request for a plan re­
flected in his memorandum of October 5, 1961, and the reference in that memorandum 
() to the "contingency that Castr~ would in some way or another be r:emoved from the 
I 
I 
Cuban scene" (described above, ;P• 18), reflected interest in a contingency study 
I 
for Castro's removal, but by means "short of being 
i 
killed." (Parrott, p. 83) 
\ i-,ef h4~ (n:I 
011"-,..,..., 
*Thus, with respect to the desire not to indicate the President's interest in 
the plan requested from the State Department, Bundy testified: 
I 
" ... it was precisely to;insulate the President from ahy false in­
ference that what he wa~ asking abou~ was assassination. It is easy 
to confuse the question; what are things going to be like after 
Castro, with the other question, and we were trying to focus atten­
tion on the information 1 he obviously wanted, which is, what would 
happen if we did do this sort of thing, and not get one .into the 
frame of mind of thinki~g that he was considering doing it." 
(Bundy, p. 81) 
**Taylor said he was puzzled by the wording of NSAM 100 and the related documents 
and stated, "I just cannot tie in the language here with a plausible explanation." 
(Taylor, p. 18) .,. 
mt 50955 Docld: 3242353·9 Page 142 
