13-00000 
f 
- 2 -
0!5 IJ( 
armed with a letter of introduction from theafational Director of the FPCC, 
v{bent Theodore Leg On 6 July the 3 pro- Castro organizations named 
above held a party for Subject and raised $1000 00 for his trip. 
Informant's Contacts in Cuba 
4o Subject will contact several friends in Cuba who are milicianos, one 
of them in Santiago, Oriente Province. They were fellow activists in pro­
Castro organizations in NYC who have returned to Cuba. He also has been 
given (by his Cuban friends) the address of a family whose son is the chauf­
feur of Carlos Rafael Rodriguezo Arrangements have also been made for 
Subject to talk to the American Communist in Habana., Robert Williams. 
Subject, who will be accompanied by his wife on this trip, has been instructed 
by his Cuban superiors to take a camera with him to take pictures of Cuba for 
showing at organizational meetings in NYC. Something similar had been done 
previously by the head of the FPCC on his trip to Cuba in December 1962. The 
note-taking in connection with the photos will be a device enabling Subject to 
record intel information difficult to remember o 
5o I briefed Subject during a two hour pertod using as a guide the attached 
require:µients outline, prepared witl@enry Ki~cher@ SAS/Intel/Requirements, 
and A~ia Potocki, SAS/CI/Sov-Sat. I had also discussed Subject's mission to 
Cuba with SAS/SO/Rodriguez and DC/SAS/EOB. I stressed, as did the FBI 
case officer, that while fully exploiting his militia and other contacts for the 
desired information, he must always be guided by security considerationso 
After an agent role for three years, Subject expressed confidence in his ability Cc 
a carryillg out his mission successfullyo 
6. I should add that I was very cordially received at the NYC FBI office 
and that Mro Schwant was most cooperative. I referred to our memorandum 
to his headquarters indicating that the A~ncy had a world-wide program[!_<> ~1( 
send controlled CP and front penetrations on missions to Cuba, and I expressed 
the hope that this might be only our first J int effort. He agreed wholeheartedly, 
adding that he personally would be particularly happy to cooperate if Subject 
informant should move permanently to Cuba and play the role of resident agent. 
As soon as Subject returns from Cuba Mr. Schwant will let us know and arrange 
for the debriefing. 
, l) (" 
I-- l -_ ~ 
Louis De Santi 
SAS/CI/CP 
Attachment: Herewith 
