S E C R E T 
- 18 -
During the same period, the peripheral reconnaissance flights over 
international waters continued, as did the intensified collection efforts using 
refugees, exiles, and other human sources. 
In reviewing the intelligence activities with respect to Cuba, the Sub­
committee found areas in which criticism is justly due. In other areas, how-
ever, our intelligence did quite well. 
were in the process of being deployed. 
The MRBMs were discovered while they 
The IRBM sites were discovered in a 
very early stage of construction. The IL-28 bombers were discovered while they 
were still in their crates. The MIG-21's were discovered when only one had 
been removed from the shipping container. All these weapon systems were iden-. 
tified, and their locations and performance characteristics spelled out before 
they became operational in a very compressed and limited period of time despite 
adverse weather conditions and the fact that we were penetrating an almost 
completely closed society. 
The SA-2 sites were discovered commencing August 29th, and were credited 
by the intelligence community with becoming operational on a site-by-site basis 
commencing in mid-September. It is certain that these air defense missiles 
had attained an operational capability by October 27th. On that date a U-2 
plane piloted by Major Rudolph Anderson, USAF, was shot down by an SA-2 and 
Major Anderson was killed. 
CIA and military intelligence, by use of their highly developed photo­
graphic cap~bility, were able to give a unique performance in intelligence 
operations. They ultimatelyplaced. in the hands of the President, his advisors 
and United States diplomatic representatives incontrovertible proof of the 
presence of Soviet strategic missiles in Cuba in direct contravention of Soviet 
government assurances. This visual proof unquestionably played a major part 
in the united action of the Organization of .American States and wor.ld accep-
tG.c.-:e of the correctness of our :position. 
mf .~095.~ Docid: :32424109 Page 5:3 
