( 
( 
H .. 
( 
9. 
10. 
~:eel ION 8 7. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS 87G - I-1 
ac~-ty; however, show period of •· invol;ed ·and i.ncl~sive dates 
of informant reports. Summary statements must be statements of 
facts and not conclusions. Information from different sources 
must be reported separately. 
(5) Above instructions do not lessen respqnsibility for reporting 
all pertinent items. 
Administrative data - cover pages 
a. General 
References to following administrative items should be in cover pages 
accompanying reports: 
(1) ADEX, file numbers and titles of other cases, category level, 
security flash notice (FD-165), FD-122~ FD-128, and noninvestigative 
information 
(2) _ In all ADEX cases, FD-305, appropriately filled out, shall be the 
last page of cover pages to annual reports and the last page of cover 
communications to LHMs submitted in lieu of annual reports. (If 
non-symbol informant page is used, FD-305 would be next to last 
page.) 
b. Documentation of reports 
(1) Complete documentation of all reports is required. This also 
applies to LHMs. 
(2) If information necessary for complete documentation is not in sub­
ject's file, review other office files, as needed. If not obtainable, 
so state in cover pages. _ . ! 
(3) Do not conduct extensive investigation to locate sources of back- l 
ground information or to otherwise document background information.. 1 
(4) Office preparing summary report may include information originally l 
obtained by another office but may not have necessary documentation6 \ 
If office preparing report has copies of documents obtained by 
another office and identity of source, date of activity, date 
received, and receiving Agent are known, it is not necessary to 
obtain file number of original. Pertinent documentation, other 
than file number, should be obtained from auxiliary office.-
(5) When report includes references to known subversives who have 
associated with subject, identify source of characterization 
in cover pages without further documentation. 
(6) When it is necessary to obtain thumbnail sketch, place in thumb-
nail sketch file so it will be readily available for future use. 
Channelizing memoranda - destruction of . 
Channelizing memoranda may be destroyed following submission of reports. 
Copies of informant's statements designated for 100 classification files 
of informants may be destroyed when one year old. (See instructions for 
destruction of channelizing memoranda i? MRR, part II, section 3D, item 8.) 
DISSEMINATION OF DATA DEVELOPED IN SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS 
1. Policy 
Proper use of information received is foremost among Bureau 1 s responsibilities. 
Information obtained during investigations should be forwarded to other 
interested agencies in executive branch ur,iless there are compelling reasons 
not to do soo Delimitations· Agreement and Presidential directives provide 
for dissemination to other agencies which have present or potential interest 
information relating to espionage, sabotage, subversive actiyities, and 
related matters. • 
2. Bureau requirements 
All conceivable situations cannot be anticipated, however, following 
instructions pertain to representative situations which occur frequently. 
Basic rule is that security information must be furnished promptly to 
interested agencies in executive branch. Term "interested agency 11 must 
be interpreted in light of reason and common sense. Bring any unusual 
situations to Bureau's attention promptly for consideration. 
45 
4-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 -Page 1945 __ _ 
\ 
I 
