[ 
[ 
. [ 
[ 
' 
l07C-D SECTIO}f 107 •• CURITY INFORl1.ttNTS AND CO~FIDE.li.L SOURCES. 
D. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
Inquiries of discreet nature concerning individual's personal history 
(date and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, health, reliability, 
stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past employments, 
and business connections. Investigation must definitely establish that 
individual can be used without danger of future embarrassme_nt d~e 
to instability or unreliability. Secu~ing background infor~ation from 
individual is not sufficient; his background must be established by 
investigation, including discreet inquiries among persons person~lly 
acquainted with him. 
Check of local credit and arrest records. Submit FD-165 to Identifica­
tion Division to obtain any record he may have and to place stop 
against fingerprints if on file. . 
Review armed services record if applicable. 
Check draft status or status in armed forces reserve. . 
Check domGstic status and, if any marital difficulties, obtain details. 
Persons being considered for use in espionage and foreign nationality 
cases may present special problems which limit scope of investigat·ion. 
(See instructions re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, 
volume IV, of this manual.} However, where practical, cover above i terns. 
Leads must be handled by auxiliary offices within 30 days. Investigation 
must be completed prior to any request to guide, direct, or designate in­
dividual as pctential security informant. 
APPROVAL, IND OCTRDT.li.TI ON, .AND DEVELOPMENT OF PO~ENTI.A.L IN1!'0Rl1A.NTS 
1 ... When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same 
nu.'!lerical sequence seJ,; out in subsection C, and request a.uthori ty to des­
ignate individual as Bureau-approved potential security informant and to 
proceed with development. [Submit by secure teletype (usually Nitel). 
Be brief and concise.] Do not submit on UACB basis. Include physical 
description. 
a. If the indi-vidual is a student, include separate paragraph clearly 
setting forth the number of[extremist]and/or security informants, 
the number of potential [extremist ]and/ or potential security i 11-
form2.nts, and the number cf pane 1 sources curren·l;ly being operated· at 
the particnlar coJlege or university ·l;o which the request pertains. 
2. After designation as Bureau-approved potential security informant, fol­
lowing matters should be made clear to him: 
a. His assistance is strictly voluntary and he is to understand there is 
no coercion or intimidation involved. 
b. He is not and cannot consider himself employee or "undercover Agent" 
of FBI. Seriousness of violating impersona~ion statutes ·must be 
impressed upon him. 
c. His cooperation must be strictly confidential at all times and if 
he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so 
a.d,rise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informan·t 
that his rela.tionship must ?'emain on confidential basis and if he 
violates confidence he will be of no value and by so doing Bureau's 
investigatiYe activity may be jeopardized. If he has special 
problem which would require revealing his assistance to his wife or 
other pertinent individual, this should be ascertained and appropriate 
reco:rn.~endatipn made to Bureau. 
d. If potential informant is connected in any manner wi·i;h labor union, 
inform him that Bureau is not interested in employer-employee rela·tion­
ships as such and is only concerned with obtaining in.formation on 
infiltr?.tion of unions by subversive elements. 
e. If potential informant is stude
0
nt, teacher, or has any similar 
relations with school, college, or university, in initial interview 
and subsequent handling, follow current instructions concerning in­
vestigations on campuses. 
3. Do not interview female potential informants in their homes or apartments 
unless necessary and any such interviews should be conducted by two 
Agents after specific approval of superior in field office responsible 
for development of informants. This instruction is net applicable where 
active inYestigt,.tion has established that potential informant is of good 
charac·l;ar, there is no indication of affiliation with subvarsive groups 
and there will be no cmbarras.sment to Bureau. • 
4 
9-13-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1126 
( 
( 
f 
! I 
l 
I ! i 
i 
I 
