13-00000 
. A1 
1 WASHINGTON POST 
CIA Adn1its 
Worlling to 
Raise Suh 
. By Timothy S. Robinson 
Washlnston Post Stat! Writer 
.. 
I 
The Central Intelligence Agency For example, Gesell was forced to · 
has finally acknowledged publlcly Issue a secret opinion in the case last.~ 
October that even the attorneys in- • that it was "involved" in the Glomar valved still have not been able to 
Explorer's attempts to rats~ a sunken· read. The opinion was issued in that 
Russian sub~arine from the Pacific secret fashion upon direct orders of 
Ocean floor: . . . the U.S. Court of Appeals, which in-
• structed Gesell to accept secret affi- ; . The terse acknowledgement came in · . davits from high~level government of- : 
a court do~Irumt filed in. the U.S. : ficials concerning the case. • 
Court of Appeals •. by the Justice De- ; Public affidavits filed at the time by 
partment two· weeks ago. The docu- ' • former President. Ford's top· national 
ment asked that a suit against the security adviser, Lt .. Gen. Brent Scow­
CIA by a private group concerning croft, said disclosures o( tlie CIA in- , 
volvement or other details. about the the Glom~r's financing be ient back project 'might prompt other nations ' 
to a lower court for further hearings.· offended by the project to retaliate '. 
The filing marks an abrupt change against the United States ... •. ,.; • , 
from the previous position taken· by . S~<iwcroft ·said ·1:hat . ·retaliation ~ 
the Justice Department in the 111- ·might take the. form of '.'strong meas•~ 
month-old case that the mere acknowl- ures" that might "endanger U.S mili-- ' 
edgement of the CIA's involvement in tary and diplomatic personnel and 
the project would be harmful to na- . businessmen overseas." 
• tional security. Although the· CIA's • The federal government had previ-
operation of the project has been re- i ously ackriowledg,ed only th.at the sl:tip 
ported in numerous publications, the was parf of a 1969 classified . U.S .. gov• 
agency has been adamant in its re- ernment' .Project· "to accomplish cer­
fusal to say pu~licly whether.those re- tain secret tasks ii:i furtherance of na• 
ports were true. . tioniiUecurityJibjecti,ies." • 
The case brought by the nonprofit 
Military Audit Project, which . moni• , 
tors spending by the defense and in· • 
telligerice est abashments, has in· 
volved an unprecedented amount· of . 
secret court proceedings as the CIA 
attempted to prove· the need for sec­
recy to U.S. District Court Judge Ger­
hard A. Gesell. The suit seeks the fi• 
nancial details of the Glomar project. 
