.... , .. , 
. . 
-,j,~. ,.J ·: 
, ?:'- . .· . °? SONAL ATTENTION 
. • .· , ..,· LETTER NO. 65-31 UNI•iED STATES D~P~RTMENT OF JuSTICE • 
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
In &ply, Please Refer io 
File No. 
June 2," 1965 -WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535 
(A)-·DOMINICAN SITUATION (:t'J'ATIONALITY GROUP COVERA0E - LATDr 
AMERICA)-- For your information, Bureau has established a Legal Attache 
itfsanto Domingo, Dominican Republic, who has already begun to make a 
valuabfeconfr1btiUon to the over-all efforts of the United States in making 
·c·ertain that the Dominican Republic does not become another Cuba. If tl1e 
• United States succeeds in its efforts to keep communists out of the new 
Dominican coalition government which is in the process of being formed, 
current United States policy in the Dominican Republic could very well 
become the established course of action for all other countries in Latin 
America threatened with communism. 
The responsibilities which have been placed upon the Bureau 
in developing intelligence data in the Dominican Republic, as w.ell as in 
other Latin-American countries, ai:e not only tremendous but"may be the 
heaviest and most far-reaching burden the FBI has ever been asked to 
assume in the intelligence field. To guarantee our complete success, 
teamwork is a must. 
Accordingly, first we must do everything possible to assist 
Legal Attache, Santo Domingo, in his immediate task of developing 
quality sources bf suffici-ent quantity to effect maximum coverage in the 
Dominican Republico • 
In this regard, each office and Legal Attache must furnish 
to the Bureau within five days of the receipt of this letter under the capt~on 
of "DOMSIT" ( code word for "Dominican Situation_n) the following: 
(1) lclentities of any established sources (former or current) 
who are now in the Dominican Republic. 
(2) Persons in Dominican Republic known to personnel of 
your office who appear to have good source potential. 
• - ' -
(3) Identities of.any current security sources (regardless of 
nationality) who.may be available for assignment (temporary or permanent) 
in the Dominican Republ~c if-such is consicl.ered feasible by Legal Attache, • 
Sa,nto Domingo. 
. . . . . 
·Thf,s dociiment is prepared in response to JIOU: 7:equest an~ ~snot for ~i,ssemi-
1ui,tion outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by 
your Committee and, the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person,. 
.~ nei without the. express approvai of tke FBI P. 
:' NW 38326 Docld:329896.27 Page 200 
. .. . 
