AGENT REPORT 
__ ,.. (1 
-------------.. . 
lie, uu 111 thie lorm, ~gg liM J0•l7(C); AK ]61•130; rhe proponcnT ogency i~ rhe Olfice of rh@ AHIUant Chio! 111 St11II 111, 1111nlli91111e11. 
I. NAMf Of :iUD"CT OR TnLC Of INCIOlaNT 2, ~l'ITC :iUDMITTtD 
5 February 1972 
3, CONTROL :iYMDOL OR fllt NUMDtK 
4. REPORT OF FIH0IHOS 
happened in 1966. Source did not mention the discrepancy to John. John 
stated that he had also vean kicked off two or three kasernes in the South, 
and that his name was on record. John mentioned being cti,ught :md interrogated 
on a site in Southern FRG. Source was unable to recall the exact identi­
fication of the agency John claimed to have been interrogated by, but 
mentioned that it was something like MA, MD, MI,· MAD, }IA.I. John said he 
had been released after the interrogation and followed, but that he had 
managed to lose the people who were following him. John mentioned that 
he had paced off Haard Kaserne and knew exactly ~nere and how to get on to 
the kaserne without being detected. Source and John left the Lord Nelson 
at 0300 hours and went to another bar in Dattelno Source thought the name of 
the bar was the Kessin (PHONE.TIC), but was not sure. Upon arriving at the 
Kess in, John said that he had to pick up his p_ay check from the owner of the 
bar and left Source. John and the owner of the bar went into a priYate office 
for about five minutes before John returriedo .The owner of the Kessin also ··-
owned the Lord Nelson and Western. Source and John left the Kessin at 430 
hours and proceeded by taxi to John's apartment, which was located above the 
Western. John stated that if Source did not believe everything that he had 
said, that Source cou.J.d contact an Air Force Security Sergeant and confirm 
everything. John gave Source a slip of paper (EXHIBIT_·_), on which was the 
ne.me of the Security Sergeant, his job title, station, and telephone numberso 
John stated that if Source mentioned or showed the paper to anyone that it 
would get the Security Sergeant into trouble. John also hinted that bodily 
harm might result to Source if the paper got into the wrong hands. John 
gave Source an old US Air Force parka to wear back to the kaserne because it 
was cold and Source's own jacket was light weight. In the pockets of the 
parka were four beer coasters, (EXHIBITS __ , __ , __ , c3nd _), a.nd a 
used streetcar ticket (EXHIBIT_). John arranged another meeting with 
Source for 1700 hours, 5 February 1972, at the Stadtschaenke Bar,. Datteln. 
John gave a slip of paper (EXHIBIT ___ ) to Source with the infoi;,nation for the 
next meeting. John asked Source to obtain any information on Ju.J.ius mentioned 
by VIM, that he could. John mentioned that he had knmm Cristobal Pimentel­
Davilla and asked Source to obtain some C-Rations for him. Source then left 
John and returned to his unit. Source did not believe that he had supplied 
any official information to John, but felt that it was possible that he .. might 
have as he was quite drunk before the evening ended. Source described 
John as follows: Six to six feet one inch tall, weighing 180-190 pounds, 
slight build, black hair with long sideburns, and wore a red shirt with a 
navy blue coat and tie, black shoes, long black overcoat and black fur hat. 
Page 2 of 3 Pages 
S. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION Of SPECIAL AGENT 
HEINZ E. ICKE..1-1.T, 66th iVII Group 
46 
6. SIGNATURE Of SPECIAL AGENT 
~n ~~cfi~ 
NW 38613 Docld:345306-05 Page 3 
