13-00000 
-7- • 
2. I have not resigned my permanent position at Princeton University, as I have 
stated above, and expect to meet my responsibilities at Princeton while also servjAg 
the government I also have a temporary teaching assignment for a twelve week 
period, from January 1 o through March 25, 1994, at the University of California, Los 
Angeles, though I have arranged my schedule in order to be able to attend meetings 
of the Assassination Records Review Board. I have ·a1so arranged a leave from •• 
Princeton for this period. 
3. My !)nly commitment during my service with the government Is to continue In 
my permanent position working for Princeton University, as stated above. 
4. The only commitment that I have after my government service is con~ed.is ' . J . 
to continue my work in the Princeton University Library. I have reeeived no other ··• 
offers for commitment of my services after this assignment is e9ncluded .. 
5. If confirmed, I will continue my service on the Assassination Records Review 
Board for as long as necessary. 
c. Potential Conflicts of Interest 
1. The only financial arrangements that I have maintained are those related to the 
exercise of my duties in the Princeton University Library and as a temporary 
instructor in the Graduate School of Library and Information Science at UCLA this 
coming Winter quarter. • 
2. I do not believe that I have any investments, obligations, liabilities, or other 
relationships which could involve potential conflicts .of interest in the position for 
which I have been nominated. 
3. I do not believe that I have had any business relationship, dealing, or financial 
transaction over the last ten years that could constitute or result in a possible conflict 
of interest in the position for which I have been nominated. 
4. In the past ten years, the only activity in which I have engaged to influence the 
passage, defeat or modification of any legislation or affecting the administration and 
execution of law or public policy, has been to write occasional letters on behalf of 
legislation affecting my chosen professions of research librarianship and archives. 
