FS: 
-41-
diamonds, and Al, what do I do. Go ahead, talk to 
him about diamonds. So I said Oleg, what do you 
mean by diamonds? He said uncut stones for cash. 
I am a Soviet official, I cannot go into a jewelry 
store like you and buy them .. I want diamonds. I'm 
willing to pay a hundred thousand dollars for them. 
I said, ,I said. tell me why, Oleg. And he said, 
"Money, why does anybody want diamonds." I said it's 
a good enough reason. So I said, "Hey, Louis, what 
can we do for Oleg about his diamonds?" And Louis 
said we'll figure something out. And then Oleg said, 
this was at a dinner party up in their house. Hot 
diamonds, he wanted hot, uncut, raw diamonds. So 
he·was serious, he was dead serious. He said he 
would buy them for cash. 
How serious -was he? Did you ever get any for him? 
I 
ML: Well it got this far. We told Uncle Al the next 
morning. I said, "Uncle Al, I got a surprise for 
you. You're gonna have to come up with some hot 
diamonds. A hundred.thousand dollars .worth because 
I promised Oleg that I would get them for him since 
he can't buy them. Oleg wants diamonds. 
11 
__ And I 
said if you can put two and two together maybe this 
guy will defect because-he's talking. about the State 
of Washington. I said but you have to be careful, 
I have to be careful, no? So Al said I'll get you 
the diamonds. You tell him to get the cash ready. 
So Uncle Al went to an underworld source and got 
the diamonds. Uncle Al made a boo-boo and Oleg, the 
day of the exchange I was supposed to make the sale 
in tt:he .. apartment, Oleg was at a sports meet:(.ng in 
Washington,D.C. Uncle Al said, !!I've got to give 
these diamonds back to the underworld or give them 
the cash." I said, "Listen, I told you tomorrow, 
not today, Al. Tomorrow, because. Oleg told us he's 
going to this soccer meeting in Washington, D.C. _ 
Alright whatever the kind of meeting it is. He is 
in Washington, D. C." "Oh is he?" I said, "Yes, 
he is." Right. Anyway, Uncle Al started to panick 
because he was in my house with a hundred thousand 
dollars worth of uncut, hot diamonds. 
FS: By himself? 
ML: By himself, and I was suppose~ to get the cash from 
Oleg. Oleg said on a Thursday and Uncle Al came on 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 274 
