13 00000 ,_ 
k. CIA official cove,:. -
i. Review Board guidelines. CIA "official 
cover" is a means by which a CIA officer can 
operate overseas in the guise of an employee 
of another government agency. In congres­
sional documents, the Review Board released 
general inf~rmation about official cover but 
protected specific details. With regard to exec­
utive branch documents, the CIA convinced the 
Review Board that, while Congress might 
reveal information about official cover, the 
executive branch does not generally reveal 
information about official cover because to 
do so would damage the national security. 
Thus, the Review Board sustained CIA' s 
postponements regarding official cover in 
executive branch documents unless the U.S. 
government had previously officially dis­
closed the information at issue. 
The Review Board inserted the phrase "offi­
cial cover" as substitute language when it 
postponed such information. 
ii. Commentary. The Review Board ini­
tially considered the issue of official cover to 
be an "open secret" that was well-known to 
the public. Thus, they were loathe to withhold 
such obvious information. The CIA, however, 
supported its strong objections in briefings 
and negotiations with the Board, and eventu­
ally convinced the Review Board that the 
harm in releasing information about official 
cover outweighed any additional information 
that assassination researchers might gain from 
knowing details about official cover. 
I. Alias dbcumentation. 
i. Review Board guidelines. CIA employ­
ees and agents use aliases and the CIA cre­
ates documentation to support its employ­
ees' and agents' aliases. The Review Board 
released information that revealed that CIA 
employees and agents used aliases. The 
Board protected specific details about how 
CIA documents particular aliases. 
ii. Commentary. The CIA argued that it 
currently uses alias documentation and that 
aliases are vital to CIA's performance of its 
intelligence operations. The CIA also argued 
. that the Review Board's release of specific 
information about alias documentation 
would not be useful to assassination 
56 
researchers. The Review Board members 
accepted CIA's arguments, primarily because 
they agreed that the public interest in the 
specific details about alias documentation 
was low1The Review Board determined that 
it did not want the CIA to spend a large 
amount of time gathering evidence in sup­
port of postponements that were of low pub­
lic interest and, thus, it did not require the 
CIA to provide evidence in support of every 
postponement relating to alias documenta­
tion. 
m. Foreign intelligence cooperation. 
i. Review Board guidelines. The Review 
Board postponed references to foreign intelli­
gence cooperation with the CIA. 
ii. Commentary. The Review BGard vigor­
ously debated the issue of foreign intelli­
gence cooperation with the CIA and . 
demanded extensive evidence and multiple 
briefings from the CIA on the subject. 
Though in some instances Board members 
judged that the information might add to the 
historical understanding of the assassination, 
the Review Board, with some dissent, deter­
mined that the evidence to postpone the 
information outweighed this potential value. 
n. Human sources in FBI foreign 
counterintelligence (assets). 
i. Review Board guidelines. The Review 
Board evaluated the need to postpone the 
identity of human sources in foreign counter­
intelligence operations on a -case-by-case 
basis. Where the human source was a foreign 
national, the Review Board generally agreed 
to protect the individual's identity unless the 
individual's connection with the FBI was 
already known to the foreign government at 
issue. Where the human source was a United 
States citizen interacting with foreign govern­
ment officials, the Review Board sometimes 
released the identity of the individual if the 
public interest in the name of the asset was 
high. Where the human source was a United 
States citizen interacting with other United 
States citizens, the Review Board tended to 
evaluate the release of the source's name 
more like other domestic informants. 
ii. Commentary. In its position paper, the 
FBI defined "intelligence source" as "any 
