' ! i 
1 
i l 
1 I I 
l 
' l 
l 
I I I 
I l 
' ; 
' -
R. 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
I. 
• SECTION 107. SECURITY INFOR11A.NTS .AND COMFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 107R-I-.T 
SYMBOLS 
1 . .Assigning numbers 
a. All informants should be designated by permanent symbol number of 
which. Bureau -must be advised. Once nu.'llber assigned, it must not be 
subsequently reassigned to any other informant or source. 
b • [.A symbol number designation should be afforded to all individuals 
from the time any step (generally the opening of an informant or 
source file) is taken to develop them as sources or inforrn2,nts.) 
c. Individua.ls to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be a,dv.ised 
of such symbols. 
d. Cover name should be used by informant in signing his ·s_taterrients ·and 
in communications between in.formant and field office . .Advise Bureau 
of co.-er name • 
e. Prefix of symbol number consists of appropriate field office teletype 
abbreviation. Suffix of symbol number will consist of letter 11S" for 
secm.~ity informant; letters "PSI" for potential security informant; 
letters "CS" for confidential source. 
f • .Although source may subsequently furnish information requiring change 
in designation (e.g., from security to criminal or ·l;;o [extremi~t, ]etc.), 
number previously assigned will remain same; however, suffix is to 
be changed to appropriate letter or letters indicating this change 
(NY 000-S to NY 000-C or to NY[OOO-E),J 
[g~ [.An asterisk should not be used to designate certain highly sensitive 
informants or investigative techniques. Do not include asterisk 
in reporting information from such sources.) 
2. Communications - use of symbols 
a • .After Bureau is advised of permanent symbol, in subsequent communica­
tions true name of informant should not be set forth; use symbol 
number. 
b. In all communications after initial letter, Bureau and field office 
file numbers for informant must be set forth. 
c. In communications between offices, follow same procedure. 
d. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) .Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis should be referred to in initial(secure teletype) 
to interested office by true name and symbol number if necessary 
for other division to know identity. [Sµch a teletype should 
not be routed to a Resident .Agency.) Office receiving such 
[teletype ]should make appropriate index cards for "Informants 
and Sources in Other Divisions II inde:x:. Subsequent let·l;ers 
between interested offices may then tdentify individual by symbol 
number only. • • 
(2) Individuals who leave division where they have been furnishing 
inforwAtion and do not plan to return should be immediately 
discontinued, their symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name used in all adminis·l;rati ve 001~respondence. 
(3) If informant is transferred to another office and remains active, 
his identity must still be protected. . 
e. In communications concerning potential security informant when~ 
symbol number is not[used,]name of potential security informant. 
and abbreviation 11PSI 11 shall be used; e.g., 11.Tohn Doe~ PSI." 
f. (Captions of corr,.munications concerning informan·l;s and sources should 
contain a precise character designation to identify the org_anization 
with which ·l;hey are most closely associated or on which they are 
mos-I; capable of furnishing information (i.e.,. Security :t'f..a.tter - . 
Students for a Democratic Society or SM - SDS, Security Matter •• 
Young Socia.list Alliance or SM - YSA, Security Yntter - Communist 
INDEXING 
or SM - C, etc.).) In espionage and foreign nationality matters, 
caption of communication should also show character and country 
designation (i.e., IS - R for Russia. or IS - PO for Poland, etc.). 
Thia facilitates routing at Bureau. 
True names and aliases of all informants, as well as cover name assigned, shall 
be indexed in general office indices as any other name. Index cards should 
show file number of informant, but such terms as "Informant" or "Potential 
N 38321 Qocld:32989529 1769 
11 
9-13-71 
