( ' 
( 
( 
' . 
[ 
[ 
[ 
S 2':TJ.ON' 107 • 
) 
.tITUTY INFORI1PJTTS SOURCES l07S 
8. Instruct each interested Bu~eau office which hac made further dis­
semin-2.tion of such information to folloVI the instructions set forth 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
a 1,ove. 
J.: :~o set up a co- trol file regarding this correctiv-o action, and upon 
c,· ,nletion of s~m:•J submit t(.) the Bureau a final letter undc·r the in­
for~ant Is caption identifying each case by title, character; Bureau file, 
where known, and date of co1:ununi.cation. 
This le·tter v:ill be use<'!. to check all pertinent Burep,u_filcs to see 
that necAssnry correotivc action hun been taken in each instance. 
If necesH;,ry, oJ,;her field offioes which hav-e rece:i.-ved information from 
the info:cmant should also be requ~,si;-::d t; submit summary letto:ca; show­
ing what corrections have been made. 
IJG is ·impera-!;i -v-e tha·t all info:i:nation from the informant be correctly 
labeled :-.n<1 great care must be taken to see that ·this is done. 
Occ~isiono.lly, 2.n ex-inf(lrmant -~hrough his speech, writings, or a.ctions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was ~n 
lnforwant. It is not necessary to g6 back and change the evaluation of· 
the information attributed to that individual in the absence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he v;as an inform:?.nt. 
14. Disscminatio~ of inform~tion from sources ~f questionable reliability 
and. known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the :Manual ,:,f Rules and Regulations. 
T. CLASSIPICATIOH - 134 
U. CONFIDEN'TIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a. A symbol number· may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would. be saved. 
b, Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnishe"d, 
c. The abbreviati.on "CS" may be used in intra-Bureau communic.-.tions 
for confide11tial source;[c.g., "Richarcl Roe, CS. 11) Communications 
relating to espionage and foreign nationality matters ahould in 
addition have a char2.cter indicating the country involved; e.g .• 
IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential source, 
the abbreviation "CS" is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS HY-000-S. 
~. Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from the 
series of numbers used for your security, racial, and criminal 
inform?.nts. 
3. Index 
a, Index cards on for.m I•'D-348 like those prepared for informants must 
be made up and filed as an adjtlnct to the· criminal informant index, 
racial inforrn~1nt index, or the security inf9rmant index, depending on 
the type of information furnished. 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the symbol index on inform-
ants. • 
c. Duplicate confidential Rource ~ards may be maintained with the 
criminal informant index, racial informant index, a-nd the security 
informant index if the source furnishes information of value in these 
types of investigations. 
4. Files 
When active investigation is initiated rela~ive to an individual who 
has potential as a security confidential source, a 134 classification· 
file should be opened and maintained in a ?ending sta~us until efforts 
to de7elap the indivi1ual are discontinued. Files may be opened 
on confidential sourc~s in criminal matters in a manner identical with 
that for handlin~ criminal informant files in the discretion of the 
SAC. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1358 
27 
7-14-64 
u 
I 
I l 
·1 
. , 
i 
