To .• :,lpective Mem.bers Of T~ie 
SECRET ARMY ORGAN.IZATION • 
. The Secret Army Organization is the most active, most completely dedicated and . 
most selective in its mernbership of all the many patriotic organizatioll.s in America. 
We are willing to make any sacrifice fo1:-nar country and we fully expect that some of 
us will have to make th~ ultimate sacrifice before victory is achieved. Our very lives 
depend on each other. There is no place in this organization for bunglers, playboys or 
lukewarm i!onservat\ves. If you join the Secret Army 0-rganization, there might easily 
come a timo that your life would depend on how competently some other member had 
learned his job. .... • ~ 
Unless you are especially well- informed on .the domestic and world political 
situation, it is probable that you have a lot to learn about the present threat our nation 
faces. Unless you have had many years experience in actual underground warfare, 
there is undoubtedly a lot you can learn from the experts in our organization who have 
developed and supervised our training program. 
OUR NATION IS IN Il\:IMEDIA TE DANGER 
\ 
It is possi9.le that· \vithin a very few years, perhaps even within months, our 
nation could be conquered and: enslaved by the communists. To prevent this we must 
know as much as possible about our enemfos. Unless we lmow who they are aiid what 
they are doing we will not succeed in our efforts to maintain a free America. 
THE RESISTANCE MOVEMENT 
In driving an invade;r from your land the resistance involved goes through three 
stages of development. 
1) The Underground Network 
2) Active Guerrilla Warfare 
3) Open or Conventional Warfare 
The conventional warfare stage uses everything in the way of weapons that the 
enemy does but must also have active guerrillas and underground agents working against 
the enemy, too. In tl1e present state of military tactics conventional warfare cannot 
succeed unless these. other two ingredients arc used simultaneously. 
The first step is to form an unr;Icrground network. An act~ve guerrilla system 
must have the support of an underground network of approximately three times its own 
size. This underground must supply the acti¥e guerrilla fighter with supplies, con­
cealment, information, etc. An underground network starts with departments of 
intelligence, security and propaganda in that order. 
!I 
Sabotage, espiona~e, subversion, infiltration, escape and evasion, training, 
clandestine fabrication of supplies, counterfriting enemy documents, recruiting, com­
munications anti propaganda are other· phases of underground activity. Each momher 
of the Secret Army Organization, to be effective,. must h"avc a work i n.g knowlecl6e of 
all these tactics as well as the military tactics more commonly associated with guerrii-
la activities. CO.N , 
NW 38196 Docld:32989574 Page 37 FIDElfl.'Iil.1 .. 
; .Ii 
t 
