• 
Memorandum for Mr. Callahan 
Re: SENSTUDY 1975 
• 
information available they would afford it appropriate security restricted 
to members only, excluding staff, and would not make the information 
public. Subsequent to the hearings, the Committee published its report 
which contained our classified documents right along with the Top Secret 
classifications. Senator Church was not aware of this, appeared surprised 
by it, and stated surely the information must have been declassified. I 
advised him that not by us and it was our information. 
Senator Church was asked whether in his opinion the formation 
of the Select Committee would have any effect on the proliferation of 
committees seeking to obtain testimony from the FBI and it was his opinion 
that this would have a favorable effect. He said he had been in touch with 
other members of the Senate who felt that it was a waste of time to have 
repetitious testimony on the same subject matter before a variety of 
committees and he had the feeling that the other committees would hold off 
until after the SenateSelect Committee completed its hearings. He indicated 
that he could not vouch for what would happen in the House, however, he 
intended to speak to the House leadership in order to try to effect some 
coordinated approach there also, because he was well aware of the large 
number of committees seeking to provide oversight or obtain information 
from the intelligence agencies. • 
A question arose as to the extent. of cooperation with the Committee 
and Senator Church was assured that the FBI would be completely responsive 
subject to certain limitations which would have to be delineated by the 
President in order to protect sensitive sources and information. Senator 
Church indicated that he was going to talk to the President in this regard in 
order to secure his complete cooperation, and it was Senator Church's feeling 
that the Committee should be entitled to answers to any questions they might 
ask without restriction other than, of course, the identities of informants. 
He felt the progress of the Committee would be severely impaired if it were 
necessary to go to Court over such questions to obtain enforcement of their 
right to have access to whatever information they need. 
ACTION: 
Information. 
- 2 -
NW 38296 Docld:32989£28 Page 22 
