13-0000!) 
- 3 -
own judgments without the need for tJ. S. persuasion in the form 
of concrete financial and military aid. Accordingly, the President 
intended to stay home and do his own heavy thinking as to just 
how he can best promote peace -- if this led to trips, then he 
would take trips. If people wanted to come to see him to talk 
about peace or other matters, he would be delighted to receive 
them but there must be something worthwhile to talk about and 
something that will lead in the proper direction. He said that 
during his lifetime the United States had been forced to fight two 
wars because of Germany and that he was not going to allow any 
situation to develop which might lead in that direction again so long 
as he was President. He said he would not be a party to any shilly­
shallying in that direction and that Germany must make up its own 
mind and see which way they intend to go. If it were going to be 
toward deGaulle, then say so. If it were going to be toward the 
United States and its concept of a free world, then say so and prove 
it by putting more effort into their actions in this regard - - more 
effort in the way of more money and more support of United States 
policies. He told Erhard that this was the way he felt and there 
was no point in Erhard trying to play off deGaulle against President 
Johnson nor to try to get Germany in the middle between those two 
nations. The President said that Erhard apparently accepted this 
frank talk and for the rest of the visit never once mentioned deGaulle. 
6. The President then directed that Salinger acquire from 
USIA and CIA a roundup of world reaction as to Erhard's visit. He 
said that if we did not make any money on that deal, we might just 
as well fold-,,up our tent insofar as influencing foreign visitors was 
concerned because he, the President, had really put out and had 
really talked turkey to Erhard - - which was the only way he, the 
President, knew how to talk. He said that ihis administration was 
being criticized for either having no foreign policy or a poor one 
and that he therefore wanted as much publicity as possible on the 
highly favorable aspects of the Erhard visit. (I subsequently had 
a CIA report prepared and forwarded to Salinger on 1 January, 
pointing out that it was an initial report and that. a real reading on 
Ambassadorial and Governmental reactions would be coming along 
