t. 
r 
[ 
[ 
. SECT.ION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS[AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] 107G 
. ( 6) 
( 7) 
( 10) 
(11) 
(12) 
Informants~hould include in the body of t.r statements specific 
dates and places; purpose of the meeting or activity being 
related; identities of speakers and persons present, plus their 
known status in any group; specific activity engaged in by each 
individual present; and comments made by each individual. 
Informant should identify each page at the bottom by affixing 
his code name or code symbol (not his permanent symbol nwnber 
or true name). Any corrections, erasures, changes, or additions 
~hould be similarly identified. 
Agents' names should never appear on any page. 
Informant should refer to himself in the body of the statement 
by his true name and he should use the third person. 
Agent receiving written statement should not make any corrections, 
additions, deletions$ etc., thereto, nor should he place any 
markings thereon, s~ch as his initials, date of receipt from 
informant., permanent symbol number of informant, file numbers, 
indexing symbols, eto. 
Do not block stamp or serialize. Receipt and serialization 
should be recorded on form FD-306 or on a c~annelizing 
memorandum which should contain the applicable i.tems set . 
forth on form FD-306, 
Extraneous ma.terial should be kept to an absolute minimu.>n. 
Informants should leave out such items as: 
(a) Any reference concerning the Director and the Bureau 
(b) References to other documents and statements submitted by 
the informant 
( c) Obvious administrative mate.rial, such as operational 
instructions given by contacting Agent to informant 
These data should be furnished orally by informant to con­
tacting Agent who will record the information in memorandum 
form for the informant file. 
b. F·u.rnished. oralJ.y by informant .. 
( 1) Contacting Agent should promptly reduce information to writing 
( 4) 
(5) 
so that it will be accurately recorded as contemporaneously as 
possible with the making of the oral statement by the informant 
to the Agent. The following items furnished by informant should 
be left out: 
(a) Any reference concerning the Director and the Bureau 
(b) References to other documents and statements submitted by 
the informant 
(c) Obvious administrative material, such as operational 
instructions given by contacting Agent to informant 
These data should. be recorded. in memorandum form for the inform­
ant file.• 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification. 
Date it at J.:;he ·bop ?Tith the date the informant furnishes the 
information to the Agent. Ho other date is desired except the 
date of the meeting or acti-vity which shall be set forth in the 
body of the statement. 
Separate statements should be prepared. for each meeting or each 
separate activity in which informants engage and should be 
dictated by the Agent as if the informant were preparing them 
himself. 
The information, after being reduced to writing, should then be 
read promptly by the informant and acknowledged by him by 
affixing his code name or code symbol on each page. [In espionage 
a~d foreign nationality matters authenticai;ion by informants is 
necessary only where future pros ec-11tion is possible.] 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1801 
11 
2-12-60 
