SECRET 3etsy pal::ner 
Review of Files - Manuel Ray y ~ivero - Volumes I - l~II -.. - ·-~------' -·---------· ---~-------
Volume XVII - September 1964 - ~ebru~3=965 
May 2;1978 
1. Memo dtd 1 Sept 1964, Subject: AMTAUP-2 Production 
"Chief of Reports Comments: It would appear that AMrAUP-2's reporting on 
JURE matters have been generally reliable." 
2, Autonomous Operations - Operating Plan 
Activity: AMBANG 
For the Period: 1 October - 31 December 1964. Total of $75,000 paid 
to effect move of JURE activities from U.S. territory and as a final payment 
to JURE. 
3. Intelli~ence Information Cable, d td 9 Sept 1964 CS 
Source:i~ose Garcia Valdez, aka "Pepe Gatillo"~ 
subject:'-- Plans of JURE leader Manuel Ray niver·o to depart Miami for an 
Undisclosed Location. 
Ray asked Garcia on 9 Sept 64 to take him, St. George and Mirta Borras on 
trip to unspecified destination. To depart on JURE catamaran. 
4. Memo for the Record, dtd 11 Sept 1964 from Alfonso Rodreguez 
On Aug 24, 1964, Rogelio Cisneros called to report his resignation from JTJ?.E. 
Stated Ray incapable of directing both political and military activities. 
Cisneros thinks Raul Chibas will soon also resign. Cisneros said Ray not 
prepared for ill-fated May attempt into Guba and Cisneros thinks Ray had 
believed he could arrange for CIA to take him into Cuba. "Ray is politically 
unformed --- politically that wr..ich he last read". Cisneros further stated 
that he believed Ray had planned his entire return-to-Cuba angle with President 
Kennedy and the presidential elections of November 1964 in mind. According to 
him, Ray planned to make JURE and Ray outstanding liberal and democractic 
exile group with the thought that prior to the 1964 elections, Mr. Kennedy 
would have to do something about Guba, With Kennedy's death, according to 
Cisneros, all of Ray's plans went awrJ. Rodriguez expresses to Cisneros 
that this seems like a far-fetched possibility and Cisneros admits he got 
idea out of thin air, but said theory widely held within Directorate of JURE. 
5. Memo for the Record - draft - dtd 22 Sept 1964 - Alfon~o Rodriguez 
Conclusions ''I recommend we give Ray what he asks and close the JURE books 
~r good. If Ray is succesful in Cuba he will not need our help, if he is 
not, our help won't do much good. 
"He is honest and at least the money will largely be spent for the 
purpose he wants to achief. • 
"Wnatever Ray may ever say, he was treated the way he asked to be 
treated. We have played the ga.r:ie in a manner beyond reproach." 
SECRET 
