( 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
\ -~ 
::,.mr 87. SECURITY INVEST~G.A.Tl~. 87D 
XI. 
XII. 
XIII. 
XIV. 
xv. 
XVI. 
XVII. 
XVIII. 
XVIX. 
xx. 
XXI. 
XXII. 
XXIII. 
2046 
Inform subjects connected with labor unions that Bureau 
is not interested in employee-employer relations and is 
concerned only with obtaining information on infiltra­
tion of labor unions by.subversive elements. 
Furnish no information and make no statements to a 
person being interviewed which might later be used to 
embarrass Bureau. Agents should not allow themselves to 
be interviewed by interviewee or to be planed in a posi­
tion of answering questions instead of asking them. 
Terminate immediately an interview if subject proyes to 
be hostile or uncoonerative on initial contact. 
Exploit a subject•s·knowledge to utmost.if he is found 
_to be willing to furnish information of va.lue. 
Questions asked of a subject being interviewed should 
be so worded as to require an admission or.denial of 
all pertinent items of subversive information developed 
during prior investigation unless to do so wou~d expose 
investigative techniques or security intormants. 
A cordial and friendly attitude alone o~ part of a 
subject should not be construed as evidence of coopera­
tion insofar as potential dangerousness is concerned 
when he fails to admit or furnish substantially same 
subversive information verified through previous inves­
tigation. 
Inform subject that we are interested in interviewing 
him in great detail and'arrange to conduct interviews 
over as extended a period of time as necessary to de­
velop matter fully. Conduct necessary investigation 
or research to verify or add to what is being developed 
on interview. Request information• from other offices· 
or Bureau to assist in interview if needed. 
Reduce information obtained to a signed statement if 
subject willing that this be done. 
Determine willingness to testify to information fur­
nished in possible future Federal proceedings. 
Consider possibility of developing these individuals as 
informants. If possibility is apparent,. pursue matter 
with view to establishing subject as .a reliable source 
in subversive movement with which he·has been connected. 
When no information is developed during course of an 
interview which would affect a subject's status, submit 
results thereof in letter form immediately following 
interview and also i.n next report submitted in case.-
At least one report will be submitted in each case in 
which a subject is interviewed with Bureau authority. 
In case of an individual employed in or holding a 
sensitive position enumerated in 87D 6b (7} (e) IV 
a.bove, results of a·ll interviews must be submitted 
promptly in report[or le~terhead memorandum]form; 
[depending on priority designation,Juntil such time as 
he begins to cooperate as a security i~formant or a 
source. 
Report information regarding subject's admissions of 
his own subversive activities and associations and set 
forth a statement to effect that he did or did not 
furnish information regarding subversive activities· of 
others. 
Report statein9nts of deniai regarding subject's sub- . 
versive ~ctivities developed through prior investigation 
and follow by a brief summary statement of past sub­
versive activity which is being denied by subject. 
41 
2-13-70 
