13-00000 
COPY COPY COPY 
-2-
whatever it might appear to be at a particular time. It 
was also apparent that as , -far as his visit to the United 
States was concerned his primary interest was ''not to get 
a change in the sugar quota or to get a government loan 
but to win support for his policies from American public 
opinion." 
It was this almost slavish subservience to prevail­
ing majority opinion -- the voice of the mob -- rather than 
his naive attitude toward Communism and his obvious lack of 
understanding-of even the most elementary economic principles 
which concerned me most in evaluating what kind of a leader 
he might eventually· turn out to be. That is the reason why 
I spent as much time as.I could trying to emphasize that he 
had the great gift of leadership, but that it was the respon­
sibility of a leader not always,to follow public opinion 
but to help to direct it in the proper channels -- not to 
gi_ve the people what they· think they want at a time of emo­
tional stress but to make them want wh_at they ought to have. 
I pointed rut that it might be very possible that the people 
of Cuba were completely· disillusioned as far as elections 
and representative government were concerned but that this 
placed an even greater responsibility_on him to see that· 
elections were held at the very earliest date, and thereby 
to restore the faith of the people in democratic processes. 
Otherwise, the inevitable result would be the same dictator­
ship against which he and his followers had fought so gal­
lantly. I-used the same argument with regard to freedom of 
the press, the right to a fair trial before an impartial 
court, judge and jury, _and 'on other issues which came up 
during the course of the conversation. In every instance he 
justified his departure from democratic principles on the 
, ground that he was • following the will of the people. I, in 
my turn, tried to impress upon him the fact that while we be­
lieve in majority rule that even a majority can be tyrannous and 
that there are certain individual rights which a majority 
should never have the power to destroy. 
I frankly doubt that I made too much impression 
upon him butte did listen and appeared to be somewhat recep­
tive. I tried to cast my appeal to him primarily· in terms 
of how this place in history· would be affected by the courage 
and statesmanship he displayed at this time. I emphasized that 
the easy thing to cb was to follow the mob, but that the right , 
COP)'." COPY COPY 
