• • 
CG 100-44963 
For the Bureau's information, Sgt. JOSEPH GRUBISIC, 
Intelligence Section, Chicago PD, advised previously that he 
had learned from DAVID STAHL of the Mayor's Office, Chicago, 
that they had received a telephone call, a couple of days ago, 
from one WES POMEROY of the U.S. Attorney General's Office, 
to the effect that the Attorney General wanted the Chicago 
city officials to give every ~onsideratio~ to the granting 
of the permits requested by the Yippies o 
Sgt. GRUBISIC was unable to comment on the feeling 
of the city administration to this request but was of the 
opinion that such permits would not be granted as requested. 
Sgt. GRUBISIC based his opinion on the fact that four repre­
sentatives of the Yippies, from New York City, had gone to 
the office of the Deputy Superintendent of the Chicago PD and 
had requested immunity from arrest for all Yippies during the 
convention for crimes around the possession of narcotics. The 
Yippies stated that any arrest would cause the Yippie community 
to cause large scale riots, and the blame of any riots resulting 
from such arrests would fall on the Chicago PDo 
These representatives of the Yippies were advised 
in no uncertain terms that the laws of the City of Chicago 
would be strictly enforced fairly on all persons and that no 
one would be granted any immunity during this period. 
The Bureau's atmtion is invited to the August 9, 
1968, issue of the "Daily World, n daily publication of the 
Communist Party, USA (CP), wherein an article appeared on page 
one captioned "Rallies Will Ring Demo Convention" written by 
CARYL /DAVIAU, current member!, CJ? of Illinois, in which the 
repo~er indicates that· the /National Mobilization Committee 
to Ed the War in Vietnam,wliich is working around the clock to 
mobi ize demonstrations against the convention, has petitioned 
the Justice Department to investigate the Chicago Police to 
determine if there is any conspiracy to deprive 11us II of our 
full civil libertieso. 
Chicago will continue to.follow these matters 
closely and immediately advise the Bureau, and continue to 
disseminate all information of intelligence collected to 
interested agencies. 
No recommendation is being made nor is Chicago 
involving itself in any plans affecting the issuance of the 
abovemention~d park permit. • 
-2-
~W 38296 Docld:32989550 Page 84 
