13-00000 
. -. 
. 
r 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH - cont'd 
"Things have changed quite a bit," castro declared, "to 
attack or to blockade CUba now would not be easy; we can de-
fend ourselves; we are calm; we know what we have to defend 
ourselves with." Then, in an implied reference to the Soviet 
shipment of strategic missiles to CUba last year, castro de­
clared: "When we hear some of these lackeys of imperialism 
talking so calmly about invading CUba, when it has been only 
one year since the October crisis, they are once more proving 
us right and are once more justifying CUba's taking defensive 
measures; this talk led to the October· crisis." cast~o then 
declared that ''these men are so dec.ei ved by their own propaganda 
that ... they cannot conceive of what any invader would meet here." 
A war aga_inst Cuba, he said, "would not end while there was a 
single mercenai:-y soldier treading on our soil." 
castro then returned· briefly to his vie.ws as to how peace 
can be assured in the caribbean. trWhatever they-want to dis-
cuss with Cuba,"·he said, "let them come and discuss-honestly 
with Cuba.; because we have stated the indispensable prerequisites 
for a peaceful atmosphere .. •. in the caribbean~" • Thus far, how­
ever, "they have answered with aggressions on top of aggressions,'" 
This course, .. h.e said, "is doomed to failure." (CIA FBIS Havana,· 
7 December, Oli'FICIAL USE ONLY) 
CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION: 
A shake-up in the Cuban cabinet has moved Faure Chomon 
Mediavilla to the post of transportation minister; he succeeds 
Capt. Omar Fernandez, whose ministry was recently under attack 
by castro for alleged inefficiencies and "vices." Major Jesus 
Montane Orop.esa is replacing Chomon as communications minister. 
Chomon, who served as Castro's first ambassador to the 
Soviet Union~ took over as communications min:lster in March_ 
1962. He is currently a member of the National Directorate 
of PURS. Fernandez, his predecessor, is reportedly moving to 
an unspecified position in the Ministry of Industries under 
Che _Guevara. 
Montane took part in the attack on the Moncada Barracks 
in 1953 and followed.castro to exile in Mexico. He took part 
in the GRANMA expedition of 1956 when he was captured and im­
prisoned. After the revolution, he reportedly received only 
a minor post in the government because he had talked too much 
in prison. His most recent post, dating from at least August 
1962, has been as number two man in the Tourism Institute 
(INIT). He.is said to be an ardent Marxist-Leninist, who. 
preaches it at every opportunity. (UPI 63, 6 December, UN­
CLASSIFIED; background information: SECRET) 
-3-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
