13-00000 
,I r' 
Ff.TL;, -L .,_ ....,., 
11 March 1993 
NOTE FOR: 
FROM: eter Earnest 
Chief, Media Relations /~--. -~-~ 
SUBJECT: WASHINGTON POST Request to Talk to an Agency 
Specialist on the Kennedy Assassination 
The WASHINGTON POST is preparing a series of articles 
the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the Kennedy 
assassination. 
//Ar:;f 
on// 
With the help of CIC, we recently arranged for Geoi;:ge ;· 
Lardner and Walter Pincus of the WASHINGTON POST to interview . / 
former KGB officer Yuri Nosenko about his knowledge of Lee V 
Harvey Oswald during the time Oswald lived in the Soviet 
Union. To ensure that Nosenko's resettlement identity and 
location would remain protected, I made the arrangements for 
Nosenko to come to Washington for the interview. 
The POST reimbursed Nosenko for expenses and paid him a 
$250 consulting fee. The interview was done on Wednesday, 
3 March, at the POST offices downtown. I did not remain for 
it. Lardner and Pincus also hosted a lunch for Nosenko which 
was attended by Ben Bradlee. Lardner and Pincus were very 
pleased with their session with Nosenko and appreciative of 
our making it possible. I also spoke afterwards with Nosenko 
who said he w~s satisfied with how the interview was 
conducted and with the financial arrangements. 
Shortly after the interview, Lardner faxed me a list of 
the questions that he and Pincus had prepared for themselves 
to use in checking out Nosenko's information. They asked if 
there was anyone at the Agency they could talk to about the 
{ndividuals named. I told them that developing information 
in response tct-their questions would probably take a good 
deal of research arid that I doubted the Agency would be able 
to take on such a task at this time for the POST. However, I 
said I would take it up with the appropriate offices. 
Although I told the POST that I do not believe anyone 
would be willing to undertake research on their questions, 
I'm wondering if there is anyone around who might be 
knowledgeable of Nosenko"s information who would be willing 
to talk with Lardner and Pincus on background based on 
his/her existing knowledge. I think Lardner'and Pincus would 
be grateful for making such a person available even if 
