13-00000 
•. 
SUBJECT: The JFK Declassification Experience 
9. (AIUO) As complicated and frustrating as the 
process was, it wouldn't have worked at all without the on­
site presence of the DO team with their link to DO/IMS and 
the area divisions in Headquarters. Not surprisingly, the 
DO Headquarters tended to use the familiar FOIA standards, 
under which much more information coµld be withheld than was 
defendable under the JFK law. A major part of the JFK story 
was Oswald's trip to Mexico City; it took several months for 
the DO to agree to allow acknowledgment of the existence of 
a station in Mexico City and many more months to release the 
name, pseudo, and tenure of the chief of station -
information, except for the pseudo, long since in the public 
domain. 
10. (AIUO) Another long time d~bate concerned 
acknowledgment of teltap and photo surveillance by the 
Mexico City Station on the Soviet and Cuban embassies and 
consulates - both discussed in open literature but disguised 
as unidentified sensitive source m~terials in th~ Warren 
Commission report, along with a cropped photo and transcripts 
of telephone conversations that came to the station from 
somewhere. One issue, for a long time, was acknowledging 
that the teltaps were station activities. The ARRB insisted 
on nearly total release of Mexico City Station traffic, 
history, personnel, and project approvals because Oswald's 
trip to Mexico City remained one of the most controversial 
conspiracy theory ·aspects of the JFK story. Proof of 
Oswald's presence there, of his contact with the Soviet 
and Cuban embassies and consulates, and the reasons 
therefore, of the station's unfamiliarity with him prio~ 
to the assassination became evident through release of the 
detailed information on the teltap and photo operations. 
11. (AIUO) After the ARRB staff received the Agency 
reviewed material, discussion of the validity of the 
deletions (the ~postponements") occurred. In the early 
stages there was a tendency for the Agency Information Review 
Officers in the directorates to deny rather than release, to 
test using FOIA standards until challenged, then back off. 
In a couple of instances, assertions were made that the 
information that the ARRB said should be released was so 
sensitive that an appeal to the President would be made - but 
it wasn't. The net result of the deny-until-pushed approach 
was an absence of credibility, leading the ARRB to include 
the following statement in its Final Report to the President 
on 30 September 1998: 
