13-00000 
-
. • 
7/(lJ 
-.-
7 • ... •• • ~- r .. ~ ... : l 
,j 
V. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES, EITIIER P08 ITIVE OR NE(!_ATIVE, IN 
T.Im AGENCY'S COVERAGE CAPABILITY, WHICH TOO!C PLACE DURING THE 
PERIOD. 
The initial, significant change effected by the Agency to 
increase and improve its Cuban intelligence coverage capability 
was to QStablish a Cuban Task Force at Headquarters and to 
staff it with experienced intelligence officers. These officers 
were selected from other operating Divisions within the Agency. 
Many of them spoi(e.Spanish and all of them have had extensive 
experience in various intelligence assignments both at Headquarters 
and in the Field. This newly created Task.Force was charged with 
the responsibility to direct, advise, support, and/or coo·rdinate 
all phases of the Agency's intelligence operations directed 
against Cuba. • • 
At the same time, the Ta5k Force Field Station in Miami was 
strengthened considerably with increased numbers of experienced 
staff officers and .facilities for mounting intelligence operations 
against the Cuban target. This concentration of experienced 
personnel into the Cuban Task Force, both at Headquarters and at 
the :Min.mi Field Station, was a positive and significant effoi-t to 
increase the Agency's intelligence coverage capability -·in order 
to sn.tisfactorily fulfill the priority requirements and tasks • 
which had been levied on the Agency as a result of the Communj,st.-• 
takeover in Cuba. 
To further improve our ---~J;agie capability,-. the Agency comnnmica­
tions office set up a special _facili tr in lliami to (intercept 
·Ae1ectronically internal communications) within Cuba. These (inter-2'-f 
cepted ~ommunications)are processed in Miami and then forwarded 
directly to Headquarters, Miami Fi~!d Station,(and to NSA for action 2¥ 
and/ or further dissemination) The LNS~ disseminates to the other • 
members of the intelligence community-the information that has been 
intercepted and processed by this special Agency communication • 
facility. This facility cooperates and coordinates its operations · 
closely with '(NSAJ and is used ~Y NSA)_to assist in the (interception) ·2-4 
of (!nternal communica~ons) in Cuba. l.~ • . , • • 
In addition to setting up within the Agency an organization 
whose primary mission is concerned with all phases of intelligence 
operations directed against Cuba, all other operating Divisions 
within the Agency wdre directed to give top priority attention to 
the development of intelligence operations against· Cuba. This.: has 
resulted in the diversion of certain assets who had the requisite·. 
access to Cuban targets as well as the experience or capnbility. 
