NW 
~. ' !i.:.] •. 
' 
NK 157-2011 i s ,q L ,"rr ( r €.. f? fJ ! s . • • J?:.!=-,-
on ~une 2 7 , 19 7 4 , Mr. SCHUYI:!.~llli~M'"'--""· 
2903 Brook Dr1ve,_Falls Church,'viTg"l.nia,. was interviewed by 
Special Agents of the FBI. He sta~ej he continues his employment 
with the District of Columbia Government, where he checks on and 
takes remedial action concerning sludge buildup where sewage 
pipes enter the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers in the Washington, 
D.C. area. FERRIS related anyone claiming to be an engineer or 
·to acting on behalf of an engineer, may obtain free copies of 
die.grams of water and sewer systems of Washington, D.C. area, 
by contacting Third Floor of the District Building, 12th and 
Pennsylvania Avenues, Washington, D.C. FERRIS denied having 
furnished any such documents to anyone and emphasized that anyone 
could obtain the~e diograms. FERRIS was asked if he had knowledge 
of any plans to disrupt water or sewer sys+-.ems in any major cities 
and he denied knowing of any such plans. On June 30, 1974, FERRIS 
telephonically contacted the FBI and advised Special Agents that 
he desired to provide additional information in connection with 
his interview as conducted on June 27, 1974. He stated that the 
defense plans for the City of Chicago, Illinois, are available on 
request from that Citv Government and that thev show the water and 
sewer systems. FERRIS stated he has maps of Wa.'shington, D.c., water 
and sewer systems which.he uses in his work for the District of 
Columbia, but has never furnished same to any individual or group 
nor has he ever been requested to o~tain this information. 
FERRIS was asked if he had recently had any personal contact 
with persons from out-of-town who share his same political beliefs. 
FERRIS then volunteered he had seen FRANK DR.~GBR earlier in June 
1974. After DRAGER telephoned him at his home, DRAGER requested and 
obtained from FERRIS a list of names and addresses of persons 
described by FERRIS as 
11
patriots". He would not elaborate further 
on this but described DRAGER as a worthless "bragger and fink", who 
was recently arrested in Illinois and was thereafter released on 
personal recognizance whereas ROY FRANKHOUSER, described by FERRIS 
as another patriot, had to post $100,000.00 bond fo·r his release from 
jail. FERRIS stated that DRAGER made no reference to any proposed 
distruction of any city on or about July 4, 1974 and FERRIS denied 
having any such discussion with DRAGER or anyone else. FERRIS stated 
he does not know if DRAGER would participate in any such scheme and 
felt certain that "no right wing patriot" would participate in any 
such act of violence. 
i· 
~ t' 
On July 2, 1974, Mr. JAMES C. ROBERTSON, Director, Engineering' 
and Construction Administration, Department of Environmental Services, 
District of Columbia Government, Room 309, Prudential Building, 
415 12th Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C., was interviewed and it 
Page 624 
