13-00000 
2 
December 1961, when Anatoliy Golitsyn, a KGB defector, predicted that the KGB would 
dispatch false defectors after him to discredit him and confuse Western intelligence 
agencies as part of a massive disinformation campaign. Golitsyn, who had described a 
darkly intentioned monolithic Russian master deception plan and Soviet intelligence 
agencies of brutal efficiency,claimed that Nosenko was the most important of these 
fake defectors and that any Soviet sources who came later and supported Nosenko's 
bona fides would also be false. Golitsyn was wholly believed by Counterintelligence 
Chief James Angleton, who shared Golitsyn's world view. Golitsyn argued that any 
CIA officers who believed Nosenko should be considered as moles themselves. 
Nosenko's first four meetings with the CIA in Geneva in June 1962 produced an 
intelligence bonanza and the two CIA officers (George Kisevalter and Peter Bagley) 
who met with him believed he had conclusively proved his bona fides. During his 
debriefings in 1964, Nosenko provided detailed information about Lee Harvey 
Oswald's stay in the USSR which, he said, had come across his desk routinely as the 
deputy chief of the Second Chief Directorate (SCD) department responsible for 
watching American visitors in the USSR 
With Golitsyn arguing against Nosenko's bona fides, plans were made in March 1964, 
to imprison Nosenko and begin hostile interrogations to find any shift~ in his 
information. On April 2, Deputy Director for Plans Richard Helms and Soviet Division 
Chief David Murphy met with the Deputy U.S. Attorney General and·obtained legal 
approval from the Justice Department to imprison Nosenko _so that he could not 
communicate with his supposed KGB controllers. On April 4, he was imprisoned in an 
attic room in a CIA safe house near Washington. Nosenko was kept in solitary 
confinement, subjected to physical and mental torture, and submitted to hostile 
interrogations from April 4, 1964 to October 27, 1967 first at the safe house and then in a 
specially built cement house in Virginia. Despite over three years of severe treatment, 
Nosenko' s original story remained unchanged, no "confession" was forthcoming, and 
no evidence was produced indicating he was, as Golitsyn still claimed, a fake defector. 
On August 8, 1968, Nosenko was polygraphed for the third time by an Office of 
Security specialist. During the examination, Nosenko was asked whether he had told 
the truth about Oswald and the Kennedy assassination; the polygraph operator found 
only positive responses to the questions. Security Officer Bruce Solie submitted a 
comprehensive report in October 1968 which evaluated all of Nosenko's information, to 
date, and concluded that he was what and who hehad claimed to be all along. After a 
review of his case by the Soviet Division, Nosenko was finally released from CIA 
custody on March 1, 1969 and employed as an independent consultant by the CIA. 
File 4.0.2 Nosenko 
Combs e: \nosenko.wpd 
