I 
' ; 
j 
) 
l I 
' i 
! 
I 
! 
I 
< 
( 
( 
( 
( 
SECTION 107 --1ECURITY INFORVlli.NTS AND CONFID-I.A.L SOURCES. 107H-I-J' 
H. SYMBOLS 
1. Assigning numbers 
a. .All informants should be designated by permanent symbol _number of 
which Bureau must be advised. Once number assigned, it must not be 
subsequently reassigned to any other informant or source. 
b. Potential security informants and confidential sources whose identity 
must be protected may be assigned permanent symbol numbers if they are. 
producing sufficient information to warrant use of such designations. 
c. Individuals to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be advised 
of such symbols. 
d. Cover name should be used by informant in signing his statE!ments. and 
in communications between informant and field office. Advise Bureai..1. 
of cover name. 
e. Prefix of symbol number consists of appropriate field office teletype 
abbreviation. Suffix of symbol number will consist of le_tter 11S 11 for 
security informant; letters "PSI" for potential security informant; 
letters["CS"]for confide-ntial source. 
f. Although source may subsequently furnish information requiring change 
in designat1on (e.g., from security to criminal or to racial> etc.), 
number previously assigned will remain same; however, suffix is to 
be changed to appropriate letter or letters indicating this change 
(NY-000-S to NY-000-C or to NY-000-R). 
2. Communications - use of symbols 
a. After Bureau is advised of permanent symbol, in subsequent co~.munica­
tions true name of informant should not be set forth; use symbol 
number. 
b. In all communications after initial letter, Bureau and Iield office 
file numbers for informant must be set forth. 
c. In corr>.munications between offices, fallow same procedure. 
q. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis should be referred to in initial letter to 
interested office by true name and symbol number if necessary 
for other division to know identity. Office receiving such 
letter should make appropriate index cards for "Informants a·nc. 
Sources in Other Di visions" index. Subsequent letters -b~tween 
interested offices may then identify individual by symbol number 
only. 
{2) Individuals who leave division where they have been furnishing 
information and do not plan to return should be immediately • 
discontinued, their symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name used in all administrative correspondence. 
{3) If informant is transf·erred to another office and remains active., 
his id.entity must still be protected. 
e. In communications concerning potential security informant when a 
symbol number is not assigned, name of potential security informant 
and abbreviation "PSI" shall be used; e.g., "J'ohn Doe, PSI." 
f. In espionage and foreign nationality matters, caption of communica­
tion should also show character and country designation {i.e., IS - R 
for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.). This facilitates routing 
at Bureau. 
I. INDEXING 
True names and aliases of all informants, as weil as cover name assigned, shall 
be indexed in general office indices as any other name. Index cards should 
shoN file number of informant, but such terms as 11Informa.nt 11 or "Potential 
Security Informant!' shall not appear. 
J. INDICES 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol number index 
Are to be kept by SAC, ASAC, or security supervisor consistent with· 
maximum security and best administrative practice 
a. Alphabetical name index 
In all offices maintain card index showing true identities of all 
security informants, potential security informants, and security 
confidential sources. This is to be known as alphabetical name index. 
File cards in alphabetical order, 
11 
9-30-70 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1ti9J 
