(_ 
( 
( 
8. 
SECTION J.:O,. SECURITY INFORM!\.NTS AND CONFI,NTIAL SOURCES. 
Correct, full name 
All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
First date of contact by your office 
107L-M 
If first contact was prior .to September, 1944, names of all 
SAs, SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made· payments 
(5) Tabulation of all payments, broken down as to services and . 
expenses. Although tabulations are not furnished to Depart­
ment, those prepared by you~ office will be reconciled with 
Bureau records. 
(6) Listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
advances 
(7
8
) Date of last contact by your office 
( ) Whether .individual has been contacted by any other office 
b. Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. 
If no contact was made with particular individual, Bureau must be 
so advised. 
c. Where inf.ormant has previously been used and tabulation of payments 
was prepared, information for items (5) through {8) need be given only 
from date of last trial in which individual was used~ 
d. Above information should be submitted separate and apart from cor­
respondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be ad­
dressed to attention of Administrative Division, Voucher Unit. Inter­
divisional correspondence should be addressed to Bureau with copies 
designated for interested offices. 
Receipt of unemployment compensation 
a. At times informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
and become eligible for unemployment compensation. Where un­
employment regulations require listing of all sources of income as 
prerequisite for unemployment compensation and informants and/or 
sources who are being paid by Bureau fail to comply, situation is 
potentially embarrassing. Bureau cannot be placed in position .of 
condoning violation of state law on part of any informant or source. 
Field office must determine from state unemployment compensation 
officials effect of unemp~oyment compensation laws on paid informant~ 
and/or sources. De nding on local requirements, informants and 
sources must be d accordingly. 
b. When paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has knowledge 
of impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and submit 
recommendations to Bureau on UACB basis. At· same time, weigh ser:i.ously 
possible need for informant to apply and accept unemployment compen­
sation to protect his security. Fellow members of s~bversive organi­
zation may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect him· 
to apply. Where state requires notification of Bureau payments to in­
formants that would necessitate disclosure of identity, discontinue 
Bureau payments during period of unemployment compensation benefits. 
[ M. MONTHLY AND G.UARTERLY LETTERS 
[ 1. Submit monthly letter (FD-451, 451a) to Bureau by secure teletype system 
[ (NITEL). Field 'divisions east of the Mississippi inu'st su'bmit this infor-
( mation by the 3rd of each month; field divisions west of the Mississippi 
[ must submit this information by the 7th of each month. Monthly letter 
[ should include· the following: 
[ a. Number of security informants, potential security inforwAnts, con-
[ fidential sources, and panel sources at ·t;he beginning ana, end of each 
[ month also showing the number added and deleted during the month. 
[ b. Number of Agents assigned exclusively to informant and source • 
[ development. 
[ c. Money paid for services and expenses under SAC authority. 
[ d. Statistical accomplishments. 
[ e. Security informant accomplishments. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1718 
17 
3-13-72 
