ScCRET - 10 -
EFC~TS TO P!PROVE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CIA AND FBI 
Efforts by Papich 
U:1der Hoover the!'c ·,-:as little exchange of ideas at the highest levels 
of the CIA and rBI. This 1,as merely Hoover's style. Papich 1:as able 
to get people exchanging ideas at the working level and this ~as done 
1d th Hoover's app:toval. . 
Papich supported CIA innovative approaches to targets of mutual interest 
to both agencies 2.:1d frequently became involved in conflicts with Hoover. 
for such interest a:1d action. When any CIA promoted projects \;ere ap­
proved, the respo:--.sibility was placed on Papich to assure that there 
~ould not be a~y invasion of FBI jurisdiction or violation of agreements. 
For instance, the CIA through the Domestic Operations Division (now the 
Foreign Resources Division) was always- 1 for forei rs in the 
United States to recruit ~s 
ivision recruit without con-
with the Bureau. set up a program and sent it to Hoover 
t·!JJi.citt ~)'.r)i. f~ij1~~.~ g 
importantly, new CIA/FBI relations at the field level were developed. 
Ho·.,ever, Papich was well aware at the time the program was set up that 
if it flapped, Hoover could immediately kill the project. 
Papich also advocated the exchange of lecturers between CIA a.-id FBI to 
give the two agencies some understanding of what the other agency was 
doing. Such an exchange of lecturers and training facilities did not 
come about until about the time that Papich retired. 
Papich also suggested an actual trade of personnel for short periods of 
tir:1e so that personnel from one agency could become fa.uiliar 1;i th the 
\'arious problems that faced personnel from the other agency on the working 
level. This suggestion was never approved while Papich worked for the FBI~ 
Pripich rci tei-ated the fact that he had a very good working relationship 
1•:ith Jim Angleton. He feels that this relationship was probably respon-
sible for the FaI 1 s arrest of the Russian spy Rudolph Abel. Apparently a Savi.et 
agent came to the CIA with information on Able. The FBI was contacted 
concerning the debriefing of this agent, but Hoover wanted nothing to do 
with it. Papich cooperated with Angleton, and the information obtained 
led to Able's arrest and conviction. 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32203861 Page 3 
f t 
