13-00000 
SECRET 
-7-
,. 
into making judgments on operational deployment of manpower such as 
wra t targets are in a country, what are the great power interesU in a 
particular country, what is the operational environment in the country 
i.e., permissive or not, what are the cC™:!r possibilities, what are our 
liaison equities, and what are our needs for regional support from a 
particular country. Tnese explanations are taken aboard by Mr. Snodgrass, 
but he is lookin for somethin else which has less variables in it when, 
in fact, there is no magic formula for etermining how one gets people to 
commit treason. This portion of the meeting ultimately ended on a friendly 
note but left unresolved the question of what was it that Mr. Snodgrass 
really wanted on the issue of manpower allocations and what could CIA tell 
him that we haven't already told him. (ACTION REQUIRED: Mr. Snodgrass 
is currently preoccupied with drafting his report on the House Appropria_­
tions Committee Mark-up of the DDO FY 77 budget. Once this task is 
completed Mr. Chin, OLC, will return to see Mr. Snodgrass and will try • 
to obtain an elaboration of what specifically are the manpower is sues that 
trouble Mr.. Snodgrass. In this context Mr. Chin has been asked to try to 
determine if a review, osition-b - osition of two or three t ical Stations 
within the DDO might give Mr. no grass the insight into manpower allo­
~ations that he is currently seekin 9.) 
9. Comment. In net assessment terms one would have to conclude 
that the 25 May meeting achieved the optimum that could be expected from 
this kind of an encoW1ter. On the one hand the attached briefing book which 
was examined by Mr. Snodgrass was accepted by the latter as a first rate 
product. For this the A gency gets high marks. On the other hand, the 
Management by Objective system, because he can't see the docwnents, 
leaves Mr. Snodgrass frustrated and irritated. This evokes acrimonious 
complaints from Mr. Snodgrass with the end result being that the burden 
for seeking a solution to a problem created by Mr. Snodgrass is place_d on 
.the Agency. • In short, we have ended up where we expected to b~. Put 
another way, there appears to be no prospect for establishing the type of 
dialogue with Mr. Snod • • ests of both arties. 
e are meyitah);y doomed to being in an adversary relationship wi him, 
although it is incumbent on us to continue to minimize, to the extent that 
SECRET 
----·,--. --·-····· 
