1/3-000,00 
/ 
. ; • 
The Honorab\e John M. Deutch 
November 27, 1996 
Page4 
\_ 
c. To the extent that any assassination-related records have b~n 
destroyed by the agency or any agency official, a full and specific 
explanation of the circumstances surrounding the destruction of 
such records. • 
d. The status of remaining work that you can now identify that needs 
to be completed by your agency in order to comply fully with the 
JFK Act, including an identification of the categories of records 
that must be processed and transmitted to the National Archives, a 
description of any additional searches for files that mi,tst-l?e done, 
and the projected date(s} for completion of these tasks. j , 
3. Review Board Interview With Agen:cy Compliance Official (or Officials). 
Shortly after the submission of the agency's written Statement of 
Compliance, we ask that the Agency Compliance Official (as well as any 
persons who helped prepare the agency's initial Statement of 
Compliance) be made available to the Review Board for an interview 
regarding the location of agency assassination records. The interview will 
be used as an opportunity to resolve any Olltstcll1.ciing _qt1~stjons regardir1g _ _ _. 
the agency's search, fucluciing any follow-up tasks to be completed by the 
agency. The Review-Board anticipates that these interviews will be 
conducted in January 1997. 
4. Submission of Final Agency Declaration of Compliance. By July 1, 1997, 
Federal agencies are expected to complete the process of identification, 
location, and declassification of its assassination records at which time 
they should submit to the Review Board a final declaration certifying, 
under oath, their compliance with the provisions pf the JFK Act (the "Final 
Declaration of Compliance"). Because of the volume of CIA records, such 
a "final" statement may not be practicable at that time. However, we do 
expect that CIA will provide a complete status appraisal by July 1, 1997. 
This final declaration shall set forth all of the information initially set forth 
in the initial Statement of Compliance and shall also supplement the initial 
Statement of Compliance by detailing any further st~ps-that were 
conducted by the agency in identifying and locating assassination records. 
The agencies' Final Declarations of Compliance will be included in our 
final report to Congress. 
