A, 
B, 
( 
> 
SEC'!'IO:'.': 107. •~CURJ'.:?Y IlIFORHA"NTS }X!J cmrFIDE.M, SOUR.CF.S 107A - B 
DE:F'INJTI01'IS 
1. Security informant 
Individual actively enga~ad in obtainin, and furnishing current infor­
mation on security matters exclusively for Buroau and whose i&entity 
must be protected, Such person should be a member or attend meetings 
of a subversive organization, such as the Cormnunist Party; or be in 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or eipionage 
activities or intelligence activities in the u~ S. on behalf of foreign 
principal that he is al>le to obtain and does provi_dc current infor­
mation of' value, 
2. Potential security infor~ant 
Individual in a posi·l:;i.on to become acti. ve in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the U, S. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be 
in a position actively to obtidn and furnish current information ·l:;o 
Bureau. 
3. Double agent 
.A specialized type of security informant; a person who 
with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's 
4, Confidential sourpe 
An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes ii, 
to him through his present position, Examples would· 
te1cphone company employees. These individuals make 
on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain an1 furnisL 
available to them. 
SOURCES OF POTENTIAL SECURITY INFORMANTS 
is cooperating 
for both a foreign 
guidance. 
.ormation available 
•• • bankers and 
concerted effort 
• uformation readili 
Informants should be developed on all organizations and individuals that 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown that pote ~ial 
informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal j esti-
gative activity. Live informant coverage depends for the most part up.:,n • 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs. For assistance 
in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested: • • 
1. Evaluation of 
a. C~mplainants in security matters 
b, Persons interviewed in connection with security cases 
c, Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation of party loyalty 
d, Bureau applicants as possible inform~nts 
e, Personal friends and contacts of Special·Agents and other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidential sources, and contacts on con-
tinuous basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
3, Review of reserve index 
4. Ascertain possibilities of reactivating former confidential informants. 
5, Deleted 
6, Review factionalism section of file on Communist Party, USA. 
7. Consultation with present inform~nts regarding indications of disaffection 
on the part of Communist Party members, They, of course, should not be 
informed as to the purpose of the inquiry. 
8, Review of files on communist front organizations looking for individuals 
who have been associated with only one or two fronts· or who attended only 
a few meetings of a front, Such individuals frequently ar<: ; '"'!::i~eni o:t 
communist propensities, yet they have a basis +'~r cu.:.-::i,·::.~.i:::;: t::e 
acquaintance of party members. 
3 
'~--.L3-65 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1596 
