--------------------------,-----,-,-------------------,-------:----sar.---\ 
87C 
e. 
f. 
g. 
h. 
i. 
j. 
\ 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVERS16 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDDa 
there is doubt as to which office should be origin, request FBIHQ to 
designate office of origin. 
Title of communications 
Normally, only one subject should be carried in title of each report 
or LHM and separate reports should be submitted for each subject 
regardless of relationship. However, when reporting virtually 
identical information concerning two related individuals (e.g., travel 
data concerning a husband and wife) an exception can be made and 
single LHM or report submitted. In such cases dual captions should 
be used and an extra copy of communication provided. 
Classification - 100 
Character 
(1) Designation "Subversive Matter" (or abbreviation SM) should be 
used in all cases~ Add organizational affiliation when chief 
group with which subject is connected is under current investigation 
or has approved[characterization.] 
Example: Subversive Matter - C~USA 
Subversive Matter - SWP 
(2) Where meaningful organization affiliation can11ot be shown, 
use caption "Subversive Matter." 
Copies of reports or LHMs 
In all instances furnish four copies to FBIHQ to cover dissemination 
to Department (2) and Secret Service (1). Where it appears dissemination 
will be made to other agencies at FBIHQ level, furnish one additional 
copy for each such agency involved. 
Status 
Carry cases as pending until logical inqu1r1es aimed at resolvihg 
purpose of investigation have been completed. As minimum, case 
should be kept pending until essential background data regarding 
subject has been secured and sufficient information developed to present 
good picture of nature and extent of subversive activities engaged in 
by subject. 
Closing and reopening of cases 
If it is determined that subject's current activities do not involve 
an actual or potential violation of one or more of the statutes 
enumerated in A. 1. above, case should be closed. 
Case may be reopened at a later date if additional information is 
received which indicates subject's subsequent activities involve or 
may result in a violation of the statutes cited in A. lo 
k. Subject traveling abroad (Also see section 105G volume IV, of this 
manual). 
Take following action when information is received that subject of 
current investigation intends to travel abroad or has departed on foreign 
travel (except where travel is of brief duration and is known to be 
for innocuous purpose, such as vacation): . 
(1) Immediately notify FBIHQ of available details concerning travel, 
including places and dates of departure and intended return, 
destination, itinerary, purpose of trip, and pertinent passport 
data. Include full description of subject, including aliases. 
Set out concise resume of available subversive data regarding 
subject. Do not delay advising FBIHQ while developing details 
if time is of essenceo 
14 
9-13-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1822 
) 
... 
; ,, 
) 
I 
I 
I 
l 
I 
l 
l 
)j 
