t • 
• 
'\ 
Approximately 20 minutes after the couple had entered 
the hotel for the second time, SA FLANAGAN, under suitable pretext., 
interviewed the elevator operator, who advised that a couple 
answering the description of Mr. and Mrs. J.AFJ.t"'EE had gotten off 
the elevator at the eighth floor. V) 
. Upon receipt of the information· from SA McGEARY, "'as 
obtained from the cab driver, ~hat the couple were possibly associated 
with the Press.t SA KENOYER contacted the appropriate supervisor and 
was instructed to discontinue the surveillance irt view of the.. 
possibility that the unknown couple were associated with the Press: 
"' 
It was noted in the early stages of the surveillance that 
the individuals involved were extremely surveillance conscious and 
the Agents made every attempt t0 be very discreet. As set forth in 
detail above, the automobiles and Agents involved were rotated as 
much as possible to avoid detection by the persons under surveillance. 
Even though it was apparent to the Agents that the parties under 
surveillance were apparently looking for a tail, it was not felt 
desirable to discontinue tpe surveillance until the couple were 
identified. The i.t"llportance of identifying unkno~m individuals who 
have personal contact with officials of the Soviet establishme.nts \(.,/ 
has been impressed on the Field by the Bureau as a necessary- part of 
the Soviet Intensification Programc 
. On July 10, 1954, SA KENOYER ascertained that the files 
of this office reflect that SAfi JAFFEE of Life magazine on July 6, 
• 1954, discussed with KONSTANTIN G. FEDOSEEV the prospect of having 
dinner together. No definite plans were made for this dinner. The 
files also reflected that J.AFF.EE was residing in Room 877 of the 
Mayflower Hotel, which is the sans floor to 1--inich the u.nknorm couple 
proceeded on the night of July 9, 1954 •. This information was not r fj 
available to the Agents conducting the surveillance on July 9, 1954.
1 
- 4 -
-N:W .. &IB2li_Docld:32989704 Pamu.~60=---------
