( 
PART II 6K 
SECTION 6. PU3LICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
In.eluded in the index may.be individuals in Go~ernment, business, or 
ir.::.ustrv. Do not include law enforcement officers .unless th.ey are. un­
usually· cooperative or furnish special types of in.formati~n. Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and t~wns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. 
Na.int a.in the index where it is available to a11· Agents.. An· index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which reoords can 
be kept. Source of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their _homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and-the card.s wi],.l be 
securely retained in a locked, steel file cabinet. Cards shall b~ 
kept as in the field office. The cards shall pertain onlY, to the 
territory covered; under suqh circumstances there shall be .nQ duplicate 
ca.rds in the ·field office. Cards are to pe delet·ed when ob:SC?lete. 
Index sources of information in the general office index; ·ao J;J.ot remove 
such index cards at the t_ime obsolete cards are delet.~d fr·o.m .. {he s,p.ecia.l 
source of informati_on .index. 
2. Files . ._ 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparatio~_of sources 
of information. , ,. . 
3. Security ·and racial sources. of information ,., ·: . 
Every[six]months a letter of justification shouid be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to .secur~ty an~ racial 
sources of information. For security sources ·of ,inf.ormation; see 
section 107N, item 3b, v.olume IV, of the Manual of .Instructions for 
form to be followed; for racial sources of.information; sei-secti6n 130G, 
item 2b, volume IV, of the Manual of .Instructions.. If the ~s:ecurity 
or racial source of information is not being paid-~n ~ureau authorization 
and is be.ing used regularly~ tlie Agent handling :the source of information 
must dictate a memorandum to the SAC for ·the file ~ontaining the same 
certification ~s to stability and reliability as required by payment 
letters. • • • ,_ 
4. Gifts should not be given to sources since such actio:ris might _·be 
misconst:('.ued. , ... 
L. SAC CONTACTS 
1. 
2. 
3, 
SAC contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, qan 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assistance· to the FBI upon· the request of the SAC •. ·.·:.... -
A complete file review must be made and an FD-9 submi tt.ed on each .·contact 
(file review on spouses, near relatives, or business not necessa·ry .unless 
special circumstances prevail). • 
SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Request this approval by 
letter to the Bureau. captioned "---=--=' SAC Contact." Mark the letter 
for the attention of the Crime Records Division. Use the ~ollowing sub­
headings in the order given: 
a. Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Results of Idsntification Division check 
f. Derogatory information 
g. Recommendation of SAC 
Submit an original and two copies, but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication, If' the SAC contact is 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to the field. If the contact is not approved, a letter is to be submitted 
to the field stating why the individual cannot be used a.s an SAC contact . 
. 7 
9-27-68 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1006 
