1 
SF oo 
STUDENT COMMITTEE FOR T~AVEL TO CUBA 
"The Columbia Owl," weekly student newspaper ,Jf Columbia 
U,1iversity, New Yoi...,k City, December 12 9 1962, issue, page one, 
con.t:iined an article entitled "Students to Visit Cuba During 
Holidays.'' This article stated in part that the Ad Hoc Student 
Committee for Travel to Cuba was formed October 14, 1962, by a 
group of st0dents from New York City universities, the University 
of Wisconsin, Oberlin College and the -University of North Carolina, 
who stated that as students they would like a chance to see and 
evaluate the situation in Cuba for themselves and had received an 
offer of transportation and two wee-ks stay in Cuba from the 
Federation of University Students in Havana, as guests of the 
Federation. The Committee accepted the offer and applied to the 
State Department of the United States for passport validation 
which was refused; however, over fifty students planned to defy 
the State Department ban and go to Cuba. 
A source advis~d on December 6, 1962, it was learned the 
Ad Hoc Student Committee for Travel to Cuba had recen-i:ly been 
formed by the Progressive Labor Group. 
A second source advised on September 13, 1963, that during 
the Summer of 1963, fifty-nine individuals traveled to Cuba; the 
l~aders of the group were members of the Progressive Labor Movement; 
and the trip was planned and organized by Progressive Labor Movement 
members. 
A third source advised on-October 9, 1963, the Student 
Committee for Travel to Cuba was utilizing Post Office Box 2178, 
New York, New York, as its mailing address. 
On March 12, 1965, Philip Abbott Luce, 50~ West 55th Street, 
New York, New York, a self-admitted member of the Student Committee 
for Travel to Cuba Executive Committee and the Progressive Labor 
Movement National Coordinating Committee, advised as follows: 
The Student Cammi ttee for Travel to C;.1ba ( _:.cTC) was forrr;erly 
known as the Ad Hoc Student Committee for Travel to Cuba and the 
Permanent Student Committee for Travel to Cuba. 
Luce was a leader and participant of the 1963 trip to Cuba 
and an organizer of the 1964 trip to Cuba and both trips were 
s~onsored by the SCTC. 
By the Spring of 1964 thi Executive Committee of the SCTC 
was considered to be members of the Progressive Labor Moveme~t. 
No trip to Cuba or C~ina was being planned by the SCTC 
for 1965. 
APPENDIX 
S42 
75 
78 
I 
I 
i 
