13-00000 
Secret 
* The Agency recognizes that there are employees who are 
part of the JFK story (many of their names have already 
been released). We propose that the ARRB staff and HRG 
work together to establish a list of individuals who 
are important to the story. These names would be 
released unless the Agency is able to provide the 
required evidence of current harm. 
This approach would serve both the public's and the Agency's 
interests. It would also allow the Agency to focus its 
resources on completing the review and responding to the 
special requests of the Board, instead of spending an 
inordinate amount of time and money on individuals of 
marginal or no interest to the JFK story. 
(C) [Note: ffliere is also the1Ssue of State Departmentl, 
fequiTles ana-flie impact of officially acknowledging as CIA / 
l~f _?ffi~ers who were under official State cove~_-_]_~) 
------•-· 
Proposed Action 
(AIOU) We have a little over two months to resolve this 
issue and be ready for the ARRB meeting, May 12-13: I 
propose that I set up a meeting with Fred and Linda this 
week. If they agree, then I suggest a memo to the DO and 
the General Counsel presenting the issues. Support from top 
management including a willingness to raise the issue with 
the acting/new DCI and possi~ly the White House is critical 
to success. I see OGC (Linda) being tasked with preparing a 
memo for the Board similar to the one prepared on sources. 
(AIOU) The Board has meetings scheduled for 13-14 
March, 2-3 April and 23-24 April. I recommend that we begin 
discussions with ARRB staff as soon as possible with the 
goal of having the memo ready no later than the 2-3 April 
meeting. We should also be prepared to discuss the issue 
directly with the Board since we are asking them to 
reconsider a decision in which we initially concurred. 
(AIOU) It is important that the DO continue to develop 
evidence on the individuals who are scheduled for review in 
May. The worst possible scenario is not succeeding with the 
new proposal, and not being ready to defend those 
individuals who need protection. 
Attachments: As stated 
Secret 
