13-00000 
• 
..._, .. , 
PAGE 33 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
REP. LATOURETIE:.Thank you for answering my questions. Thank you for your fine 
work. And. thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
REP. : Thank you. I had a couple of questions. I read your testimony as I was 
listening to the other two. I'm sorry I was late. I wanted to ask Mr. Holland; 
were there credible historians who at this point were still questioning the 
assassination in the Warren Commission and the information that came out before 
this commission existed, before these documents came out? 
MR. HOLLAND: Basically, most historians have stayed away from it because they 
regard it as a tar baby. So there are actually surprisingly few. By 
historians, you mean professors at universities. Surprisingly few have written 
about it, because they just see it as a morass, and how are you going to 
possibly figure out what happened? So my answer would be - and, you know, 
credible IS in the eye of the beholder. 
But there's actually remarkably few, and that's one of my arguments is that you 
have to - it is time to insert it back into history. It did happen during the 
Cold War, and that exerted a tremendous influence over what the government did. 
Right after the assassination, it was a precipitating element of the formation 
of the Warren Commission that the Cold War was ongoing, and they worried about 
- to be frank, they worried about congressional committees holding hearings and 
disclosure of sources and methods, such as the fact that Oswald had gone to 
Mexico City and been observed by photographic surveillance, and how was that 
going to be handled by a congressional committee? So I do believe it has to be 
inserted into historical context. That's probably been the element that's been 
missing all this time. 
REP. : So you believe one of the elements of this commission is it'll bring out 
of pulp - pop culture -- pulp culture was a bad choice of words - pop culture 
and in more mainstream because more documents are there, less questions. It can 
now be analyzed. And also, you seem to hint that we'll gain as much, not 
necessarily that there's a lot of new information on the assassination, but that 
we're going to learn a lot about how our government worked and a lot of the 
interrelationships, and that may be, in fact, more use to the historians than 
any questions they had remaining about the assassination. 
MR. HOLLAND: I think -- my own particular view is that besides, you know, being 
an investigation of three crimes - the murder of President Kennedy, the assault 
on Governor Connally and the murder of Officer Tippett (sp), and then the murder 
of Oswald, so four crimes -- the Warren Commission is a fantastic lens to view 
the operation of the government circa 1963-64, because they had an overriding 
mandate. 
But yet they were going up against agencies such as the FBI and CIA with 
