( . [ . 
f 
( 
NW 38321 
i. 
k. 
1. 
m. 
n. 
SECURITY INVESTIG.ATrr,rs 
• 
87B 
Finances 
Special efforts must be made to locate and monitor ban~ accounts 
of organizations. Emphasis must be placed on determining if funds 
are being furnished organizations from foreign sources and if there 
is any rapport between the organizations and organizations in foreign 
countries. 
Support given to or received from CPUS.A or other communist group 
Develop evidence showing support, financial or otherwise, given by 
organization to CPUS.A or other communist .group or received by organi­
z~tion from CPUS.A or other communist group. 
Implementation of CPUSA line or that of other communist group. 
Usually shown through comparison of programs and literature of organi­
zation with those of CPUS.A or other communist group during·any partic-
ular period. • 
Accuracy of identifications 
Use extreme care to assure statements relating to affiliations or 
membership in subversive organizations are accurate in_ all respects., 
Show exact basis, plus corroboration wherever possible, for identifi­
cation of suspected organizations or individuals with information of 
a possible subversive_ nature. -:Hever refer to a_ pe.rs_on as a "knov1n. 
coIJ1;'!lunist11 unless he is publicly known as.· such. • 
Specific requirements for CPUS.A investigations 
Follow previously established reporting format. New York is respon­
sible, in addition to reporting activities of New.York District, for 
investigating and reporting separately on national committee meetings, 
national training schools, and other important national meetings. 
Socialist Workers Party {SWP) and other Y~rxist-Leninist or Trotskyist 
groups 
All offices submit semiannual reports and carry as pending inactive, 
except New York whose report on SHP activities on national basis should 
be designated pending. New York also submit report on local SWP ac­
tivities.· Indicate in cover pages whether all persons identified in 
report as members of SWP or as members of other Marxist-Leninist or 
Trotskyist groups who reside within area covered by reporting office 
are listed in[Administrative Index (ADEX),]or are informants or. 
sources. List any exception by name and show status of investigation 
and state whether name has been furnished Bureau for indexing. 
Data ·concerning above topics can usually ·be secured through following 
sources: confidential informants, incorporation records, bank records, 
literature and publications of organization, newspapers, public meetings 
and rallies, confidential investigative techniques, various public 
records, panel sources, confidential sources and other so.urces of: informa­
tion, interviews with past or present CPUS.A members, review of field office 
files, pretex·t interviews, surveillances, .Agents attending mass -meetings, etc. 
4. Dissemination of information to Secret Service regarding plots against 
President 
On[ll-26-71,]an "Agreement Between the Federal Bureau·of Investigation and 
the[Vnited States]Secret Service Concerning[Protective .Responsibilities"] 
was signed and became effective. This agreement is set out in its entirety 
in section 102, volume IV, of this manual. Agreem~nt provides that FBI, 
in its investigations of organizations whose activities are inimical to 
welfare of U. S., will be alert to and promptly notify Secret Service of 
any information indicating plot against person of the President. It is 
responsibility of Secret Service to initiate necessary action to neutrali~e 
such plot. 
a. Be alert during investigation of organization for information in­
dicating plot against person of President. Upon receipt, immediately 
furnish complete details to nearest office of Secret Servico and 
appropriate local law enforcement agencies and advise Bureau by 
teletype, or telephone if facts warrant, of information furnisl,ed 
and fact it has been so disseminated. Attempt immediately to verify 
information, but do not attempt evaluation of information. 
1913 
i 
i . , 
·i 
I ! I 
. f 
' 
