13-00000 
( 
JOHN R. TUNHETh1 
Minnesota Chief Deputy Attorney General 
102 State Capitol • 
Saitat Paul. MN 55155 
612/296-2351 
. ~-_;:.,: 
11!.JUU..: 
,· ·'-".: 
Jack Tunheim is Chief Deputy Auorn~y Gencral"in the Minnesom J,\uorney 
General's Office - a position he has held since June, 1 ~86. The senior appointed official 
in the Attorney General's Office, he is responsible for supervising and directing all 
operations of che office. with a st:iff of over 200 lawyers a·nd 400 tot:il employees. 
Among his duties arc the supervision of all legal services, including both criminal and 
civil litigation. the recruitment and supervision of the office's lawyers, chairing the 
management team, representing the-governor and other top state officials, working with 
the Legislarure, and handling significant constitutional cases. 
Prior 10 1986. h~s~ry,:d as Minnesota Solicitor General and Manager of the 
Auomey General ·s Public Affairs Litigation Division. He spent .three years in private 
-practice with th~ St. Paul law finn. Oppenheimer. \Volff. Foster. Shepard and Donnelly 
and served as Law Clerk to Sc:nior U.S. District Judge Ead Larson in Minneapolis. He is 
a 1980 cum lauae graduat~ of the Univers1ty of Minnesota Law School where he served· 
as President of tl1c Minnesoca Law Review. He 1s a 1975 .summa cum Laude gr:idu:ue of 
Concordia College in Moorhead. Minnesota. and served from l 97:)-1978 as a Staff 
As-;istant 10 U.S. Senator Hubcn 11. Humphrey. • 
In February. 1994, his nominauon by President Clinton to be a member of the U.S. 
Assassination Records Review Board"(AARB) was confirmed by the U.S. SGnat.e. Tht:. 
AARll is responsible for ensuring and facilitating the review and puhlic disclosure of _ 
govcmrncm records related to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 
He currcnLly teaches federal and state constirurional law ac; au Adjunct Professor of 
Law at the University of Minnesota Law SchooL He has se·rvcd as a visiung lccrure1 at 
the University of Minnesota Law School since 198.5 on the subject of presenting cffcctiv~ 
oral argumems. Jacb: is currently a Mondale Fellow :it the Buben H. Humphrey Institute: 
of Public Affairs at the Univc:rsii.y of Minnc:sot.a. He serves on the 1:Soatd of Directors of - • 
the Minnesota lnstirutc for Legal Education and is a frequent cQntinumg lc~a:1 education 
presenter, with a special focus on t.hc Mmncsot.a Consrirntion. 
