14-00000 
( ~,·r ,-] 
• I ,: ''' 
i:l '•-' j 
( 
4. I reviewed the report from Mexico City station, 27 November, 
advising the number of Soviets in Cuba, indicating that this report which 
we thought was quite responsible more or less verified our own current 
estimates. 
5. Reference the Oswald matter, reviewed with the President 
CAS Mexico City 7127 reporting on the interrogation of Alvarado. We 
briefly discussed the composition of the Review Board announced by 
the President on the 29th. Discussion of the Oswald situation was 
inconclusive and no action required. 
r,; 9~ 6. L]'he President then brought up the question of Pakistan 
and I reviewed briefly the intelligence community's feeling of concern 
and their view that our Pakistan relationship was of the greatest 
importance. Bundy mentioned the forthcoming December meeting 
between Ayub and General Taylor. The President made no comment 
but seemed to feel that Taylor should remain in the United States 
because of serious Defense budget problems. Bundy reviewed the 
great number of commitments we have made to Pakistan and that we 
would come to their defense if India should use our arms to attack 
Pakistan. The President expressed the greatest of confidence in 
Ayub and a feeling that we had not been forceful enough with him, had 
not given him a feeling of confidence in our motives and that he had 
drifted into the thought that we would abandon him in favor of India. 
He stated that he wished this corrected in a most positive manner;:) 
7. I reviewed our Cuban overflight program advising the 
President of the USIB criteria and the extent to which flights were 
being carried on. 
98' 
8. {j..eviewed briefly the TACKLE China overllight and stated 
these had been stood down since the loss of the last plane but we intended 
to resume which the President thought was proper. 
ACTION: I wish flight plans to meet COMOR priority in 
targets for at least two flights for submission to the 
Special Group next Thursda0 
9. '{j_ advised fiif President that the ChiCom-India border flights 
had been completed and that we now planned to brief the Indians, Thailand 
and very possibly Pakistan. I stated the equipment had been withdrawn 
from Takhli.J 
- 2 -
