[ C. 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
10. 
ll. 
12. 
13. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
Investiga:Hon of con>.mlini:,d; petition signers who a:,;-a acquainted with 
Communi;.i·t Party functionaries 
Be alert JGo rece.l ve any sugftestions of plant exeou.-'~:i.ves an(l highly placed 
pers onrLel who arc reliable and ·friendly to the Bu.x-eau concerning members 
of su.bversi ve organizations v1ho might coopera:l;e with the Ilure2,u or employ­
ees who might be willing to inf:iltra·l:;e a subversive organization.. In the 
past such contacts have on occasion resulted in the plant 1 s making avail­
able the services of an employee who already is an informant of the manage­
ment. 
Pe:rsonnel directors in plants frequently 2,re a,ble to advise· of members of 
communist-dominated unions who re·l:;a:i.!1 their me;•1bership ffi(:)l'ely to hold 
their pos:i.tions. 
W:Lt:h rcgci.1d to both 10 and 11 abo-ve, i:f possible, the offic-ia.l should 
sutgest to ·i;he potential informant that he contac-'G the Burea1t rather 
·l:;hai1 ha,·e an Agent orig:i.na·!;e ·i;he con·l:;act. 
After the Bureau. has notified ·1:;he armed forces of a communist iu an indus­
·i;rial plant ha-ving armecl forces contracJ~s, the communist frequently .recants 
when he is informed of ·l:;he charges and is facini the possibili·~y of dis­
missal or tra~sfer to a nonrestrictod position in the same plant. At 
such a time~ officers friendly to the Bureau sometimes suggest that 
the person ad-vise the Bureau. of his past activities. Be alert to take 
ad:rnntage of such cooperation when offered. 
Review of Communist Party registration records to ascertain what individ­
uals merely registered but never :became active 
Use of a reliable ·l:;hird par·i;y- to make the contact with a possible inform­
ant when direct con:b.ct by an .Agent is inadvisable. Request Bureau to 
furnish ·1:;he s er-vices of an individual who is available for such. a contact. 
Offich,ls an3. employees of foreign establishments in ·che u. S. 
Employees of the United Nations Secretariat . 
Con·l:;ac·i;s (business, social, or otherwise) of foreign officia·ls stationed 
in the U. S, 
Indivicluals who because of background, employment, or social status are 
in a position of intelligence interes·I:; to a foreign principal and who 
will undertake intelligence assignments under the guidance of the 
Bureau. (See deseco program, section 105K,6h, -volume IV 5 of this manual.) 
[INTERVIEWS WITH .ARD DEVELOPMENT OF BACKGROUND ON INDIVIDUALS BEING 
CONSIDERED FOR INFORMANT PURPOSES] 
When a decision is m?•:e to consider a particular indi-vidual for informant 
purposes, backgro1J.n0. ~n-vestiga·tion must be conducted. [Extensive background 
inve s.tiga tion shouJ.o :. ot be conducted, however, until the individual has 
been interviewed and :it has been determined he is willing to assist the 
Bureau. Obtain prior Bureau authority to interview whenever the.restrictions 
imposed in section 87D, item ·6b, (7), volume III, : .•.1, section 105K, ite,,1 6b, 
(10), volunie IV, relative to interviews apply. Fh,. _:round investi•<:,,tion 
should)consist of the following: 
l. Check of .field office files for d~rogatory in.t'c:.,1ation 
2. Discree·t canvass of logical informants to ascertain if the[individual] 
is known to[them] 
3. Inquiries of discreet na·ture to obtain information concerning the individ­
ual's personal history (date and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, 
health, reliability, stability, integrity, general reputation, present and 
past empJ.oyments, a,nd business connections. Background investigation mu·s.t 
definitely establish ·!;hat the [individual ]can be utilized without· c,ny 
danger of future. embarrassment due to instability or unreliability. 
Securing background information :from the[individual]is not sufficient; 
[h:i.s]ba0kgroun6.. m1J.st be established by the in-vest:i.gation, (including discreet 
inquiries among persons who are personally acquainted with him.] 
4. Check of local credit and arrest records. Obtain necessary data for 
the completion of an FD-9 form -;,hich should be transmitted to ~1 .. ': Icl,enti­
fication Di-vision to obtain(any]record [he may ha-ve.] 
5. Armed services .;·-:.cord should be reviewed i:f the individual i, ::-eteran. 
6. Check draft sta~us or status in the armed forces reser-ve. 
7. Domestic status and if any marital difficulties all details should be 
obta.i:Q.ed. 
4 
.],0-13-65 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Hi-03 
