13-00000 
.. 
0 
r 
DDO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
_, 
--. 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
provided to the FBI. In accordance with this policy, the following 
categories of DDO assets will be identified to the FBI: DDO per­
sonnel, agents of the Operations Directorate who are either U.S. citizens 
or alien residents, and foreign agents of the Operations -Directorate 
recruited· abroad who come to the United States for operational 
purposes. 
c~ A and Human Sources &f Foreign Intelligence Registered by Other 
U.S; Agencies· 
The Interagency Source Register ( ISR) has been established at head­
quarters to provide for United States Intelligence Board (USIB) agencies 
a centralized record of agents and human sources of_ foreign intelligence. 
A principal purpose of the ISR is to register primacy of interest and 
prevent • multiple recruitment or unintentional duplicate operational use 
of such agents and human sources. It is USIB policy that no individual 
registered in the iSR by one USIB agency will be used for operational pur­
poses by any other USIB agency without the specific -prior approval of the 
agency having primacy of interest. If a DDO element desires to arrange the 
transfer or joint operational use of a registered individual, the ISR-will con­
tact the agency having primacy of interest to determine whether there is a 
willingness to discuss this matter. • 
d Citizens ( or Perso~ Documented as Citizens) of Australia, Canada, the 
United Kingdo)n ( including its Overseas Dependent Te"itories) and 
New Zealand 
( 1) The operational use of citizens of the above-named .. countries ( includ- • 
ing the overseas dependencies of · the U nite'1 Kingdom) -is restricted_ 
by agreements with . the intelligence or security authorities of such _ 
• countries, which require the prior approval of the appropriate liaison 
authority. Such approval will be obtained it the earliest feasible stage • 
of development tfupugh the European Division ( in the case of citizens 
of Canada or the U~ted Kingdom), or through the East Asia Division 
(in the case of Australian or New.Zealand citizens).-· • -
( 2) The above restriction also governs_ the use of . false documentation 
representing DDO staff or agent personnel as citizens of the above­
named countries. Approval for_ the use of such documentation will 
be sought through the same chanO:els as stated in subparagraph ( 1) 
above. 
( 3) Authority to make operational use of the persons or documentation 
described in the above subparagraphs. without obtaining· the prior 
approval of the liaison authority concerned niay be granted only 
by the Deputy Director for Operations or by the Director. 
'1 
SECRET 
., .- .. ·- - .· ··-· --- .•... , .. ···-,····-··· ······.---, ······-··. -· 
