( 
L'J'l'ERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY Page 2__ of -1i.._ 
~ 4\'> ~ ~ .• ···- r7'; ,,-~\ ~ .••. 17"".,,,4·T.'.·.· !·_: ~~ :, ,~ ij ·. -- -_ Pili: '. [ 1 f ' 
CJ •• : . ., . -. • . '., ··-.,.:.;;, 
Cheever confirmed what we'.knew about Harvey. 
Although Cheever worked closely with Harvey, he 
told us that Harvey was a loner and most surely 
would not inform him of operations unless he had 
a "must need to know". In Cheever's opinion, 
Harvey was one of the great believers in compart­
mentalization; Cheever "complained that Harvey 
turned him into his staff man" (as compared to an 
operational extension). Cheever also told us that 
Harvey was a two martini man at lunch with thyroid 
problems; this often "led to problems for Harvey 
at early afternoon meetings". 
Cheever believes he attended at least ten.SGA 
meetings. However~fie·· dde's•riot recall RFK, only 
recalls briefing Bundy. (Maybe Cheever attended 
other than SGA meetings -- the minutes do not re­
flect his attendance.) 
Cheever met we'-i1cc1y ;Itn des ignees of the SGA 
principals in Lansdale's office (Messrs. Califano, 
Haig, Hurwitch, Craig, and Johnson); Cheever would 
brief these designees on proposed operational 
plans; discussion of the details would ensue. 
Subsequent to the staff meetings, the principals 
would meet and decide whether or not the particular 
plan would be approved. Cheever did state that the 
Group often rejected proposals. In one instance, 
Max Taylor vetoed the maritime infiltration of a 
small team. Taylor felt that the chances of success 
were small and attributability great. (Cheever 
agreed with Taylor -- "but it was one of Lansdale's 
brain childs.") 
Cheever told us that "around the Task Force W 
shop it was known that the Kennedys wanted to get 
rid of the Castro regime." In order to get this 
done, "the Kennedys built a fire under the Agency's 
tail and installed Lansdale as Chief of Operations". 
According to Cheever, Lansdale and the SGA were 
"geared to keeping the Kennedys informed as to what 
was happening". 
However, after the Cuban missile crisis, Cuban 
operations were not pursued with the same sense of 
urgency. 
Hlf 50955 Docid:32203749 Page 4 
