6B - D PART II 
-
[ 
c. 
[ 
t 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
f [ 
t 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
4. Each office must submit to the Bureau annual'ly at ie•ast three·· sugge·stions· 
for article.s, identifying the suggested author, and briefly descri·bing 
the natupe of the suggested. article. The a:r-ticle should not be prepared, 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any general or Specific sub­
ject of law enforcement interest, including the following: • 
a. Better investigative or adwinistrative methods and techniques of 
any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI-National 
Academy graduates 
b. Improved or unusual equipment being used 
c. Complicated, unusual, and well-handled cases which are illustrative 
of lan enforcement problems and excellent police work 
d. Deleted • 
e. Police -and firearms training subjects 
f. Crime prevention art-icles • from departments which have taken aggressive 
action to combat juvenile delinquency 
g. Transmit all material to the Bureau under the caption: 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research[(Files and Communications Division)] 
SPEECHES 
L [The speech program·is the personal responsibility of the SAC, and the 
SAC or ASAC should handle principal commitments. If neither available, 
these can be handled by an experienced and well-informed Agent Supervisor 
approved for the commitment by the SAC or ASAC. Good judgment' should 
dictate when a manuscript should be submitted to FBIHQ for approval in 
advance of a speaking eng~gement, particularly in regard to radio and 
television appearances. • . 
2o It is not necessary to advise FBIHQ of each speaking engagemento Each 
office will maintain for a minimum of one year and one regular office 
inspection a control file in connection with acceptances and declinations 
of speech invitationso Each year on January 10th ~nd on July 10th. 
each office will submit to FBIHQ a statistical report of speaking 
commitments handledo This will be divided into engagements by the SAC, 
the ASAC, and other Agent Supervisors; and will. be further subdivided 
into speeGhes as well ~s radio, television, and Career Day appearances 
by these three groups: • 
3. Each office should maintain a speech material file for the use of speakers. 
This should include Law Enforcement Bulletin items, interesting case 
material, magazine articles, research literature, newspaper clippings 
pertaining to law enforcement matters of interest, and items of value in 
connection with public appearances of Bureau representatives. In addition 
to being maintained in current status~ this ?peech material shoutd be 
indexed as to subject matter in the office fileso] 
INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting cases may be: 
a. Requested by the Bureau 
bo Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c. Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
c. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d. Novel investigations of human interest 
3o They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
bo Bureau file number to appear in uppe·r left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d. Accurately • 
e. After a review of the entire file 
fo In chronological or logical ,order, with all dates definite 
g 0 Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
2 
6-27-73 
(, 
i ~ 
,I, 
(_ ' i 
/ 
(. 
( 
