14-00000 
NOTE FOR: 
FROM: 
DATE: 
SUBJECT: 
ADMINISTRATIVE -INTERNAL USE ONLY 
John Pereira @ OCI 
Barry Harrelson @ OCI 
Kathryn I. Oyer @ DI@ DCI 
03110195 08:13:32 AM 
Comments re Assassination Records Review Board's Interpretive 
Regulations 
1. I have reviewed the draft comments prepared for the Agency regarding the AARB's 
interpretive regulations and believe some modifications are in order. 
proposed 
2. First and foremost, the comments regarding Section 1400.2 do not adequately address the concerns previously raised regarding the 
unbridled indusion of categories of records that have nothing to do with JFK's assassination, e.g., organization charts, records schedules, 
filing systems, etc. This section should 
, be fimited to items created by agencies for use in the assassination review. Generic categories. 
of information which stand alone on their merits should be induded. This section is overly broad 
and indusive. (Please see the discussion in my 1 March memoranduRL) Contrary to the proposed 
comment that the intent of this section is "unclear", I think it is eminently dear, and that's the problem. 
I think our concerns would be better served by raising in terms of scope rather than intent Also 
recommend against asking questions such as "Is it the intent_?" Heck, yes! Would suggest wording 
along the lines-• As presently worded, this section would appear to indude._. • 
3. The proposed comment on Section 1400.7 opens the door to all records on a person vice those 
relevant to the assassination inquiries. Do we really want to set ourselves up for the obvious response to the question we are asking? 
There are a number of different points here that need to be darified, all dealing with scope. The board's legitimate concern that all 
records on an individual records be addressed (regardless of how filed, e.g.under another name, pseudonym, etc. ) . And an equally 
legitimate Agency concern that 
1.1 records on an individual when the records themselves are not relevant to the assassination inquiry, 
I i.e. other records on the individual may be), or 2. J that all records on individuals who merely happen 
to be mentioned in a document falling within the scope of the assassination inquiry (but the individuals themselves are not the subject of 
investigation) should not be subsumed within the scope of these 
regulations. 
CC: 
ADMINISTRATIVE -INTERNAL USE ONLY 
