• • A 
107F 
) 
v< 
~ ~ 
SECTION 10',.SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFI-TIAL SOURCES. 
nothing transpired of potential prosecutive value with respect to the 
individual, FD-306 should list the substantive case file number 
or should list subject's name and it will not be necessary to staple 
• a copy of the informant's statement to FD-3060] When informant's 
statement contains references to large number of individuals and/or 
organizations, and exceeds two pages, consider channelizing to sub­
stantive case file only those portions of statement which apply to 
particular individual or organization. Of course, entire statement 
should be filed in informant's subfileo This proced~re should be 
employed unless logical reason dictates otherwiseo When preparing 
lengthy channelizing memoranda reporting material of interest to other 
offices, limit the number of copies prepared for each other such office 
to two. Clearly indicate next to the name of the receiving o·ffice, the 
number of the page containing information pertinent to that office and 
note on cover page that distribution of material to the receiving field 
office files is left to discretion of the receiving officeo If the 
channelizing memorandum includes names of individuals who merely 
attended a meeting or gathering and played no important role, the 
reporting office is to attach to the channelizing memorandum a one-
page memorandum listing the na.rnes of all individuals who were merely 
in attendance and had no important functiono The preparation ar!d 
distribution of the additional copies of the one-page attachment are 
left to the disGretion of the receiving office. . 
g. 1 Pr,ior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, advise trial 
attorney that informant not only furnished information concerning 
instant case but also provided other statements not pertinent to 
case at issue. Trial attorney will thus be prepared in event in­
formant testifies on direct examination or cross-examination that 
he furnished information in addition to his testimony. 
2. Recording written and oral information 
a. Written by informant 
(1) May be in handwriting or hand printing of informant or typed. 
. (2) Original only should be submitted and informants should never 
retain any qopies or notes relating thereto. Continuously 
chec]c informants to see that they do not keep any notes or 
( 3) 
{4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
. • ~~i 
(10) 
. • (11) 
copies. 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identifica­
tion. 
Date when informant prepares statement should be placed at 
top of statement. 
All information obtained by informants regarding each meeting 
or separate activity in which they engage should be sub-
mitted in one statement. • 
Informants should include in statements specific dates and 
places; purpose of meeting or activity being r~lated; iden­
tities of speakers and persons pre sent, plus their known status 
in any group; and specific activity or comments of individuals 
present. • 
Informant should identify statement by affixing his code name 
immediately under +,he last written line on each page. Any cor­
rections, erasures, changes, or additions should be ider-tified 
by informant affixing his code name or initials of his code name. 
Agents' names should never appear on any page. 
Informant should refer to himself in body of statement by his 
true name and use third 0 person. 
Agent receiving written statement should not make any corrections, 
. additions, deletions, etc., or place any markings whatever thereon . 
Do not block stamp or serialize. Receipt and serialization 
should be recorded on form FD-306 or on channelizing memorandum 
containing applicable items set forth on form FD-306. 
{12) • Extraneous material should be kept to absolute minimum. Informants 
sh~uld leave out such items as: 
_ {a) Any reference concerning Director and Bureau 
{b) References to other documents and statements sub1:1itted by 
informo.nt 
.9 
1-14-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 -1147 
