THE WASHINGTON POST Friday, Augu.st 27, 19i6 
•• •• 1_1 '' : ~ 
.. ,!. J' 11 ., .. "' • 1; tit • • ~7 
Smu ge Only lue in Ro,sSeIIi 
It was a grisly end for John Rosselll, fidence, so he came to trust us. ·We I gave' Information, according ·to our 
the dapper, debonair mobster about ;Were the only reporters he would talk sources, which resulted In a grand jury 
town, who had been a familiar figure to. confrontation for Tony Accardo. The 
• • In the glittering night spots of Holly• , So when he vanished last month his . surly mobster took the fifth. But Ac• · 
. wood, Las Vegas and Havana. associates eame to us for help. We cardo grumbled to associates that· he , 
His killers shot or stabbed him In the :were suspicious, of course, that his dis- would pay back Rosselli some day. • • 
stomach. The autopsy Indicates they appearance was linked to the Castro , Rosselli was also. blamed for passing , 
may have shot him and then dug out caper. But our Investigation has now . Information to the government, which ' 
the bullet with a knife. Then they bru- produced evidence to the contrary. . led to the conviction of Detroit mob ; 
tally hacked off his legs. It Is possible . We have learned, for example, that • ster Anthony Zerilli. He is now serving •1 
. that he was still alive when they , Rosselli was not the amiable, retired a four-year sE!ntence at Sandstone fed• l 
stuffed his body into a 55-gallon drum. old duffer he pretended to be. He be- eral penitentiary for racketeering. , 
They wrapped chains around the gan in the big time u a bookkeeper for Perhaps the lut stnw wu Rossem·s r 
drum to weight it down and tossed It Chicago's notorious Al Capone and be- testimony In the Castro C'9& He ldenti- , 
, into Biscayne Bay. The autopsy sug- came a specialist in white-collar fled two mobsters, the1ate Sam Gian- ; 
gests he may have died of asphyxiation '.crimes. It's a profession. apparently, cana and Santo Trafflcante, as being 1 
inside tb.e drum before it hit tb.e wa- • that he never gave up.· involved in the assassination attempts. I 
ter. The gases from tb.e decomposing ! i Competent sources say that, be- It's no secret in the underworld that • 1 
body floated the heavy container to :tween rounds 011 tb.e Florida golf Trafficante detests publicity. • 
the surface. It was discovered, with Its courses, Rosselli was uivcilved in stolen Our sources believe that the Mafia ! 
nightmarish contents, 10 days after : ·securities and financial swindles. His.. bosses finally became with Ros- , 
l • Rosselli had disappeared fro~ b.1111 st~;J. 'operations reportedly •. were resented ii, .sell.· His I execution woul have re-
er's home In Plantation, Fla. by Santo Trafflcante, who bu been ·: quired the approval of the top leaders. ~ 
The police withheld the gruesome Identified in Senate testimony u the our sources say, because it was almost ' 
details of his death while they Mafia chief In Florida. certain to bring the federal govern-
searched for his killers. We began our • Rosselli came to Florida from Lu ment into the case. 
, own investigation, meanwhile, after an .Vegas, where he allegedly represented Who were the vicious killers? The 
appeal from his associates. 'the Chicago mob. our sources say that only clue Is a smudge spot on the win• : 
We first encountered Johnny Ros- he handled milli bling dow of Rosselll's car. One of his assail- k 
sem more than five years ago. We money, which to the ants probably had used a greasy hair • 
were Investigating his role in the Cen- Chicago underworld. There are re- pomade. 
tral Intelligence Age lot to ass.as-ports that Chicago crime lord Tony Ac- ► •-· 
sinate Cuban Pr • Castro. cardo felt he b.ad been short-changed 
. . The CIA case officer, William Harv- by Rosselli. . 
ey, told 'WI that Rosselli had been the . Still earlier, Rosselli spent time in 
1 hero of the abortive adventure. :the slammer, first, for extortion and, 
Harvey broke his oath of secrecy be- : later, for a card swindle. Those who ... 
cause he thought it might help Rossel- know him say he had developed a taste '. 
\ • U, who was in trouble with the law. for the good life. He dressed In the lat- . 
Toe CIA agent bad nothing but praise • . est styles, dined at the best restaurants 
• for Rosselli's daring. . and • dated beautilul women. The 
In the strictest of confidence, Ros- thought of going back to prison, 
sem himself confirmed that he h•d di• • friends say, horrified him. 
rected six assassination attempts To avoid prison, he began to talk: to 
against Castro. W_e protected· b.1111 c~n- the government u early u 1970. He 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 454 
