tl07W - -S.ECTION 107. [INT.ERNAL]S.ECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFID.ENTIAL SOURC.ES; 
[AND FOR.EIGN COUNT.ERINT.ELLIG.ENC.E ASS.ETS] 
"S.ECR.ET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
b. FBIHQ authority 
(1) If FCI asset is of such continuing value to justify regular 
payments, such payments must be approved by FBIHQ. 
(2) When initially requesting regular payment, submit evaluation 
via coded "Nitel" in the following order: 
(a) Amount paid to date, broken down into expenses and 
services 
(b) Number of contacts with handling FBI SA since last 
evaluation 
(c) .Evaluation of stability and reliability 
(d) Concise summary of most valuable information furnished 
since last evaluation 
(e) Miscellaneous - changes in personal status, residence, 
employment, personal problems, etc., since last evaluation 
(f) SAC recommendations for authority to pay asset for next 
six-month period; specify amount to be authorized for 
services and amount for expenses 
(3) Continuation request should be made two weeks in advance of 
expiration of authority. 
(4) Submit an interim request for increase in regular payments 
authorized via coded "Nitel," with full justification. 
c. Receipts 
Wh~n payments are made either on SAC authority or FBIHQ authority, 
obtain receipts whenever possible. If receipt cannot be obtained, 
set forth circumstances on blue slip at time reimbursement is claimed. 
(1) Receipts should be self-sufficient so that, if it becomes 
necessary to introduce receipts in evidence, they will not 
relate to other documents or files. 
(2) Receipts should show: 
(a) Date when payment was m~de 
(b) Period for which made when asset is paid on period basis 
(c) Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for 
services and expenses 
(d) Name of FBI SA making payment 
(e) Signature of asset receiving money using pseudonym assigned 
(3) Receipts are not to be witnessed. 
(4) If necessary to make GOrrections on receipts, they must be 
initialed by asset and not by FBI SA. 
(5) When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses 
to FBIHQ, staple them directly to blue slip so that all infor­
mation on receipt can be read without detaching it from blue 
slip. 
27. Evaluation of FCI assets 
[ 
a. OA 
Whether OA is paid (under either FBIHQ or SAC authority) or unpaid, 
submit coded "Nitel" every six months evaluating OA according to th~ 
format of 26. bo (2)o If the OA has been paid during the preceding 
six-month period, merely set out the amount paid during that period 
(under 26. b. (2) (a)). 
11S.ECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
36 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1181 
• 
• 
• I I 
I 
:1 
