SECRET 
SECRECY AGREEXENT 
1. I., .JOH~ M~ 'vVHJTTEN, llllderstand that by virtu·e of Dty duties in the 
Central Intelligence Group., I may be the recipient of information and intelligence 
which concerns the present and future security of the United States and which be­
lo_ngs ~to the United States. Thi-s information and intelligence, ·together with the 
methods of collecting .and handling it, are classifi.ed according to standards set 
in the S"tc!,te., War, and Navy Departments. I have read and understand the pro­
visions of the Act ·of Congress of June 15, 1917 (Espionage Act), as amended, 
concerning the disclosure of information relating to the National Defense aid I 
am familiar with the penalties provided for violation. thereof. • . . 
2. I agree that I do not now, nor shall I ever possess any right, interest, 
ti tl.Ei or. claim in or to any of the information or intelligence or the methods of 
collecting or handling of it which has come or shal:L come .to my attention b~r 
virtue of my connection with the Central Intelligence Group, but shall amays 
recognize the property right of the United States of America in and 1D such 
matters. 
3. :t do sol·emnl.y swear that I will never divulge, publish nor reveal either 
by word, conduct, or by any other means such classified information, intelligence 
or knowledge, except in the perfonnance of ur:, official duties and in acoordance 
with the laws of the United States, unless specifica11¥ authorized in writing in~. 
each case by the ·Director of .Central. Intelligence • 
. .: '. 4-. I understand that no change in my assignment or employment- will relieve 
~e of my obligation under this oath and that the provisions of. this oath will 
rsmain binding upon me even after the termination of ur:, services with the United 
State(!~ , 
5. I understand that my employment by the Central Intelligence Group is 
conditioned upon my understanding of and strict compliance with "Security 
Regulations CIG, 11 and the appendices thereto. 
6. I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose 
~f avasion. l 
In witness whereof I have set my hand ·and seal this :;)';:(_~d.t!zy" of /iUC::-UST 19lf-';l 
SECRET 
(711) 
