NW 
• 
Presentation to a Federal Grand Jury, Washington,· Do C., 
commenced 3/10/67 but the grand jury is available to hear this case 
·only on Fridayso Additional witnesses are appearing 3/17/67 and it • 
is anticipated further testimony will be given the grand jury 3/24/67 
and possibly 3/31/67. • • 
. Brandon Alvey, the trfal attorney handling this case, .has 
desc.ribed the Bureau's investigation as outstanding and said he has 
never before seen so much good information gathered in such a short 
time. Alvey states that if there was a statute making it a violation to 
bomb diplomatic establishments in the United States, the evidence now 
• available would support a conspiracy convictiono . There is no such • 
statute; however, the statute the _Department considers. most applicable 
(Section 956, Title ·18) makes it a violation to conspire in the United States 
• to damage property owned b~ a foreign government in a foreign country. 
. To· successfully prosecute under Section 956, it must be· 
proven that the conspiracy originated in the United Stateso No violation· 
would exist if the conspiracy originated in Canada even if subsequent 
discussions and other overt acts occurred in the United States. It is 
• unlikely that this point can be established unless a confession ·is obtained 
from one of the conspirators. Alvey is making every effort to develop • 
the necessary evidence on this point in examining witnesses before the 
grand jury and.has laid the groundwork for possibly forcing testimony 
from one or more prime suspects by offering immunity coupled with 
a threat of contempt proceedings. if testimony is withheld. 
Trial attorney Alvey 9-as indicated the grand jury is 
enthusiastic but he does not expect to obtain a true bill unless additional 
evidence is developed to prove the conspiracy to bomb the <;:anadian 
establishments originated in the United Stateso We are vigorously 
pursuing all logical possibilities to develop such information by , . 
continuing investigationo 
-
3 
Page 652 
