14-00000 
Assassinations (HSCA) . 1 The HSCA brought together in one 
place in 1978 the principal documents retrieved over the 
course of years from earlier investigations, including the 
Warren Commission, the Rockefeller Commission, and the 
Church Committee. 
The Warren Commission in 1963 and 1964 was the first 
major review of the JFK Assassination. Existing records 
suggest that CIA provided roughly 4,000 pages of 
documentation to the Warren Commission review, plus 
testimony by Richard Helms and John McCone. The Warren 
Commission pursued matters related primarily to events and 
actions directly associated with the assassination event, 
including materials from CIA's Mexico City Station, which 
were considered relevant because of a visit to Mexico City 
by Lee Harvey Oswald shortly before the assassination. 
The Rockefeller Commission in 1975 and Church Committee 
investigation in 1975 and 1976 were focused on allegations 
of wrongdoing by the CIA. Nonetheless, as a part of these 
investigations they yielded information which, to many, 
appeared to relate in some way to the assassination, such as 
an operational capability or willingness to consider 
assassination as an intelligence method. 
} From 1976 through 1979 the House Select Committee on 
Assassinations (HSCA) pursued additional leads, generating 
sti-11 further documentation. The HSCA ultimately brought 
together within its broad scope of investigation many of the 
documents from the Warren Commission, the Rockefeller 
Commission and the Church Committee. This collection 
ultimately became the uHSCA sequestered collection," which 
altogether contains an equivalent of over 300,000 pages, in 
paper, photographs, tapes, and microfilm media, including 
duplicates. Because the myriad conspiracy theories included 
possible Soviet, Cuban, Mafia or right-wing American 
involvement, the scope of· the HSCA investigation included 
anything or anyone that might appear to support those 
theories, including historical institutional behavior 
patterns. Further, although this sequestered collection was 
considered to be CIA's, it contains documents from other 
agencies, primarily the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
(FBI) and over 30,000 pages of HSCA originated material. 
1 
The HSCA sequestered collection reflects the major corpus of CIA material or 
information reviewed by the House Select Committee on Assassinations (or to 
which they had access) during the 1976-1979 time frame. The pulling together 
of this collection was coordinated by the Committee and they defined what it was 
to include. This Collection has been physically held by CIA since 1979, 
although CIA was not authorized access until 1992, when permission was.given by 
Congress to review the material in preparation for responding to the JFK Act. 
2 
