mt 50955 
assassination, either explicitly or implicitly as a result of pressure 
they exerted in the anti-Castro effort: 
"'l'he Chairman: Based upon that acquaintanceship, do you 
believe, under any of the circumstances that occurred 
during that whole period, either one of them wouJ.d have 
authorized the assassination of Fidel Castro?" 
"Mr. Bundy: I most emphatically do not . . . .If you have 
heard testimony that there was pressure to do something 
about Cuba, there was. There was an effort, both from the 
President in his style and from the Attorney General in 
his style to keep the government active in looking for 
ways to weaken the Cuban regime. There was. But if you, 
as I understand it, and not even those who pressed the 
matter most closely as having essentially been inspired 
by the White House can tell you that anyone ever said to 
them, go and kill anyone. 
Let me say one other thing about these two men, and 
that is that there was something that they really wanted done, 
they did not leave people in doubt, so that on the one 
hand, I would say about their character, their purposes, 
and their nature and the way they confronted international 
affairs that I find it incredible that they would have 
ordered or authorized explicitly or implicitly an assassi­
nation of Castro. I also feel that if, contrary to every­
thing that I know about their character, they had had such a 
decision and such a purpose, people would not have been in 
any doubt about it." (Tr. 98-99) . 
Bundy was asked "have you any way to explain to the Com­
mittee, as to why Mr. Helms would testify that he ... had no doubts, 
that the Agency was fully authorized to proceed to not only develop 
schemes, but to engage in active attempts to assassinate Castro?" 
Bundy replied: "I have no explanation of that." (Bundy, pp. 99-100) • 
Bundy further testified t~at despite the extreme sense of 
urgency that arose during the Cuban Missile Crisis, Castro's assassi­
nation was never discussed, and it was 
11
tot&lly inconsistent" with the 
policies and actions taken by the President and Robert Kennedy in th~t 
Docld:32423539 
