..,. ( 't ., 
25. Prosclb - Protection of Strategic Air Comraand and inter­
continental ballistic misoile bases of the u,.s., M.r Force ... 
26. Revolutionary Activities - Violence - Periodic reports 
appraising potential dangerousness of the various 
.revolutionary groups. 
27. Security Inde::r - Lint of individuals who were believed to be 
da..~gerous to the intern~l security of the u.s. during 
times of emergency. 
28.. Security Inforr-mnt - Develop:mant of sources t:.o provide in"tclli­
gence and evidentiary information concerning security matters. 
29. Security of Special i.\gent Personnel - Cormn.unication to all officeG 
dated September 11, 1973, alerting field to infoJ:I11ation that 
revolutionary and c~trcmiot activists and organizations have 
instituted a progr~.m of collecting intelligence data against law 
0.nforcemcnt personnel and agencies. It directed field to 
advioa FBI Hc~dquartcrs i:f: informo.tion c1evolopcd that such orgQ,n­
izations ?.nd individuals are actively engaged in confrontation 
and harassment of FDI: personnel. 
30. Speotar - (Special Turget for Informant Development) -
Development of quality informants to penetrate revolutionary 
und0rground .. 
31. Stop Inde~ Program on Adr:'linistrative Index Subjects -
Placing Ade::g: Category 1 individuals in the 0 stop indexn 
operated by the Cowg~ter Systezns Division in order to promptly 
tletermine inquiries received from local. police concerning ouch 
subjects,. 
32. Underground T:1ewspapcrs - Collection of copies of various 
revolutionary nm,spapers. 
33. Vencercmos Brigade - Individuals subjected to background 
investigation with view toward dotermining possible Adex 
inclusion and analysis to determine whether or not subject 
could be targeted against hostile intelligence agencies. 
34. Heathe:rman Fugitive (WC'Hltherfug) Investigations - Efforts to 
locate Weatherfugs. 
35. Weatherman .automobile Hot Sheet - Conmilation of t'Joathe:rman 
vehicles for use by surveillance personnel. 
- 3 -
