E. 
! 
F. 
SECTION 107. I~•NAL SECURITY INFORMANTS AND C··IDENTIAL SOURCES; 
AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS 107D-F 
4. Contact potential informants personally at least once every two weeks. 
5. Advise Bureau of progress being made at least every six months. Submit 
letters (FD-401)concerning potential informants who are not being paid 
on Bureau authorization on UACB basis; include summary of information 
furnished during past six months and certifications regarding stability 
and indoctrination against disclosure. Follow form indicated under 
§ 107L, item 3b, below, except those items concerning payments. 
6. Post record of all contacts with potential informants. 
7. During contacts with potential informants, if it develops individual 
does, not have necessary capabilities, discontinue efforts. 
8. Informants may raise a question concerning their position if it becomes 
known publicly they are affiliated with subversive organization. In 
such case, he may be told that his cooperation is matter of record in 
FBI and if some question arises concerning his loyalty we will consider 
making facts of his cooperation known to his employer or to responsible 
individuals. Before taking steps to advise anyone of potential infor­
mant's or informant's cooperation, obtain Bureau authority. 
9. From first interview with potential informant through development and 
until discontinued, use extreme caution at all times to be certain he is 
not a plant. 
10. When potential informant begins to furnish current information ;;i.nd 
otherwise qualifies for designation as informant, advise Bureau. 
This communication must be personally initialed by SAC or ASAC 
acting in his absence. Individual's background must be thoroughly 
reviewed at this time, keeping in mind possibility of using inform­
ant as witness. If individual has any weaknesses, set forth safe­
guards being followed to insure security and prevent embarrassment 
to Bureau. 
BURRl\U POLICY 
1. Development of military pers~nnel 
Do not develop informants among active duty military personnelo 
2. Contacts by designated Agents 
Contacts with informant or potential informant should only be made by 
Agent or Agents specifically designated to contact him. 
3. Divulging information to informant 
No information should be divulged to potential informant or informant 
concerning any of Bureau's investigative activity other than that which 
is essential to his proper operation. 
4. Recording investigative activity 
All investigative activity must be made matter of record in field office 
files with all sources of information being completely identified. Agents 
must not have and use informants known only to individual Agents personally. 
5. All informants and sources are to be debriefed on at least a monthly 
basis regarding their knowledge of narcotics activities. 
[6. All pending informant files are to be reviewed personally by appropriate 
supervisory personnel on a regular periodic basis not to exceed 60 days. 
This review must include the informant's file and its subfilesol 
INDOCTRINATION, DIRECTION, AND CONTROL OF INFORMANTS 
1. Caution against divulging relationship 
Du.ring initial development and consistently thereafter, impress upon 
informant absolute necessity that he refrain from divulging his rela­
tionship with Bureau. These instructions must be properly phrased to 
prevent possibility of Bureau's being accused of attemp~ing to impose 
censorship. 
2. Developing additional background 
Du.ring development of informant, additional data concerning his back­
ground should be continuously obtained from informant. Be alert for 
data revealing he is mentally or emotionally unstable, or has some 
personal problem which would make him a risk. 
3. Indications of instability 
Immediately furnish details of any indications of instability to Bureau, 
with recommendations as to informant's continuance and comments as to 
any steps being taken to prevent embarrassment to Bureau. 
5 
1-13-75 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1139 
