[ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 [ 
. 
Secret 
26 February 1997 
Memorandum For: John Pereira 
Chief, Historical Review Group 
From: Barry Harrelson 
JFK Project Officer 
Subject: (U) CIA Employees Names in JFK Records 
Background 
(AIOU) In March 1996, the ARRB agreed to protect the 
names of all Agency staff employees that appear in JFK 
documents until. May 1997. The agreement reflected the 
Board's recognition of the need to facilitate the document 
review, and that it would take time for the Agency to 
collect.evidence to defend individual names. Attached are 
Jeremy Gunn's memo summarizing,the Board's approach to the 
release of CIA employee names and the DO's response. Both 
memos assume a name-by-name approach and set categories and 
specific requirements for the release or protection of an 
individual. Also attached is an analysis of the AR.RB and DO 
approaches. 
(AIOU) I do not know how prepared the DO is, but I 
suspect that there is still a significant amount of work to 
be done prior to the Board's May meeting. I understand that 
many former employees have not responded to the DO's letter 
and that most of the responses have been negative. Even if 
the DO is able to complete the research on all employees 
protected to date, it is unlikely that they will be able to 
develop the type of evidence required by the Board to 
protect most individuals. Under the name-by-name approach, 
we can expect a majority of the names to be released. 
Issue 
(AIOU) There is considerable concern among HRG 
reviewers that the continued release of hundreds of Agency 
employees' true names has the potential to do unacceptable 
harm to US national security. The harm from release of a 
large number of names lies in the fact that it cannot be 
measured. This is due to the ripple effect that would occur 
among assets in many places and with many liaison services. 
It undermines the basic concept of cover for a claudestine 
service. 
CL By:• 
CL .Reason: 
DECL On: 
DRV From: 
Secret 
l61163i} 
i.s (c) 
Xl 
PER 9-87;COV 1.1-86 
