13-00000 
the infonnation stl"aight forwardly, thereby, handicap;-:ing the analysts in making 
:( ' a confident judgment of the accu.racy of the report's content. i't • 2 
Some intelligence analysts, both inside and outside the CIA, receivei • 
large numbers of this type of report every daY, many of.which do come from 
actual agents. But by mixing together information supplied by audio surveillance 
(which is, by definition, an accuaate account of what was e4id) with agent 
reports which are sometimes exaggerated or false, the Clandestine Services 
confuses and often misleads those people within the U.S. government whose 
function it is to an&lyse foreign events and indirectly those leaders who make 
decisions based on that intelligence analysis. 
t-
In,.the mid-1960s, the Far East Division of the Clandestine Services and @ 
the experts of the Scientific and Technical Directorate combineddfmoces to 
carry out one of the Agency's most imaginative (if ultimately unsuccessful) 
intelligence collection operations ever undertaken. At that time, top-level 
U.S. government officials were distutbed by repprts that Canmunist China was on 
the verge of developing an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) system. 
They knew that the threat posed by Chinese .ICBM's would play an important part 
' . 
in the decision, then under consideration, to go ahead with an American anti-
ballistic missile (ABM) deployment program. As a matter of the highest 
priority, the CIA was told to find out what \·1as happening at Shuangch'engtz11, the 
Chinese missile test site in the far western corner of Inner Mongolia. 
The Agency's technical specialists responded by designing a nuclear-
ppwered device which could mon~tor certain key electronic emissions coming from· 
the missile site, well over a thousand miles away, and then rely the infonnation 
to a CIA listening post. The plan was to emplace the device on a mountain 
peak called the Nanda Devi, at an altitude of more than 25,000 feet, in the 
Indian Himalayas from where it would have an unobstructed "line-of-sight" to 
the secret test facility. As the device was being perfec.ted· in the CIA 
1Ahnr;1tnriPc;. thP r.lanrlPst.inP SPrvic:P.s took on the resoonsibi l itv for the most 
