6L 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
SECTION 6. 
- PART II 
PUBD~CATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONT,TS 
S.ACs must be alert in recommending S.AC contacts that they are not nro­
posing individuals w:'.:J.o because of business cohnection·s or ·personal 
~otivities or close association with other persons will be involved in 
unfavorable publicity or become the subject of adver~e investigative 
activity, or w.J?,o will capitalize on the"ir _friendly association· with the SAC. • • •• • ! • • 
Except where a suitable file is already in existence; a dead £ile in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact.- • 
.A three- by five-inch c·ard on each cont-act is ·to be- retained in ·an SAC 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the S.AC. Each car~ is to 
contain: 
a. Name of th·e contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telephone ·numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any comments which ·would be helpful in handling the individu.a:l 
e. Date of first contact and name of SAC first developing the c-o-n-t·act 
( Show in th·e lower left ·c·orner· on the front of the card.):·. 
f. Dates ·of contacts ·by the SAC ·(to be entered on the reverse -ii"id'e- of 
the card in longhand). Contacts more frequent than quarterly sFould 
not be listed: • • :. ·, -· -
g. Any necessary·'ci.escriptive data i .L ••• ;.: 
Each contact is to be indexed in the general indices. The card' is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparation, and the not:ation/ 
"See S.AC. 11 • • • .- -·· i: 
S.AC contacts located in headquarters city mu.st be contacted a~ 'least thre-e 
times each year; those located in areas reguiarly covered ·_'by :ro·aa: trip·s 
out of headquarters ·city or ·located in resident agep.cies mus·t· be ·contacted 
at leait two"tfmes each year. • 
.Advise Bureau immediately when· a contact is discontinued JJACB.· ·tf· the 
contact is tranqferred or moves to another city locat~d withi~ ~~other 
fie'ld di vision, a ·copy of "the communication advi s;i.ng of the d:i:scontinuance 
should be designated for "that field division. Also advise field division 
of background information re. contact. - - • • • ~ -
Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addres·ses or status .:of SAC c_ontacts. 
Each office must. submit a complete roster of SAC contacts to ·reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and November each year. If there are 
any changes in address, emplqyment, or other pertinent data,.· such informa­
tion should lie set forth. If there is no change in st·atus,' so state. 
From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to ass"ist in making them more "FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indication that such· 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known ~o tha 
Bureau without delay. 
Immediately upon assuming the duties- of SAC, such SAC should visit all 
persons listed as SAC contacts and in addition leading officials located 
in th~ field division, ,,.;_ :; 
8 
12-29-67 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 290 
( 
l. 
[ 
I 
I 
l 
I 
