107:tt - lf- SECTION 107, ,SECURITY INFORYJ,UTS AND CO'NFID- ,"",!AL SOURCES 
. ~-
[ 
N. 
NW 38321 
[i2.] 
dooument in the per--tinent inforrnant file and is not to be serialized. 
If a particular section of this form is not applicable, such should be 
noted thereon. If it later becomes applicable, the. serial number can be 
noted at that time. 
Bulky material submitted by informant 
Where informant or source submits bulky material other than a statement 
and same pertains to a specific investigative matter, bulky material may 
_be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of executed 
form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
set forth on form FD-306, In such a case, the original form FD-306 or 
channelizing memorandum should .be filed in the subfile of the informant 
or source and the file and serial number where the bulky material is 
located should be noted thereon. 
PAYMENTS TO INFORM.AHTS .AND HANDLING MONEY RECEIVED 
1. No gifts to informants 
a. Gifts shoul·d not be given :l;o informants .. since such actions might be 
. mi sco::i. s trued. . . .- . . 
b. Relationship between Agents and informants shall be.maintained on· 
a businesslike basis, 
o. Expenditures for gifts to informants will not be approved as blue 
slip items. 
d. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies 
and request a,ssistance rega:.~. ·:ig payments of money, gifts, or products 
of such companies to informar! ts ..... ,. , .... 
2. S.AC authority to pay informants • 
a. In specific instances in which it is necessary and expedient to 
expend money to obtain information concerning matters or persons 
under investigation, which is not otherwise obtainable, or to advance 
expense money to enable an individual to obtain such iaformation, • 
SAC may approve p~.yments of amounts up to $200 and tot~ling not more 
than $200 on a c.o.d, ba-sis regardless of the number of payments. 
This applies only to individuals v1ho have never been regular1.y paid 
for services or expenses on Bureau authorization. In other words, 
onoe an individual has been paid on Bureau authorization, regardless 
of the amount, ",;his authority of the SAC may not be utilized. 
b. Individual who is paid on S.4.C authority should not be described •in 
correspondence as ~.n informant or source who is being paid on a 
"regular basis" or on "Bureau authorization. 11• 
o. The blue slip reclaiming_any of these payments authorized by the SAC 
must clearly and accurately explain the circumstances and summarize the 
information obtained so the Bureau will be in a po si ti.on to pass 
intelligently such blue slips for payment. 
d. Prior Bureau authority must be obtained to make any additional payment 
to an individual who has received payments totaling $200. 
3. Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authoriza­
tion, 
b. In requesting this authori~ation, a justification must be set forth 
containing the following items and using the subheadings shown. 
(In espionage and foreign nationality matters, use subheadin~s 
where applicable.) 
• (1) Recommendation 
(Use following wording as nearly as possible: 
"I recommend that authority be granted to 
continue (increase, decrease} payments to the 
above informant up to$ (amount) per (month, week) 
for services, plus up to$ (amount) per (month, week) 
for expenses actually incurred for a periodof rnonthsJ 
effective __ {date).")· --
18 
3-13-61 
. ··-·-· - ·--~ - .. . . 
) 
! 
. I 
i 
I 
i ·1 
I • 
I 
