6A 
SECTION 6. 
• PART II 
PUBL'.J.-::ATIONS, PRESS, .A.l'TD PUBLIC CONT.S 
2. Requesting authority for release 
a. By teletype .. 
At least four hours hefore the time of rel·ease, .developments in the 
case, an outline of the release, and stateme~:t release will. be made 
UACB are to be furnished the- Bureau. 
~- By telephone where time is of essence 
Confer with division head having supervision of the mati;er for 
investigative clearance and with the off.i_ce of the divi.sion head of 
the Crime Records Division for final press clearance. While good 
judgment_ must prevail, in important cases in which a local newspaper 
deadline is approaching,. it may be advisable to te:Lephone· the. Bureau 
for clearance. • . .. . . • • 
3·. Press releases are ·to be ~ade personally only by. the· SAC or in his absence 
by the ASAC. • • • •. 
4. Releases are to be made both at headquarters and the. local area. affected 
by developments. All material prepared for the public must be reviewed 
word for word. It is not to contain words .or phra_s.es which might be 
regarded as. objectionable or offensive to a member of any race, creed., or. 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized whereve·r 
possible, and all press releases should be coordinated :to eli~p..ate· any 
avoidable delays. • • .· ... , . 
5. In the absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the public inter­
est, no stateme.nt should be put in a.n. announcement to the press· to _the 
effect that a subje~t either has confessed or.has a~mitted his crimes 
without specific Bureau approval. In case of doubt,·· consult t_he Bureau. 
When the fact that a subject has given a confession. i~ included. in a com-. 
plaint and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press., a "no comment 11 reply 
should be given. The complaint is a court record and must b'e. le,ft 7j;o 
speak for itself. 
'· ' 
,. re 
6. On-the-spot announcements by SAC are authorized ·in e_mergency ·s:1. tuations 
in which good judgID:lnt so dictates. Emergency on-the-spot sta.tem:ent.s by 
Agents limited to their official identity and, if known, ·l:;he :tdenti ty of ( 
fugitive or criminal in gun battle. If badly want(!ld fugitive,-apprehended . 
in.remote area. and SAC absent, Agent may, in rare emergency only and where 
time of essence, furnish bare details. Contact. by SAC with press should 
be effected immediately where press desires further. details. _. 
[ 7. [In those instances in which a press release is_issuea.at SOG, television 
[ and radio media should be merely provided with a written. copy of the press 
[ release, and Bureau personnel should not submit to live, filmed, or ·l:;apa-
( recorded interviews of any kind, including the read~ng of the release it-
[ self, without prior Bureau authority. Tact and.diplomacy must be exercised 
[ in declining to participate in such interviews.· With respect•t.9 local 
[ press releases, SAGs may, when requested, make .. personal appearanoes-.on 
[ television and radio provided no interviews are conducted and,"t:h.ere is 
[ absolutely no elaboration over and above. the origina:):. press. rel!?as~ G • • 
( These conditions should be made known in advance to-television and radio. 
[ stat'ion representatives ·when such requests are ;r-ec~ived. J ... . _ . :~, 
NW38321 
. 8. In the absence of special _circumstances, Bureau .A.gents should: neyve:r~.suggest 
or request a reporter or another representative of a newspaper.or similar 
publication to withhold the publication of news. In the event that. special 
circumstances do exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bureaµ prior 
to making any such request. _,. . .__._ 
Page 273 
la 
1-30-70 
( 
