.\ 
I 
I 
~-
1 
~/: 
r:_-• • I 
.J .. 
t* J.I ii L fil J NINiifR1FTJICP'P1JTIJIP 
.l acfr Anderson :wd Les \Fhilleu 
B~hind John If. I(ennedy's Murder 
I . 
Mafia mobster John Roselli may They were under the loose control 
have taken the secret of the John F. of Florida's Mafia chieftan, Santos 
Kennedy assassination with him to his ·Traffii::ante. His gambling enterprises 
death. He was brutally murdered a in Havana had been closed down by 
few weeks ago, his backed-up body Castro after the 1959 revolution. In 
stuffed into an o!I drum and dumped fact, Trafficante had been lodged for a 
into Miami's Biscayne Bay. period In a Cuban jail, an indignity 
Before he died, Roselli hinted to as- that didn't endear Castro to him. 
sociates that he knew who had ar- After Trafficante made it back to his 
ranged President Kennedy's murder. , Florida haunts, he left part of his or­
It was the same conspirators. he sug- ganization behind In Havana. Some of 
gested, whom he had recruited earlier his henchmen even managed to de­
to kill Cuban Premier Fidel Castro. velop contacts in Castro's inner circle. 
By Roselli's cryptic account, Castro These ;,vere the people Roselli wanted 
learned the identity of the underworld to use to knock off Castro. 
contacts in Havana who had been But Roselli didn't have the stature 
trying to knock him off. He belleve<i, inside ~he Mafia to make the necessary 
-not altogether without basis, that Pres- arrangements with Trafficante. So 
• • ident Kennedy was behind the plot. Roselll I called in his patron, the Chi• 
Tue Cuban leader, as the supreme cago godfather Sam (Momo) Giancana, 
Irony, d,ecided to turn the tables and to deal 'with Trafficante. 
use the same crowd to arrange Ken- . As Roselli's associ_ates tell it, he per­
nedy's assassination, according to suaded ! Giaocana that it would be to 
Roselll's scenario. To save their skins, their advantage to win the good will of 
the plotters lined up Lee Harvey Os- the CIA. Convinced. Glancana flew 
wald to pull the trigger. down t9 Florida to make the prellmi• 
Roselli could never be pinned down nary arrangements. 
on names or details. It was also diffi- Once Giancana and Trafflcante set it 
cult to assess whether he knew what up, Ro~elll used the Havana under­
he was talking about or whether he world to plot Castro's demise. At first, 
merely described what he thought they tried to plant poi!ion pills, sup­
might have happened. Certainly there plied bi, the CIA, in Castro's food. The 
is no real evidence to support Roselli's pills would have made it appear that 
story. But there arc enough curious he died- of natural causes. When this 
circumstances to justify telling it. Here failed, snipers were dispatched to a 
h f i • h hi' h Havana rooftop. They were caught. • are t e asc natmg ig ig ts. The word reached Roselli that some 
The rugP,edly handsome Roselli, a of the piotters had been tortured and 
flarnuoyant mohster with underworld that Castro had . learned about the 
contacts in Havana, was recruited by whole operation. 
the Central Intelligence Agencv in . The CIA called ore the Roselli opera-
1960 to assassinate Castro. He had no· • tion in March, 1963, but -recruited a 
authority, however, over the under- Castro associate, Rolando Cubela, to 
world elements in Havana. murder Castro. 
r:: 
DROPOUTS. 
r S!: E -;.::>U/ilf fN· 
L.ARCtf6 YOUR Huf, 
0!1E F .. , E'Yf1!\tJOl!Ji:; 
FAMILY." 
GASOUi\'E ALLEY 
_ In an impromptu, three-hour inter­
view witb Associated Press reporter 
Daniel Harker, Castro indicated that 
he knew about the attempts on his life, 
and warned that U.S. leaders also 
might not be safe. That was Sept. 7... 1003. • · r_,. 
According to Roselli, Castro enlisted 
the same underworld elements whom 
he had caught plotting against hi111. 
They supposedly were Cubans from 
the old Trafficante organization. 
Working with Cuban intelligence. they 
·allegedly lined up an ex-Marine sharp­
shooter, Lee Harvey Oswald, who had 
been active in the pro-Castro move­
ment. 
According to Roselli's version, 
Oswald may have shot Kennedy or 
may have acted as a decoy while oth­
ers ambushed him from closer range. 
When Oswald was picked up, Roselli 
suggested, the underworld conspira­
tors feared he would crack and dis­
close information that might lead to 
them. This almost certainly would 
have brought a massive U.S. crack-
down on the Mafia. • 
So Jack Ruby was ordered Lo elim• 
Jnate Oswald, making it appear as an 
act of reprisal against the President's 
killer. At least this is how Roselli ex• 
plained the tragedy in Dallas. • 
Several key CIA officials belie\·ed 
that Castro was behind the Kennedy 
!nation. 
It has also been established that Jack 
Ruby, Indeed, had been in Cuba and 
had connections in the Havana under­
world. One CIA cable, dated Nov. 28, 
1003, reported that "an American 
gangster type named Ruby" had vis­
ited Trafficante in his Cuban prison. 
lh llo1u1nl / 111,1 
mt 50955 Docid:32423630 Page 453 
' !· 
' 
I I 
f 
? 
