13-00000 
-4-
wHhout requiring the Bureau to make a showing that the informant is alive. This,, 
protection would extend to Individuals characterized as symbol-number Informants, 
•psis," -PCls,• •established sources,· •panel sources," and the like - designations that 
Indicate an ongoing relationship with the FBI. It would not extend to lnd~duals wlio 
requested that their Identity be protected In an isolated contact with the FBI or to loC@t .. -
and state law enforcement officers. 
The "informant-identifying information• to be protected would Include the customary 
(I.e., informant .. specific) portions of informant symbol.numbers and flle n_umbers~ 
lnfonnant names, and - at least potentially - descriptions of, and lnforma~D f.~lved 
from, the Informant How much, If any, of the latter type of lnfof1!1atlon should b~ ., 
redacted would be the principal focus of staff-level discussions with the FBI. The staffs 
principal goal _in this process, with regard to each Informant, would be to release as 
much information that is relevant to understanding the assassination as possible. In 
discussions with the FBI, the staff would be prepared, lf:necessary, to concede 
redaction of informant-identifying information-that is unrelated to the assassination in 
order to ensure thatmore pertinent information Is released;5 
The presumption will be that an informant's identity will be released if the infonnant 
• provides ~positive" information about an assassination;.related issue. -To overcome this 
. presumption of release for lnfonnants with "positive" information;·the FBI would need to 
make a particularized showing tha,t the identifying Information should not be released, 
To the extent th.at an informant's identity is protected, it will be postponed until 2017. 
CIA Employee Name Postponements 
Over the past year the CIA has addressed the employee name issue and has released 
some names that it had previously asked the Board to postpone. But during that time 
the list of names has grown to a size that had not been Imagined at the time the work 
began. To date, the Review Board staff has identified In the JFK Collection over 650 
• names of CIA employees. These names appear in more than 1000 documents already 
reviewed by the Board and numerous additional records that have not yet been 
processed. While some of these employee names are important to the assassination 
story, many appear only a few times in the entire JFK Collection and seem to add little, 
if any, important information. 
51n HSCA subjects, there typically will not be information about Ruby, Oswald or 
the assassination Itself. However, -1n·a file on, for example,· Sam Giancana, there_may 
be informant reports on Giancana's support of anti-Castro activities, and reports from 
the same infonnant on day-to-day numbers operations in the Chicago area. The staff 
would set a higher priority on release of the former reports than on the latter. 
li.J 005 
