. . 
• !,[emorandwn to !:tr.· Belmont ... • <: • ,· 
Re: Ii'ITBLLIGE7'i/CE COVERAGE'·QJ?···· • 
. FRiiJ1VDLY FOREIG!lf COUNTRIE
1
S 
65-63113 
• ·_, .... ,. 7 
only investigative data but also intelligence information of value t'o 
us and.other agencies in gu.iding policy and making decisions" The . 
Bu_reau is expected to produce intelligence data and ·we can anticipate· 
criticism as well as operational moves by other agenci.es to fill the 
vqcuum if our operations do not produce necessary intelligence. 
S'ound source programs are based on 1 ong-range planning and require 
fon,1X1,rd thinlring to get resul tso Scrambling for sourc;es in reactions 
_to problems woul.¢l constitute a most undesirable substitute and give 
rise to justified criticism-in a fiald where the Bureau takes pride in 
e~celling. • 
Intertnittent Phases and Tie In with Other Proorams. • 
While captioned program currently follows· three principal 
facets, as. described hereinbefore, as the need arises we institute 
·special types of coverage for some particular purposes./""For e.xampl-e,_ 
at the specific request on 1-22-;/? of Deputy Under Secr'e'-tJeiry of State 
Rol;eri~ tfurphy (who stated Secretary of State Dulles W(lS aware of· the 
request and would discuss it with the President), we conducted highly 
delicate coverage at Blair llouse from 1-J0-5? to 2-9-57 during a State 
visit of j(ing I'b1?.. Saud of Saudi Arabiao Because of this coverage, we 
were able· to furnish most important intelligence information to the 
President within minutes of its production. This is_ the only instance 
within our knowledge wherein this highly delicate coverage has been 
utilized; but, through arrangements effected by our Liaison Section and 
installations pe~fected by our Laboratory, we are in a position to 
afford similar-type coverage at Blair I-louse almost at ~oment 's notice 
in the future if the .?resident _so desires. (62-104531.JJ 
Another e.xampl e of instituting special coverage on a need 
basis relates to a series of burglaries of foreign .official establish­
ments and res id enc es which cropped up last summer 'in Vlashington and 
lvew York City.·· On 7-31-58 we alerted 1'Jew York and Vfashington Field . • 
Offices to the poss i b i 1 i t y that the i 11 ega 1 entries may have _be en -for 
something other than criminal purposes and instructe(l, that these 
incidents be· followed closely with local pol ice authorities. Ile­
checked with the Central Intelligence Agency and were advised that 
Agency was n_ot involved directly or indirectly. Through our_ coverage 
• of various precincts of the l ocat pol ice departments, . we hav~: .found 
that all but: one of ,~he.se burglaries have appeared to have bee_n .f_?r 
crirninal purposes; the one e.xception relates to the burglary .of _t,ze ' • • -!- ;"1 
• residence of an Iridian official in I7ashington. Ile are cont-inuzng :~--_: :'!I 
follow the latter incident with the pol-ice in an effort to ·det-ermzr;._ 
an intel 1 igence operation was. in vol vedo • . ; > 
• • . (65-63113-112, 118, 119, ·123, 125, 12~).. ~ ·,, 
3 
.. Page 3J7 
, ' 
j 
