.. ') ,: 2) 
SECTIO~ 101. [INTAL]SECURITY INFORMA.~Ts AND coN&NTIAL SOURCES; 107L 
[AND-gEIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSE1'f'. 
(4) Number of statements submitted 
Combine total number· of oral and written statements submitted 
and show only total number. 
{5) Stability and reliability 
Check positive box if informant is considered stable and 
reliable. If not or if there are any personal weaknesses, 
domestic difficulties, indications of untrustworthiness or 
unreliability, or any other similar problems presented by 
informant, check negative box and explain under 11:Miscellaneous. 11 
(6) Indoctrination against disclosure 
If informant has been indoctrinated against disclosure, check 
positive box. 
(7) Percentage,of information verified 
Show percentage of information furnished by informant which has 
been verified through other sources. 
(8) All necessary action taken on information furnished 
If all action has been taken, check positive box. If not, check 
negative box and explain under 11Miscellaneous • 11 
(9) Summary of information furnished 
This summary should be concise, highlighting more pertinent 
information furnished by informant. Do not attempt to summarize 
all infor~ation furnished by informant. 
(10) Miscellaneous 
Furnish any chan~e in informant's.residence and employment by 
secure teletype (ni tel), steps being taken to. advance informant, 
and any other pertinent information which should be brought to 
Bureau's attention. Include statement that source has been 
advised that all payments of money made to him for services 
rendered must be declared as income on his tax return and has 
agreed to do so. 
c. When payment to informant has been authorized for definite period of 
time, advise Bureau at least two weeks in advance of expiration of 
period as to whether services of informant are to be continued. 
d. Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments. Follow instructions set forth in item 3b, above. 
e. Submit letters requesting authority to continue {increase, decrease) 
payments to an informant in duplicate except that copy should con­
sist only of first page of letter. When payments are ap.proved, 
single-page copy will be stamped 11.A.pproved II at Bureau and returned. 
If recommendation is not approved., field will be advised by separate 
communication. 
f. When payments are authorized by Bureau, it is personal responsibility 
of each SAC definitely to assure that full value is being received. 
g. Discontinuance of payments 
If at any time it appears information being produced by informant is 
not commensurate with payments made to him, immediately dis continue 
payments or adjust accordingly and promptly advise Bureau. 
h. If any extraordinary expenses are anticipated for which approval has 
not been given, obtain specific Bureau authority. 
4. Six-month evaluation of informants not paid on Bureau authority 
If informant is not being paid on Bureau authorization, FD-401 must be 
transmitted to Bureau every six months after date of designation con-
• taining same 
1
information set out in item 3b, above, except those items 
concerning payments. Recommendation of SAC regarding continuance of 
[ informant should also be set forth UACB. 
5. Re ce i pt s . 
When payments are made either on SAC authority or prior Bureau approval, 
obtain receipts in every instance in which it is possible to do so. If 
receipt cannot be obtained for particular payment, set forth complete 
circumstances on blue slip at time ;reimburseme.nt is claimed. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1165 
15 
10-15-74 0 
