13-00000 
Even the high-level executive branch officials who are members of the 
lnteragency Security Classification Appeals Panel have been fl~mmoxed by the . 
difficulties in coordinating the declassification of information controlled under the 
Atomic Energy Act. This is particularly absurd because, according to Ms. Mazer, 
information that is similar or identical to much of what we have seen designated 
as FRO [i.e. classified under the Atomic Energy Act] has been in the public 
domain for many years, often as a result of a prior Department of Energy 
declassification review. Moreover, there appears to be no system in place to get 
this information declassified, even though the Departments involved- Energy, 
Defense, and State-· acknowledge that it is innocuous.19 ' 
The perpetuaUon of two distinct classification systems would represent a 
significant compromise of the Government Secrecy Act'tJ goal of "a more stable and 
GQst-effective set of policies and a more consistent application of rules and 
procedures." • • 
,·•· 
Therefore, I would suggest that the Committee consider the feasibility of 
consolidating both classification systems into one. 
CONCLUSION 
Although the Cold War has officially been over for several years now, we still 
face the challenges of adapting the inherited structures of that era to the present day. 
Fixing the classification system is foremost among those challenges. 
It is only natural that any significant changes to the status quo will be resisted by 
the bureaucratic systems that are now in place. But the Committee should have 
confidence in the traditional American mechanism of "checks and balances." 
By installing new checks and balances into a classification system that has long 
been allowed to function unilaterally, Congress can induce prudent changes that will 
advance the national interest in open and accountable government, while more 
efficiently protecting genuine national security information. 
19Remarks by Roslyn Mazer, footnote 2 above, emphasis added. 
10 
