... . .. 
Memorandum w. R. Wannall to W. C. Sullivan 
Re: OPERATIONS 
LEGAL ATT~~, SANTO DOMINGO· OFFICE 
,. 
-,: 
In the case of . this informant ~as originally 
developed by the· New York Office. Legal Attache suggested 
the New York Office might have use of informant's services. 
This information furnished to New York.Office which replied 
that in the absense of-organized activity informant would be 
of no use unless he crune to New York with instruct~ons from 
- Dominican communist groups to reorganize activity~·. This, 
of course, is not a desirable situation·. 
OBSERVATIONS: 
We believe Legal Attache, Santo Domingo's recommendation 
to turn over to CIA.is sound, even though 
both of these sources are in a position to furnish valuable 
intelligence information to uso By making these infor~ants 
available to the Agency we will avoid any possible duplicatiJn 
or conflict. This matter should be discussed with appropriate 
officials by our Liaison Agent in order to insure the Agency 
is fully aware of our current status in the Domin'ican Republic. 
• ACTION: 
If you ·d;p:rove: 
(1) Liaison Agent will advise appropriate CIA 
officials as follows: 
✓., 
[
. • ' In accordance with the desire of the President that 
the FBI remain in the Dominican Republic, we are setting up a 
regular Legal Attache Office in Santo Domingo.consisting of 
three men. This will not be an operational office but rathet 
will serve as a strategic 1tstening post for-intelligence d~ta 
and as liaison with agencies.of the Dominican Repu-blic, ~s 
well as other agencies of :foreign governments in that country. 
" .. :Jn connection with this reorga~ization·, we have instructed our 
•. representative in Santo Domingo·"to inake··t;m informants avail­
able t·o .the Agency in the. event it may wish to operate them . 
.,, ... • (2) -The attached teletype; with instructions to 
make availabl"E~ to CIA, will be sent- to the· 
Legal Attache?· $anto D~mingo • 
.. 
N'W 31B26. Docld:32989fi27 P.age 200 
-.. 
. 
.,. 
-. ,., 
.. 
