14-00000 
•• .. ( 
71 
, eithdrawal of assistance to Karamanlis, which he felt had a great deal 
to do with his loss of office:] 
96 
d. {i_ pointed out to the President that we could expect some 
C" 
trouble in BrazilJ 
e. fr.he President asked abf!t the future of Prime Minister Inonu 
of Turkey. I stated that we expected that his government would fall 
and that he would lose office soon after his' return_;J 
c;g 
f. [! repeated to the President briefly my meeting with President 
Macapagal which is covered in a separate memorandum prepared by 
Mr. Colby_] 
g. f lso I raised the question~f the importance of our taking 
iniative in the Indonesia matter by working with Macapagal. We might bring 
Indonesia round and also straighten out the Malayasia problem_:) 
2. The President then turned to Cuba. He asked how effective our 
policy was and what was the future of Cuba. He asked how effective the 
economic denial program was and how we planned to dispose of Castro. 
He said he did not wish any repetition of any fiasco of 1961, but he felt that 
the Cuban situation was one that we could not live with and we had to 
evolve more aggressive policies. He looks to us for firm recommendations. 
In this connection we should prepare a briefing and also we should study 
carefully various courses of action. 
3. tthe President then raised~!e question of the deal between the 
Rumanian government and the Ferguson company for the procurement 
of a steel mill and asked whether I thought this was a good thing. I 
replied affirmatively, stating that in my opinion economic relations with 
the satellites would tend to break down the closemess of ties between 
the satellites in Moscow and this should be a very definite policy 
effort on our part. I noted that Moscow had discouraged the Rumanian 
steel mill because it did not fit into their pattern of economic integration 
of the satellites and the Soviet Union. The President then stated that he 
agreed that we should attempt to pull the satellites away. He then brought 
up the question of Tito and asked if I could give him the name of the best 
man who could serve as Ambassador to Yugoslavia who would be able to 
"win the girl away from Khrushchev." He said that in his opinion this man 
should be an experienced, able man, perhaps in his 50's and preferably a 
Republican, who could carry the confidence of the Republicans and a 
personality who could win Tito's confidence and allegiance. I responded by 
stating that I would prepare a list of competent people who I felt coul:J 
- 2 -
