•. , 
FACT SHEET ON NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE, 1960~64 
With regard to the last two paragraphs of the undated request 
received In the Office of the Secretary of Defense on March 20, 1978, 
the Naval Investigative Service has been unable to identify any • 
personnel presently or formerly associated with its Service~ or its 
predecessor organizations, who were involved in the activities described. 
In general, the monitoring of activities or the utiliz~tion of sources 
within the Cuban anti-Castro groups in Miami and New Orleans during 
the period 1960 to 1964 was under the pri~ary jurisdiction of the 
Federal Bureau of lnves.tigation (FBI) arid the Central Intelligence 
Agency (CIA). 
The NIS was ~stablished in 1966 under the .Naval lntellig~rice 
Command (NIC) .. At that time~ the Servic:e assumed the basic mission 
of what previously had been known as the Investigations Branch (Op-921D), 
and the Counter I nte 11 i'gence Branch .(Qp-921 E) of the Security Division 
(Op-921) of the Office of·Naval Intelligence (ONI). During the period 
1960 to 1964, 'the primary activity of those ,branches involved criminal 
investigations, counterintelligence invest~gations, and background 
investigations of Navy milit~ry arid civilian personnel and Depaftment 
of Defense civilian contractor personnel for security clearance. 
Contacts with.both current and former NIS personnel knowledgeable of 
the activities of both Op-921D and. Op-921E d,urf·ng the period in question 
revealed no recollection of assignment of agents or other employees to 
maintain sources or otherwise investigate or monitor the Cuban anti­
Castro groups in those cities. Their recollection was that the FBI and 
CIA did inves~igate such activities. 
As further background, it is rioted that the establishment of the 
Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) in the early 1960's created shifts 
of mission and personnel from ONI to that organization: Prior to the 
establishment of the DIA, the structure of ONI included, in addition 
to the above-mentioned Security Division (Op-921), the Intelligence 
Production Division (Op-922) and the Administrative Division (Op-923). 
The former, Op-922, was sometimes referred to as the Foreign Intelli­
gence Division and most of Its functions were transferred to DIA.~ 
That transfer of functions also Included transfers of ONI personnel 
and records. OP.,922H was the branch responsible f~r collection and 
dissemination of foreign intelligence. A knowledgeable individual 
currently assigned with the NIC stated that the activities of Op-922H 
included intervrews of anti-Castro Cubans at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but 
noted that any necessary contacts or utilization of anti-Castro Cubans 
in Miami or New Orleans were required to be coordinated through the 
FBI or the CIA, because of the jurisdiction of those organizations in 
those geographical locations. • 
NW 3832:ti Docld:32260196 Page 7 
