-34-
0.: "But in any event, it is your judgment that he did not 
indicate that he was opposed to assassinations? 
Mr. Helms: 
11
Not to me. 
11 
Walter Elder, who served as McCone's Executive Assistant, testified, 
however, that he had personally told Helms of McCone's opposition 
to assassination aft~r the August 10 meeting. ,·r 
(iv) The August 1963 Briefing of McCone 
An August 16, 1.963, Chicago Sun Times article claimed 
that the CIA had had a connection with Giancana. *1r McCone asked 
Helms for a report about the article. McCone testified that when 
..., 
Helms came to see him, he brought the following memorandum: 
"l. Attached is the only copy in the Apency of a memorandum 
on subject, the ribbon copy of which was sent to the Attorney 
General in May of 1962. I was vaguely aware of the existence 
of such a memorandum since I was informed that it had been 
written as a result of a briefing given by Colonel Edwards and 
Lawrence Houston to the Attorney General. in May of last year. 
''2. I spoke with Colonel Edwards on the telephone last evening, 
and, iri the absence of Mr. Bannerman on leave~ I was with Colo­
nel Edwards' assistance able to locate this copy. As far as I 
*Elder told the Conrrnittee: 
"I told Mr. · Helms that Mr; Mc.Cone had expressed his feeling 
... that assassination could not be condoned and would not 
. be approved. Furthermore, ·r conveyed Hr. McCone' s statement 
that it would be unthinkable to record in writingany consid­
eration of assassination because it left the impression that· 
the subject had received serious consideration by governmental 
policy makers, which it had not. Mr·. Helms responded, 'I un­
derstand'. The point is that I made Mr .. Helms aware of the 
strength of Mr. McCone's opposition to assassination. I know 
that Mr. Helms could not have been under any misapprehension 
about Mr.· McCone's feelings after this conversation.p (Elder· 
Affidavit.) 
-Jd·The 8/16/63 Chica o Sun Times article states that "Justice 
Department sources • e 1.eve tat Giancana never did'any spy:i.ng 
for the CIA, but pretended to go along with the Agency "in the 
hopes that· the Jus•tice Department's drive to put him behind bars 
might be slowed - or at least affected - by his ruse of coopera-
tion with another government agency." • 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 98 
