• '· 
I ; 
·' 
: ; 
l ; 
·' 
., 
:I ., 
' 
:j ., 
THL ;·;[\',' REPU!lLIC 
Communisrij. But I feel that he inherited a difficult 
situ,1tion; I don't think a President of the United States 
is ever really freL', and I believe Kennedy is at present 
feeling the impact of this Lick of freedom. I also believe 
he no;\. understands the extent to ,vhich he has been 
misled, especially, for ex,1mple, on Cuban re,1ction .it 
the time of the .:it tempted Bay of Pigs invi'lsion. ~ 
think h,, i5 rJ rcJ)jst; he is now registering that it is im­
possible to simrly \\',WC a \\
0
,1nd ,llld CJUSe us, and the 
explosive situation throughout L:-itin America, to dis­
appear. 
Wl1y tl1e MiE'silcs vVcrc lnstnlleri 
"There is one point on which I w,rnt to l;ive yo~t new 
information right away. I h.:ivc refrained from doing 
this until now; but today an 'attempt is being made to 
frighten all mankind by pwpJgJting the ide.1 th,1t 
Cuba, and in particular I, might provoke a nuclear war, 
so I feel the world should know the true story of the 
missile emplacement. 
"Six mo11ths before lhc•,c mis~;ilcs 
Cub,1, 1vc h:1,I 
government circles. \Ne aho knew that the Pent,1gon 
\\'as vesting_ the CIA preparations with the m,1ntle of 
its Juthority, but 1;;,e hJd doubts as to the attitude of 
th£ Presid~t. There were those Jmong our informants 
1vho eycp \17911gbt it wgq)d suffice to alert the President 
and £iVC hjm cause for C()t1Ccrn in mdcr to Jrres\ t)w~c 
preparJtions. Then one d.:iy Khrushchev's son-in-law, 
Adzhubei-:=7amc to pay us a visit before going· on to 
\Vashington at the invit.1tion of Kennedy's associates. 
Immediately upon Jrriving in Washington, Adzhubci 
had been received by the American Chief Executive, 
and their talk centered p.irticularly on Cuba. A week 
after this interview, we received in Hjvana a copy of· 
.Adzhubei's report to Khrushchev. It w.:is this report 
which tri ggcred the whole si (u,1 tion. 
"\ • nncdy sa • to Adzhubei? Nol\' liskn tD 
·,1id th,it 
,ad said 
peaceful coexistence was seriously compromised by the 
fact that 'Soviet influences' in Cuba altered the b.1lance 
of strength, was destroying the equilibrium ,1grccd 
18 
upon and [,1t this point C1stro emphasized his state­
ment by pronouncing each syale separately] Ke11-
i1cdy rc111i11dcd the Ru;:sians that tlie United Stales 
lrnri 11,ot i11tcrvc11ed i11 Hungary, which was obviously 
a way of demanding Russi,m non-intervention in tht: 
e\'ent of ,1 possible invasion. To be sure, the actual word 
and 
communicated to Khrushchev all our previous informa-- -
lion, the Russians too began to interpret the Kennedy­
Adzhubei conversation as v,/e saw it and they went to 
the source of our information. By the end of a month, 
the Russian and Cuban governments b,;id reached the 
dc(i11itc cq11victio11 that an inv,1sion might take place 
from one moment tp tbe next. This is the twh. 
"vVbat was lo be done? How could we prevent the 
invasion? v\'e found that Khrushchev was concerned 
about the same things that were worrying us. He asked 
tts what we wanted. \tVc replied: rio wlintcvcr is needed 
to co1wi11ce t~:;~j~:C:~a 
11. And how 
to realize this objective? All our thinking and discus­
sions revolved around this point. ',Ve thought of a 
proclamation, an alliance, conventional military aid. 
The Russians explained to us that their concern was 
twofolct: first, they wanted to save the Cuban revolu­
tion (in other words, their socialist honor in the eyes 
of the world),. and at the same time they wished to 
avoid a world conflict. They rcJsoned that if r~mven­
tiona! military aid was the extent of their assistance, 
the United St.1tes might not hesitate to insti~.,tc .1:1 
invasion, in which case Russia would retaliate ar~J this 
would inevitably touch off a world war." 
At this point I interrupted to ask how Cub., cou!J 
have been absolutely certain of So,. iet intervention. 
After all, I said, Stalin certainly "let down" Markos, 
the Chief of the Greek Communist Resistance, because 
such help would have conflicted with prevailint: wncs 
of influence. 
"I know," Castro replied, ''but the two situation~ 
cannot becompJrcd." Then he continued: 
"Russia was much too deeply committed to us: More­
over, since then we hJvc had every proof of the im­
mense solidJrity of the Soviet people and its leaders . 
You r,rn sc? for yourself how clc;irly this solidarity is 
manifest here. Then there is. something else, specifi­
c1lly apropos of Stalin. \Nhcn I was in .the USSR and 
others, outside Russia, were reproaching Khrushchev 
for taking a more conciliatory st.rnc!.::::.r_an Stalin to\vard 
the c1pitalists, Khrushchev confided to me several ex­
amples, which I will not repeat to you, illustrating the 
prudence, even the abdication of Stalin. He told me -
and I believe him - that Stalin would never have em­
plJceJ missiles in Cuba. 
~9 5 5 PocJd • 32A.2.3.63JL ___ Page_ 518 
