- zi -
"This should be a 'Special Tarr;et' operation ... J 
Gnncstcr elements might provide the best recruit-
m~nt potenti~l for actions af';ainst police -- c;2 
,0ntellie;enc~/ officials." (Id., p. 151). ~ . 
Lansdale testified that early in the Mongoose opera­
tion he had su1:.mested to the working level representatives of the Mone;oose 
agencies that they get in touch with "criminal elements" tci obtain intelli­
gence and "possible actions against the police structure" in Cuba. (Lans­
dale, p. 104). But Lansdale conceded that his proposal to recruit 
gangster elements for· attacks. on' ''key· leaders I'. contemplated the targeted 
killing of individuals, in addition to the casualties that might occur in 
the course of the revolt itself. (Lansdale, p. 107) . 
These 33 ~lans of Lansdale were, however, never 
approved for implementation by the Special Group Augmented. As 
discussed below in greater detail (seep. ), the Special Group AuF,mented 
tabled Lansdale's. six phase plan altogether in February 1962, and directed 
Lansdale to plan for and conduct an intelligence collection plan only. 
(Memo, 3/2/62; M.inutes of Special Group Augmented Meeting, 3/5/62). 
a. Lansdale I s Rej'ection of a Suggestion That a Prop·aganda 
Campaign, Including Rewards.for Assassination, Be Explored 
On January 30, 1962, the representative of the Defense Department and the 
Joint Chiefs on the Mongoose Working Group forwarded for Lansdale'.s con­
sideration "a concept for creating distrust and apprehension in the Cuban 
Communist Hierarchy" (Lansdale Ex. 1, Memorandum, 1/30/62, from Craig 
to Lansdale, p. 1). This concept, titled Operation Bounty, was described as 
a "system of financial rewards, commensurate with position and stature, 
for killing or delivering alive known Commun is ts." (Id. , p. 2) Under the 
concept, leaflets would be.dropped in Cuba listing re~ards, which "" 
'!:_!An earlier reference to use of gangster-type elements had appeared 
in a CIA memorandum for the Special Group on January 24, 1962. Commenting 
on Task 5 of Lansdale's original 32 tasks (which called for planning for 
"defection of top Cuban government officials"), the CIA memorandum note~ 
that planning for the task will "necessarily be based upon an appeal made 
inside the island by intermediaries" and listed·"crime syndicates" along 
with other grmms ac:: r,oc::sihle int:ermf">ni.ciri0c::. 
mt 50955 Docld.: 32423.')39 Page 157 
