13-00000 
PAGE 30 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
some records at the National Archives that are still under review, such as the 
Secretary of Army's records dealing with Operation Mongoose, the campaign to 
• destabilize the Cuban government in the period after the Bay of Pigs. 
Other records have been located at other agencies. I received a call from the 
Customs Bureau today and they will be turning over their assassination records 
to me hopefully this afternoon. After this hearing is over I'll be picking up· 
the records they've located. 
So it's tough to say how much is still out there but I think there's still going 
to be another considerable amount of material, probably will be added to the 
collection before this process is finished. 
REP. BARRETT: Millions of pages? 
MR. TILLEY: Oh, no. I would say probably, if we had another half a million 
pages, that might be the extent of it. But what's interesting and fascinating 
about this process is that we continue to tum up records where we did not know 
there were records before. As agencies are aware of this effort, they have come 
to the board. And the board is responsible for a lot of this by their aggressive 
work with federal agencies. But I don't see us ever doubling the collection 
again, but I think we will add a significant amount of material in the weeks and 
years ahead. • 
REP. BARRETT: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
REP. HASTERT: Mr. Tunheim, I have just a very short question. You mentioned the 
movie that came out, JFK, and Mr. Oliver Stone's work in there. Did Mr. Stone 
ever have any questions of your work at all, or did he do research? 
MR. TUNHEIM: Mr. Stone has been very supportive of the work of the review board. 
He testified before the Congress when this bill was passed initially, 
encouraging broad release of the records. He sent a representative to one of our 
public hearings who testified and spoke very favorably about the work of the 
board. So he's been strongly supportive and we've appreciated that support. 
REP. HASTERT: Why have you waited to this point in the process to begin 
reviewing the CIA and FBI records? 
MR. TUNHEIM: Well, we've been reviewing CIA records and FBI records from the 
very beginning, Mr. Chairman. The volume of records in those agencies is really 
significant. We have completed the entire review of the core collections of 
those agencies and those are numbers, between the two agencies, it's more than a 
million pages of records. 
What we are doing right now are delving into what's called the sequestered 
collection in both of these agencies. Within the CIA these are records that the 
House Select Committee on Assassinations asked to be sequestered, taken away 
from their files and kept in a secure place for future review. The House Select 
Committee did not have time fo review these records carefully. Some of them are 
