[ 
,. ••i_ 
I [9. 
[ [10. 
[ [11. 
NW-38321 
SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS[AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] l07F 
As means of o,,,ining closer co.ntr~l, obtain s'1ned statement set 
out below whenever feasibl, and practical. In thoce instances in 
which it is not practical to secure a signed statement from an 
informant or double agent, advise Bureau of complet~ details, The 
SAC and the Agent handling the informant or double agent should 
determine the appropriate time in the informant's operation when 
the statement should be completed. 
- I, _ _,,,_, have voluntarily agreed to cooperate with the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation in a matter affecting the 
security of the United States. I consider it a patriotic 
duty to so cooperate and agree to ~aintain this relationship 
in strict confidence, I understand that I am not a Federal 
employee and viill not represent mysel-f as such. I further 
agree not to make any disclosure or exploit in any way infor­
mation which I may obtain or any acti-vity in which I may en­
gage on behalf of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, both 
while I am actively associated with the l!,ederal Bureau of 
Investigation and thereafter, unless authorizad to do so by 
the Bureau. 
. ( Signed) 
Witnessed: 
Execution of party questionnaires] 
·.a .. Info-rma.nts, particularly in Communist P.,i.rty, ofttimes must execute 
"Party" questionnaires and in doing so should be instructed to be 
extremely careful not to.jeopardize their position as informants. 
b. If necessary, each item in questionnaire should be discussed with 
informant to be certain his identity as informant is protected. 
Informant's activity in organizations] 
a. Informants in org2.nizations mus·!; be impressed with necessity of 
carrying on normal activity, such as canvassing, sale, and dis­
tribution of literature, leaflets, etc. 
b. When feasible, informants should be instructed to accept direction 
from leaders; request instruction and interpretation of the organiza­
tion.' s precepts; request lead·.-3rs to furnish sources for study 
purposes; and enter discussions, not quietly si•l; back as observers, 
o. Changes in the organization's conduct, policy, or strategy should 
be reported on as they occur. Have informants give their opinions 
of t~e motivation behind such changes, but be certain ~pinions and 
suggestions given are labeled as such. • 
d. Inf91•ma11ts m11st be encouraged to increase conta.c,;s within their 
orbit in order to gain higher positions, but at the same time they 
should be cautioned to do so in such a manner as to avoid suspicion. 
Transfer of informants to other areas] 
a •. Keep alert to possibility of transferring informants to areas needing 
coverage through change in res:!.dence or employment. 
b. Keep in mind o"'Ter-alJ. coverage of organizations. If informant 
becon1es prominent and may be able to expand his field of activity 
beyond your field division, by all mea~s cncc~r?:~ h1m tc d0 so 
in ord':}r to provide a wider coverage for the Bureau's work. 
Action by informant when uncovered] 
a •. If informant is uncovered by subversive elements, he should be 
instructed to defend himself vigorously and demand proof of his 
informant activity. 
n. Suspicion in ma~y cases is directed to an informant without facts 
to back it up 4 l by bluffing
0
informant may confuse the issue to 
the point where his services may not be lost. This procedure should 
ba carefully handled and each situation considered on its merits, 
o. In nome cases it may be neaessa~y for informant to acquiesce to 
charges of deviation from the strict discipline of the organization 
involved, as by so doing he may cast off suspicion. 
9 
2-12-60 
·-
