14-00000 
-2-
These types of records need to be reviewed on the same word-to-word basis as 
the board has reviewed records thus far. 
But we have a new problem: how should the Board review records from the 
sequestered collections where the relevance to the assassination is not clear. 
Ill. Examples where the staff has difficulty finding a nexus· to the 
assassination in certain records. 
I will offer a few examples to provide you with a flavor of some of the issues we 
are confronting. The examples below are hypothetical and are loosely based 
upon our review of the files in order to illustrate the issues. 
A. The "false hit" category 
The HSCA requested files from CIA on a great number of persons. In many ' 
instances the agency did not know why the files were requested, and accordingly 
it made available files that it had on the name that had been requested. 
Because names are not always unique, the agency sometimes made available 
files on individuals who were of no interest to the HSCA and who had no 
identifiable relation to the assassination. 
1. A very common name - I will use as an example the name Robert Smith. 
The HSCA requested Robert Smith files because of an alleged 
connection between a "Robert Smith" and Lee Harvey Oswald in 1963. 
The Smith whose file was made available, however, was a CIA officer who 
died in 1956. The ARRB staff has reviewed the file and has discovered 
no relevance to the assassination. 
B. CIA operational files or 201 flies. 
2. Cuban now living in the Unitelf States. CIA unsuccessfully attempted to 
recruit her to collect information on Cuba through her family and friends, 
but ultimately abandoned the effort. Neither she nor any of her hoped for 
contacts had any identifiable connection to the Oswald story or to the JFK 
assassination. 
3. Cuban cultivated for operational work against Castro in whom CIA lost 
-- interest when he was not able to meet operation standards. -
4. Soviet official at the Mexico City embassy during Oswald's visit, although 
he n~ver had any personal contact with him. The Mexico City portion of 
his file ha been reviewed and. released in part to NARA. The remainder of 
