-2-
I am particularly appreciative of your recognition 
that certain sensitive aspects of our intelligence 
/activities must receive special consideration and treatment 
by the Select Committee in the course of your work. As we 
discussed, such matters as the identities of our sensitive 
sources, the material provided to us by cooperating foreign 
intelligence services, the details of technical devices and 
systems and of operational methods, the identities of certain 
,of our employees who could be targets of kidnapping or 
.. assassination, the identities of American citizens and 
organiza~ions who have cooperated with U.S. intelligence, and 
some additional materials the public disclosure of which would 
create serious foreign policy or national security problems, 
should be protected not only from exposure, but indeed from 
the risk of exposure. We should also work together to protect 
pertain other information which, if improperly disclosed, 
/might impair the privacy rights1of individuals. Where these 
• kinds of considerations are present, I anticipate that appro­
priate understandings can be arrived at to avoid the risk of 
exposing such matters and at the same time to satisfy the 
Select Committee's need for a full understanding of our 
activities. 
As I stated to you, employees of the Central Intelligence 
Agency will be available to the Select Committee for staff 
interviews and for testimony. As we have discussed, this 
might require, in some circumstances, special arrangements to 
protect the identity of particular employees whose physical 
safety or future career might be placed in jeopardy by exposure. 
I anticipate that suitable safeguards can be established to 
avoid such dangers. I assume the Committee will make its own 
arrangements with respect to ex-employees as to whom I no 
longer have the authority to .direct their cooperation. However, 
I am available for whatever assistance I can provide in this 
regard. 
As you are aware, all employees of the Central Intelligence 
Agency are required to sign a secrecy agreement when they enter 
on duty. This is a condition of employment, and it requires 
that they keep forever secret all classified information gained 
during the course of their empioyment. The secrecy agreement 
further requires that they may not disclose classified informa­
tion,either orally or by publication, without prior authoriza­
tion from the Director of Central Intelligence. Under the 
secrecy agreement, an employee's obligations with respect to 
the protection of classified information continue after his 
employment with the CIA has been terminated. 
NW 38296 Docld:32989532 Page 116 J 
