) 
c. 
d. 
e • 
f. 
g. 
h. 
i. 
SECTION 107 •• URITY INFORM.Al{TS ,,:Tn r,ou-i:,-r-n-r.n.'TAT SOURCES .JU~ J.J \.I l'i J: ..L.J.J J:.I.L'I~ 107N 
( 2) 
(5) 
(12) 
Residence and employment (If no change since last justification 
letter, merely state "no change,") 
Current membership in subversive organizations 
Sum.~ary of information furnished and/or services rendered during 
pertinent period 
Amount paid for services and expenses by month 
(Initial justification letter should set forth amount, if any, 
ever paid under SAC authority.) 
Type and number of meetings attended and other activity 
Number of written and oral statements submitted 
(List separately.) 
Information furnished of unusual value 
.Approximate number of persons on whom informant furnished coverage 
and their importance . 
[Steps being taken to advance informant] 
Stabili·ty and reliabil~ty .••. 
{Set forth personal weaknesses, domestic difficulties~ indications. 
of untrustnorthiness or unreliability, or other similar problems 
presented by informant, and steps being taken to prevent any such 
situations from later becoming source of embarrassment to the 
Bureau.) 
Indoctrination against disclosure 
(State ~hether every opportunity has been taken to properly 
indoct1·· ,. -de informant agains·t making any disclosure of his 
relati, .lip with Bureau thro·ugh any media.)· 
.All ne • .ary a~tion taken on inf;rmatiori furnished 
I1iscel:.'. .. ous 
(Any other matters concerning inform~nt 1 s operation which should 
be brought to Bureau's attention) 
(Where applicable, substitute potential informant, confidential 
source, panel source, or source of informati~n for the word "informant.") 
When payment to an informant has been authorized for a definite 
period of time, advise the Bureau at least two weeks in advance of the 
expira·l;ion of the period for which payment has been authorized as to 
wheiher the services of the informant are to be continued. 
Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments, Follow form in 
subsection 3b. 
Letters requesting authority to continue (increase, decrease) payments 
to an informant should be submitted in duplicate except that the 
copy should consist only of the first page of the l~tter. When 
payments as requested by the field are approved, the single-page 
copy will be stamped "Approved" at the Bureau and returned. If the 
recommendation is not approved, correspondence will be prepared 
~nd transmitted to the field. 
In order for this system to function properly, payment letters must 
be explicit. 
When payments are authorized by the Bureau, it is the personal responsi­
bility of -each SAC definitely to as sure himself that full value is 
being received. 
Di soon tinuance of payments 
If at any time it appears the informati-on being' produced by the 
informant is not commensurate with the payments being made to him, 
the payments should be immediately discontinued or a.cl.justed accordingly 
and the Bureau promptly advised. 
Extraordinary expenses 
In connection with the operation of paid informants, if any extraor­
dinary expenses are anticipated for which approval has not been given, 
obtain specific Bureau authority, 
19 
5-12-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1516 
