13-00000 
SECRET 
in the front office of Task Force W - it was a big 
bullpen where we had four or five secretaries. Bill 
Harvey's office here [motions with his hands]. Bruce 
Cheever's office here. Mine over here, and the 
secretaries out in what we called the bullpen. There 
was a big section in here where we had a bunch of 
special assistants, and Charley Ford was one of those 
who sat in' here. There were about four or five guys in 
there doing all kinds of different things. Charley 
never, as far as I know, never·spoke. I know he never 
spoke to me about who he saw - what they talked about -
and I never never saw any intelligence information to 
disseminate, and as far as I know Charley never had any 
intelligence information to disseminate. To us it was 
a waste of time and effort, plus we were putting a man 
in real danger, since, from pure tradecraft point of 
view we wanted to control, the meeting time and the 
meeting place. We wanted to •set it up, and we don't 
want to walk into a hornet's nest without.knowing who 
or what we're seeing. I have mentioned this to several 
people, without mentioning Charley Ford's name until 
recently., and I' 11 tell you why in a minute. I 
mentioned it to Scott Breckenridge, and Scott mentioned 
it in his last book that he put out. I mentioned it to 
a fellow by the name of Goldfarb, who was an attorney 
on Kennedy's staff at the Justice Department, and 
Goldfarb wrote a book in which he quotes me on this, 
and then he also says he doesn't believe me and he 
doesn't know .why I'm making these kinds of stories up. 
MW: He's defending Bobby Kennedy. 
SH: Oh, absolutely, no question about that. I mentioned it 
to other people along the way and I even mentioned it 
to Seymour Hersh when he was putting his book together 
"The Dark Side of Camelot." If you look at, I forget 
what page it is, there's a footnote there. Sy was the 
one who found, in doing his researches, he found, as a 
result of the Kennedy Assassination Records Review 
Board, and all the documents that were produced as a 
result of that, Angie Novella, in her log - her 
appointment and telephone log for 1962 - puts down 
General Carter, Charles Ford (Fiscalini), for a date, 
for a meeting with Bobby Kennedy. I've got documentary 
proof now. I'd like to shove it under Goldfarb's nose, 
but anyway .... Hersh puts that as a footnote in his book 
in which he says until he, Hersh, was able to show me 
the log. I had always refused to mention the name of 
the individual who was the case officer. The fact that 
Kennedy was involved in trying to work with the Mafia 
at the same time .... He, Goldfarb, couldn't believe that 
Kennedy would be working with the Mafia at the same 
17 
SECRET 
