13-00000 
• I, 
assassination of President Kennedy will be significantly 
improved by the release of these records. 
Ironically, it was President John F. Kennedy who first 
required scheduled declassification in the release of Executive 
Branch national security information. Declassification schedules 
remained in effect until President Reagan eliminated the 
requirement in 1981, and President Bush persists in this same 
practice. It is likely that more government documents related to 
the Kennedy assassiRation could have been released over the past 
12 years if declassification was still a priority. It is also 
fair to say that the 1986 amendments to the Freedom of 
Information Act, including broad law enforcement exemptions, 
have narrowed the release of Kennedy assassination records by 
the FBI. 
The public interest in the history of the assassination 
of President Kennedy has been insatiable. In one noted 
bibliography, a total of 5,134 books, articles, reports, films, 
or television programs were produced on the subject between the 
years 1963 and 1979. The Library of Congress has over 250 
holdings on the subject. The FBI continues to receive reports, 
allegations, and requests for further investigation. Indeed, as 
Director Sessions may testify today, the FBI has recently 
located and interviewed two of the three "hobos" who were 
identified as witnesses of the shooting, as well as seven Dallas 
police officers who were not previously interviewed by 
government _investigators. 
The speculation about the assassination of President 
Kennedy may··be··more·-cruer"ttran--the truth ·itself.- ·rt is -a-rguabI"ei 
whether the disclosure of new information will dampen the 
speculation, but I hope that the breadth of information made 
available wil+ answer many questions and provide many history 
lessons. 
I view the Committee's mandate as determining whether the 
process for review and release of the records is fair and 
appropriate; and that exemptions, when needed, must be kept to a· 
minimum. The Department of Justice has told the Committee that 
it will recommend a presidential veto of the bill as written. I 
hope we can find a way to construct a process for release of 
assassination related re.cords that will be efficient and 
effective, will gain the confidence of the public, and will 
address concerns of the Justice Department that are legitimate. 
The authors of the bill are to be congratulated for 
working quickly to propose an independent and accountable 
mechanism to release records related to the assassination. 
However, we must carefully consider the parameters of the bill. 
I believe that the major issues include: 
- 2 -
