StCKtl 
-3-
Syndicate of -Free Dominican Labor in Exile (SLTDE), to organize picketing 
activities in San Juan against Ships carrying cargo to or from the 
Dominican Reoublic. The picketing had some success and showed· promise of 
becoming a threat to the Dominican '3conomy, but was finally broken up by 
the International Longshoremens Association (ILA), at least one officer 
of which was reportedly in the pay of Trujillo. 
. (2) Inasmuch as the ILA has recently abrogated its contract 
with the Dominican unions under pressure from George Meany it is felt that 
_now would be a good tilu1 to consider resumption of picketing activities. in 
San_ Juan, in the hope that such action might spark similar ·activities in 
other ports. -Trujillo has demonstrated an awareness of the importance of 
smooth labor relations in foreign ports and it is felt that a blow 
at this time from international labor would do much to bring the 
.dictator to his knees. 
(3) It should pe noted that the Department of State last summer 
disapproved any approach to U.S. unions on this subject. WHD feels 
that perhaps this announced policy should now be reviewed in the light of 
more recent developments and an a.ttempt be made, through covert channels 
if necessary, to build up an international shipping boycott against the 
GODR. 
III Conclusions· 
(1) In many respects initial t"alks with FCR and VRD leaders 
reveal that they over-estimate their own capabilities. Neither has an 
immediate capability·to introduce arins into the area or a finn plan of action. 
. (2) That we have indicated to both organizations our willingness 
to help has been a boost to their morale and has also precipitated a 
noticeable withdrawal from earlier claims of "all we need is arms and a 
little help and we can do the job". 
(3) Recent reports on internal conditions in the Dominican 
Republic clearly point out that the country is rapidly approaching a 
stage of complete economic paralysis, a situation that has created 
feelings of tension and desperation, not only among the opposition 
elements but within the ranks of the Trujillo clique itself. While sources 
within the middle class express fears of eventual liquidation of that 
class by the dictator and his son Ramfis, it is not likely that Trujillo 
will move until he lears of the outcome in late March 1961 of congressional 
action on the windfall sugar quota. If such ·action is favorable to 
Trujillo, it is probable-that he will continue to rule uneasily for an 
indefinite period unless material outside pressure is brought to bear 
SECRET 
~c._ 
