l ~ 
107R-S SECTIOH 107 •• CURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFIDE-AL SOURCES. 
3. Inde:;: 
a. Prepare index cards on form FD-348 and file as adjunct to criminal 
informant, extremist informant, or security informant index., depeuding 
on type information furnished. 
b. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with criminal 
i:::iformant, racial informant, and security informant index where 
logical. 
4. Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to prospective confidential· 
source, open 134 file {or 137 for criminal sources) and maintain as 
pending until efforts to develop individual are discontinued. 
5. Utilization . 
a. If con~idential source is to be used in ·security investigations, 
secure Bureau approval, and furnish background data of same ty~e 
required for potential security informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in which frequency 
of contact i~ dependent upon circumstances, contact confidential sources 
on whom pending files are maintained at least once e-:ery two weeks. 
• Such contacts may be posted. 
c. Contacts should only be made by Agent or Agents specifically designated 
for that purpose. 
d. Lei;ter to Bureau requesting authority to use subject as confidential 
source is to set out clearly: 
(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizen­
ship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest record, 
and service record, if any ' 
.{2) Details of expected cooperation of individual and results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
{3) Statement to effect subject is being considered confidential source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confidential 
nature of his relationship with Bureau. In addition, statement 
should be made that you will -be alert to be certain _subject is 
not a plant, and if he is connected with labor union he will be 
advised of Bureau policy on labor matters. 
(4} One copy of letter requesting authority should consist only of 
first page. If request is approved at Bureau, stamped notation 
to this effect will be placed on single-page copy and it w~ll be 
returned to field. 
6. Security confidential sources -· certification of stability and payments 
a. Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments. See subsection L, item 3b, above. 
b. If source is not being paid on Bureau authorization or if he is not 
employee of foreign diplomatic establishment or an international or~ 
ganization and is being used regularly, Agent handling must(certify 
stability and reliability by executing statement on this point 
contained on FD-209 used to record contact. Certification must be 
made at intervals of no longer than six months.] 
c. If source is employed by foreign diplomatic establishments (embassy, 
consulate, United Nations Mission, etc.) or by international organiza­
tion (United Nations Secretariat, Organization of American Sta·tes, 
International Monetary Fund, etc.), submit FD-401 to Bureau every 
six months. 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources. 
8. Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau of date when source is discontinued and reasons. 
S. PANEL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Background investigation and approval 
a. Check prospective panel source through office indices, canvass 
logical informants., review ap.propriate credit, arrest, and military 
[ records. [Limit credit check of individual to identifying informa.·tion 
[ only (name, address, former address, employment, former employment).] 
,..W 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1185 
22 
"10-13-71 
( 
I 
i 
• ! 
(_ 
