rn.ent? 
SECRE'l' 
Security Information 
( J) '!tJhat techniques are available to meet this require ... 
(a) To deliver a signal of such power as to,be 
heard above the jamming.. Here 111'"8 are at a disadvantage in that a 
lm-1=pa-.:1ered and inexpensive local jammer is capable of rendering , 
unintelligible a signru. of substllntially higher power from a distant 
pointo The greater the power of our t.ransmitter the more complicated 
the installation and the more expensiw the investmenta And the more 
dif.ficult becomes the cover and security problems as "&Jell as the 
political considerations involved in base negotiations.. Since the 
ensiftV is not required to equal our pm:rer with his jammers9 we would 
thc1~erore be fighting a. losing battle if we attempted to "slug it out 11 
on a power basis onlyo 
(b) Jamming evasion through the device of vary-
ing the frequency has so far proven to be an effective means of lay-~ 
ing dmm a signal that can be heard clearly despite jmaming.. This 
method requires constant dial changing by the listener and must 
assume therefore a desire on his part to hear the program sufficient 
to overcome t~1e annoyance of dial twisting.,, When used in combination 
'tlTi th appropriat,e progrmm:ning techniques and the use of two or more 
frequencies simultaneously ·this has so far proven to be the most 
effective means of jwmning avoidance@ 
Such frequency ahiftings cannot be accomplished 
wi,t!tln the legal rules la.id down for international. broadcasting .. 
T'pese must~- therefora 9 ba 11black 11 broadcasts in the sense tpat they 
can be credibly denied by our Government as well as the government 
of the host countey., The movement at will through various frequencies 
prodt:..ces an annoying interference for the listeners to broadcasters to 
whom those frequencies are legally assi,_-,:nedo This interi:"e::rence» while 
fully justified in the case of USSR and satellite assigned frequenciesi> 
must be avoided_ ir. • the case of frequencies assignsd to our friendso 
Our broadcas·t.s using this technique have so 
far avoided annoyance to friendly countries by the use of veey lm.r 
pm-rer., This lililits us to a small part of the .total Soviet Orbit 
target and that only on the neriphery., The same techniques can be 
used m. th higher power and at greater distances from the targeto 
To·u.void interference with friendly nations' broadcasts the base • 
must be located in an area which 11• with t,he proper antenna adjust ... 
ments» permits our signal to 0 sk:lp~' over the territ~ry of frien~ 
countries in its pat,h.. An example would .be that., given a transnu.tting 
.bas6 in Saudi Arabia for broadcasts to the USSR9 the racility ~ould 
have to be engineered so that its signal would not interfere with· 
local broadcast reception in '1'1.n"key and other friendly countries in 
ootucen" 
( e) The devel.opment of unconventional broadcasting 
techniques ro:r 
NW -~095.~ Docld.: 32424022 Page U. SECRET 
