13-00Q00 
.. -- TOP SECRET DINAR 
• Europe 
UK-US FRICTIONS OVER SHIPPING POLICY 
---------:----:---------,----:------:------:-----:----------~-·--,'I, 
r=-------8.1!--i-t-ish~shippin and off i_., Thus what are seen as 
.
1
cial circles are ncensed over American efforts to regulat87· 
recent US demands for informa- international shipping lines ~~I 
tion relating to rate discrim- order to improve the unfavorablI 
\nation against US exports. US balance of payments have 
Tihe British Government has ad- caused increasing rancor in 
vised against compliance on Britain. Before Parliament ad-1 
tbe grounds that this informa- journed for its Christmas reces 
t~on is commercially confiden- on 20 Dece~ber, some Conserva- \ 
tial, and that the US cannot tive MPs called for retaliator~ 
demand what the UK Government restrictions on US ships arriv-
cannot obtain. in~ at UK ports. Although the 
j 
MPs did not specify what re-
Following a recent con- strictions they had in mind, 
~ essional investigation into the government cannot afford 
a,leged rate discrimination in the present pre-election 
against American exports, the period to leave itself open 
US Maritime Commission asked to charges that it is not atten-
the North Atlantic Freight Con- tive enough to domestic interest. 
f•rence to explain the differ­
e~tials on a long ·1ist of items, 
s!tting a 20 January deadline 
! r compliance under penalty 
o I heavy fines. The US posi­
tibn is that US exporters are 
be!ing penalized because outward 
ra~es are higher on the average 
than the inward rates. 
· I British and other shipping 
lines regard the differentials 
steconomically justified. The 
i
o nage of US exports is much 
r· ater than import tonnage, 
, nd shipping lines--anxious to 
rv~id half-loaded or in-ballast 
estbound voyages--have tradi­
i~nally charged lower rates 
Of items imported into the US 
than for exports from this 
'': tpirn: ry . • 
The Douglas-Home government\, 
while hopeful of some compromise 
before the 20 January deadline, 
is busily lining up international 
support. At the recently con­
cluded conference of transport 
ministers of 10 European mari­
time nations, Britain proposed 
that Japan be invited to join 
the united front of European 
maritime countries in a general 
protest against US shipping 
policies, thereby aligning 
roughly three quarters of the 
world's shipping business against 
the US position. Japan agreed 
to do so, and the collective 
protest was filed with the 
State Department on 23 Decem-
ber. (CONFIDENTIALJiO.-F.OR;.. __ ____, 
IGN~DTSSEM) 
27 Dec 63 CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
Page 12 
