Review of :Manuel Tuzy Files 
Vol.u:I:ie :: v o:f xviii 
Page 2 
¥ 6. Memorandum for the Record 
Date: 5 May 1961 
·SECRET Betsy Palmer 
SUbject: Manolo Ray - Comn.ents on his .Anti-Castro Activities 
Signed:· Calvin Hicks WH/4/PM/Operations 
11Ray is balieved to have accomplished pratically nothing towards the effort 
to overthow castro. Instead, it seems that 'Whenever we played with his so­
called assets, we vrere burned. He is notorious for claiming assets or 
operations, several days after some other group had already set them up or 
claimed. them. Whenever it came to producing _and backing up his claillls, he 
al"Wl:cyS caine up with excuses for not producing, rather than results. He has 
al~ tended to try to take over other goups, rather than cooperate with 
them, and when he couldn't take them over he would "politic" against them. 
His actions all seemed to be direceed toward making hiI:I. the f'utu;re paver 
in CUba rather than toward overthrowing castro. It is believed that Manolo 
RAY is so :far 11lef't 11 in his thinking that he would be as dangerous (or more 
so in the long run) to United States interests as Castro, if' he.ever got to 
be the power in CUba." 
7. Memorandum for the Record 
SUbject: ¢#.1Jt1J/t Relations with Manolo Ray and the MRP 
Date: 2 June 1961~ 
Signed: [J_ames A. ['?,~~}/ 
In a l2 May 1961 meeting, Ray promises to write a prospectuz of' his plans 
for MRP within ten days. Hot received by 2 June, but Ernesto Betancourt 
is ask:i.Mfor financial support for MRP activities. Tracy Ba.mes agrees 
with~hat no money should be given Ray until his plans are studies. 
Ray is asking i'or support separate from FRD since Ray has withdrawn f'rom 
this group. ~her states in Memo, ".l.!.-I would like to pdlint out the 
security risks inherent in a:ny arrangementB' with ~BENTANCOURT-CISI·IEROS 
trio. These fellows have had easy access to the White House· and to the 
Department, a.re notorious for their 'planned lea.lm ', will probably presume 
aJ.l the Department of':ficiaJ.s they deal with are privy to the arrangement, and 
before we know it the whole exile community will be well aware that we are 
providing f'inancial and material support to the RAY group. 11 
':f" 8. Cable to Bell f'rom Garacas 
Date June 8, 1961 
On June 2, Venezuelas governenmt refused to issue a visa to lvl'.anolo Ray. 
9., Cable to Director f'rom Caracas, dated June 28, l9()l. re: meeting with 
Jose R. Barbeito on 20 June in Valencia. Barbeito claims was member of 
MRP of Manolo Ray and took part clandestine activities Havana. Admitted 
was communist "many years ago" but now completely opposed to Castro and 
Conrn.mism. 
SECRET 
