14-00000 
-ADMINISTRATIVE - INTE~DNLY 
assassination of President John F. Kennedy; the 
assassination itself; and investigations of or inquiries 
into the assassination. 
§ 1400.l(a). This language in overbroad in two respects. First, 
the phrase events that may have led to is both broader than 
relates to as in the Act and provides no articulable standard. 
For instance, the theme in the Oliver Stone movie JFK appears to 
be that President Kennedy was assassinated as a result of a 
conspiracy to keep the war in Vietnam from winding down. Under 
the proposed regulation, the Board might consider all records 
--- concerning the war in ·vietnam during· the Kennedy Administration - -
as being assassination records. Without a standard, the phrase 
is permits arbitrary and inconsistent application. Third, it 
includes information about investigations and inquiries other 
than those conducted by those entities identified in the Act. 
Although the Board states that it is following the intent of 
Congress in seeking the most comprehensive dis_closure of records 
related to the assassination, it appears the Board may be 
exceeding its authority. 
4. The definition further states that assassination record 
includes, without limitation ... all records as defined in Sec. 
3(2) of the ARCA. See§ 1400.l(b)(l). Thus, by its terms it 
exceeds the statutory definition. Further, it is unhelpful 
because by refusing to limit itself to any articulable class of 
records it remains unlimited and subject to constant 
re-interpretation by the Board. 
5. The proposed definition of additional infonnation and 
records under proposed§ 1400.2 is objectionable because the 
regulation does not provide the intended use of the definition. 
The Board may be attempting to provide a defini~ion useful in 
interpreting the Boards authority under §7(j) (1) (C) (ii) of the 
Act: 
The Review Board shall have the authority to act in a manner 
prescribed under this Act including authority to ... direct 
a Government office to make available to the Review Board, 
and if necessary investigate the facts surrounding, 
additional information. records, or testimony from 
individuals, which the Review Board has reason to believe· .is 
required to fulfill its functions and responsibilities under 
this Act .... 
(Emphasis added.) If this is the case, the Board _should _ 
expressly so state and provide opportunity for informed comment 
on that application. For i_I].stance, _proposed § 1400 ._2 (a) includes 
all documents used by the agency during its declassification 
review. This definition could include requests for legal advice 
on particular matters. Such advice would ~e protected within the 
particular agency by attorney-client privilege and should not be 
provided to an extra-agency body. 
ADMINISTRATIVE-lrRNAL USE ONLY 
( 
