13-00000 
SECRET 
27. Speech by Ronald Van Doren. Mr. Van Doren seems to be a 
follower of Governor Wallace. He began by commenting on the sad 
situation in a country with a judiciary where individuals nave to make 
conjectures regarding a case as obvious as that of Bremer. There is 
no doubt that Bremer pulled the trigger. But one should examine the 
political situation at the time of his action. Wallace was by far the· 
leading candidate in the election campaign, a threat to other candidates, 
and he was winning the nomination. He represented a challenge to 
both parties. Nothing he said could be interpreted as racist, and in 
the economic sense he carried wide appeal. The question which faced 
the other candidates was how he could be stopped from disrupting the 
two parties and from preventing the re-election of the President. 
History will show how he was stopped and why this occurred. 
28. The case in defense of Wallace's civil rights was quietly 
dropped. No proper investigation was conducted. As usual in 
assassination cases there was a diary. It showed that Bremer was 
acting alone and was deranged. Read as a piece of literature, the 
diary presents Bremer as a non-person, an illiterate unable to spell. 
There is nothing regarding the people he worked with. Meanwhile, if 
one examines Bremer's background, he appears an entirely different 
person. Why did he .travel repeatedly to Ottawa? How did he manage 
to carry guns on planes? What was he doing in New York? Why was 
he in Washington? And where did he get his funds? The apartment 
he rented exceeds his annual income. His mother could not afford 
to visit him in prison, yet he dressed well. With whom was he 
. involved1 
29. All this should be looked into. Watergate brought the 
electoral campaign to the fore. Why has discussion of the Bremer 
shooting been excluded from the investigation? Bremer-was a part 
of the 1972 campaign, yet there is no mention of Wallace or of 
Bremer. Two years from now Wallace will be back. 
30. Speech by Ms. Meredith Rode. Ms. Rode was ~ery brief. 
She said she became interested in the killing of George Lincoln Rockwell 
in 1970, and that the case was built on circumstantial evidence exclusivdy. 
The case is still open, for the police believe that there was an accomplice. 
No funds are available for defense. / 
s 
§ECRET 
