Set out below are items of particular inteiest which 
have been reported in more specific terms by Mri. Wiley 
to assist Chief, SRS and are set forth below fo~ 1 record: • l : 
Wiley reported that MRR source who was interrogated 
s.aid that a man 'FNU Gorky Has a Russian or East German 
who sits in on all interrogations of political prisoners 
at the G-2 Headquarters Building. According to Wiley, 
this man does not speak Spanish and his source could fur­
nish no description. 
According to Wiley, an MRR source told him that he 
had received the following information from another MRR 
man who worked at the place mentioned. This source re­
ported that there were twenty crated MIG fighter planes 
at the San Antonio 11bath 11 (h.iley could not recall the 
Spanish word used here). This source stated that this 
was an air base built by the U.S. Government. The source 
further reported that he had heard that between 30 and 35 
Cuban pilots were presently in Czechoslovakia on a seven 
months training course getting instructions for £lying 
the aforementioned MIG fighters. 
• Wiley stated that he had given full details concerning 
the Soviet freighter that had come in with the large crates 
to Assistant Chief, SRS. Wiley stated that it was most 
interesting that his source told him that the freighter 
had come through Cuban customs and into the harbbr without 
any routine harbor clearance and had swung immedtately into 
its berth along side one of the Havana docks. A~cording to 
Wiley the source was one of the longshoremen wholhad been 
impressed to unload this Soviet freighter. The crates un­
loaded were enormous being 70 feet long approxim4tely. 
Source also stated that one of the crates had brqken but 
because of the careful packing of whatever it cotjtained, 
source was unable to identify its contents. Accdrding to 
Wiley, these huge crates were placed on big trucUs and were 
taken to specific areas, each one accompanied by 
1
jeeps . 
. Wiley himself could offer no explanation of the crates or 
what they were made of nor the size or capacity of the trucks 
that moved these large crates. Apparently Wiley's source 
could furnish no additional details other than those given 
to Assistant Chief, SRS. 
-25-
SEP ~O, lffi, 
C.lt\ 
,. .. .. ... . ' --·--·.. '· l 
' I' \ ,, j. 
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 28 
