107U 
[ 
[ 
r 
[ 
r 
SECTION 107. SEC~ INFORMANTS .AND CONFIDENTIA 
. - . 
5. Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used for assistance in security 
or racial inves·higations, secure. Bureau approval, and background 
data must be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is 
required for potential security and potential racial informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in which the 
frequency of contact is dependent upon circumstances of the individual 
case, confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained should 
also be contacted at least once every two weeks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
c. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted. 
d, Contacts with confidential sources should o~ly be made by the Agent 
or Agents specifically designated for that purpose. 
e. The letter to the.Bureau requesting authority to use a subject 
as a- confidential s·ource is to set out cl~arly the following informa­
tion: 
(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, 
citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest 
record, and service record, if any 
(2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together with the results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
( 3) A statement to the_ effect subject is being considered a con­
fidential source and that he will be advised he is not a 
Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
ship with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should-be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters, 
f. [One of the required copies of the ~etter requesting authority to use 
a subject as a confidential source should consist only of the first 
page of the letter,] If the request is approved at the-Bureau~ a 
stamped no.ta tion will be placed on the [single-page] copy and [it will 
be]returned to the fielJ indicating that authority is granted to 
consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subject is 
sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background information 
obtained, . 
6. Security and racial confidential sources - certification of stability and 
payments 
a. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and racial 
confidential sources, See 107N, 3b, for form of letter. 
b. If the security or racial source is not being paid on Bureau authoriza­
tion and is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source must 
dictate a memorandum to the SAC ror the file containin~ the same 
certification as to stability and reliability as required by payment 
letters. 
7; Gifts 
Gifts to sources shall not be reclaimed as blue siip items. 
8. Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau when confidential source is discontim.ied, and the reasons 
therefor. 
28 
. ,. 
