., .,,. ( 
i' i 
I 
l 
!' l 
' . 
.• 
1 
t I' 
l !, 
" .. 
1 ! i, 
' ,, 
L 
i• 
t 
( 
( 
( 
[ 
T. 
3. 
SECTIO!f le SECURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONF.TI.AL SOURCES. 107'S-T 
b. If no pertinent derogatory information is developed~ initial contact 
may be made with prospective panel source to ascertain cooperative­
ness;. however, in regard tQ indi vidua.ls associated with educational, 
institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning investi­
gations on campuses, 
c. Submit[secure teletype (Nitel)]to Bureau requesting-authority to use 
individual as a panel source and set ·out: . 
(1) Results ·of background investigation and data as to date and 
place of birth, citizenship status if foreign ~orn, resid~nce 
and employment addresses 
(2) Details of expected area of activity of individual as panel 
so·J.rce and results of any interviews cond.ucted with him 
(3) Statement to effect subject is being considered panel source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confi­
dential nature of his relationship with Bure~u. Also, state~ 
ment should be made that you will be alert to be certain sub­
ject is not a plant and, if connected with labor unio~ -0r 
educational institution, he will be advised of Bureau policy 
on such matters. 
(4) One copy of letter should consist only of first page. If 
approved at Bureau, stamped notation indicating Bureau approval 
will be placed on single-page copy and it will be returned to 
field. 
Administrative handling 
a. Follow same procedure in handling, processing, and report.ing data and· 
material furnished by panel sources as afforded security informa.nts. 
b. Handle.payments for legitimate expenses incurred and services rendered 
in same manner as security informanis. Gifts should not be given to 
panel sources. . . 
c. Open 134 file when active investigation of prospective panel source 
initiated. Close file administratively if panelist is not contacted 
regularly. Note contacts with panelists in their respective files. 
d. Only Agents designated in particular case should contact panelists. 
e. Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation ·of 
payments to panel source. If source not paid on Bureau authorization, 
Agent handling prepare memorandum to SAC for file containing certi­
fication as to stability and reliability. 
f. A symbol number should be assigned from the· time any step is taken 
to develop an individual as a panel source. Use abbreviation "PS" 
before symbol·number, e.g., PS NY 000-S. 
g. Designate, where practicable, coordinating Agent to maintain current 
roster of panel sources and scheduled organization a.c_tivities, who 
will notify Agents handling individual :panelists of or·ganizational 
functions to be covered. Coordinating Agent should receive notice of 
coming events from Agents handling organizations, in.formants, and 
pub li cations • 
h. Advise Bureau of date panel source is discontinued and reasons. 
DOUBLE AGENT OPERATIONS 
l. Pa. s sage of inf orma ti on 
a. In double agent operations information requested by principals is 
frequently passed either to build up double agent 1 s stature or as 
evidence of espionage activity. 
b. Each case must be carefully evaluated to make certain that net 
gain accrues to U. s. 
c. Information passed should be carefuily handled and logical explana­
tions created for its acquisition by double agent. 
2. Locating information to pass 
Where possible field office handling double agent should locate appropriate 
information; however, Bureau can assist in fulfilling requests for infor­
mation in possession of other Government agencies. 
3. Obtaining Bureau authority 
Bureau a.uthority must be obtained to pass any information in double 
agent operation except: 
a. Newspaper or magazine article 
23 
8-14-72 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1724 
