13-00000 
• ··- -·-------------------------------------------
I • 
The ·magazine of the design, applications, and implications of 
information processing systems - and the pursuit of truth in 
Input, output, and processing, for the benefit of people. 
World Affairs and Social Policy ( continued) 
33 Virtue. in Spite of Erroneous Conceptions [NT A] 
by J. P. Frankel, Dean of the Faculty, Harvey Mudd 
College, Claremont, Calif. 
Which projects and problems should scientists work on? 
and which projects and problems should receive support 
by the government and which from other sources? 
The Profession of Information Engineer and the Pursuit of Truth 
~--
3'!:unsettling, Disturbing, Critical [NT F] 
Statement of policy by Computers and Automation 
3 The Pursuit of Important Truth [NT F] 
by Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor 
Four kinds of truth that are regularly unexplored and 
unmentioned. 
38 Nixon and the Mafia - Conclusion [NT A] 
by Jeff Gerth, SunDance Magazine, San Francisco, Calif. 
The many connections of President Richard M. Nixon 
with organized crime, scandal, etc. 
26 Burying Facts and Rewriting History - II [NT A] 
by Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor, Computers and Automation 
Taken together the information published May 1970 to 
November 1973 in Computers and Automation effectively 
destroys a large segment of the beliefs, the rewritten history, 
that the establishment in the United States has arranged for 
the people in the United States to believe. 
28 Political Assassinations in the United States [NT R] 
Inventory of 41 articles published in Computers and 
Automation May 1970 to October 1973 on the assassi­
nations of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert 
Kennedy, Reverend Martin Luther King, and other polit­
ically important persons in the United States: titles, 
authors, and summaries. 
rJ The Watergate Crimes [NT R] 
Inventory of 12 articles published in Computers and 
Automation August 1972 to September 1973 on the 
burglarizing of the Democratic National Committee offices 
in the Watergate Building, Washington, D.C., June 17, 
1972, and _the ramifications: titles, authors, and summaries. 
Computers, Puzzles, and Games 
35 Numbles [T CJ 
by Neil Macdonald 
Corrections . 
For changes in "The Path to Championship Chess by Computer" by 
Professor Donald Michie published in the January 1973 issue of 
Computers and Automation, see page 23 of this issue, or page 24 of 
the July issue. 
For changes in the reprinting and the indexing of "Communication -
Three Wav: Chimnanzee. Man. Comouter".oublished in the Julv issue. 
Three eighth graders - each from 
a different continent - are working 
together to solve complex mathe­
matics problems. They are at the 
new United Nations International 
School, and are Laurence Ling May, 
a Chinese-Thai American; Catharina 
Nilson of Stockholm, Sweden; and 
Arun Al~gappan of India. The 
minicomputer system is a gift from 
Digital Equipment Corp. For more 
information, see page 43 of the 
July 1973 issue. 
Departments 
42 Across the Editor's Desk -
Computing and Data 
Processing Newsletter 
60 Advertising Index 
50 Calendar of Coming Events 
32 Classified Advertisement 
48 Monthly Computer Census 
46 New Contracts 
47 New Installations 
23 Statement of Ownership 
Key 
[A] - Article 
[CJ - Monthly Column 
[E] - Editorial 
[F] - Forum 
[NT] - Not Technical 
[R] - Reference 
• [Tl - Technical 
NOTICE' 
•D ON YOUR ADDRESS IMPRINT 
MEANS THAT YOUR SUBSCRIP­
TION INCLUDES THE COMPUTER 
DIRECTORY. "N MEANS THAT 
YOUR PRESENT SUBSCRIPTION 
DOES NOT INCLUDE THE COM• 
DI ITC 0 n1 QCrTnQv • 
