C. 
( 
( 
NW 
r 
[ 
e • 
f. 
• ' 
Employment i.ey facilities 
Individual emp oyed in or having access to 
alleged to h~ve been at any time member of 
o:t<ganization 
:~ 
k:,,.f.acility who is 
any basic revolutionary 
Other individuals with revolutionary beliefs 
Individuals who, because of anarchist or revolutionary beliefs, are 
likely to seize upon nat~onal emergency to endanger public safety 
and welfare. Membership or affiliation in basic revolutionary or 
front groups not prerequisite. 
Above standards are not all-inclusive. Resolve doubts ·in interest of 
security and conduct investigation. 
·Complaints from anonymous sources alleging subversive activities sho~ld 
be considered as basis for investigation .. 
Security cases must be evaluated continually to determine if we are 
fulfilling responsibilities in internal security field and those cases 
not warranting further investigation should be closed promptly. 
5. Restrictions upon investigations of individuals 
Do not institute investigations because of membership i_n organizations.· 
which do not advocate use of· force to bring about changes in existing 
Government; e.g., Socialist Party, Independent Workers of the World, and 
'Independence Party of Puerto Rico. 
a. Investigations of and· interviews with individuals connected with 
institutions of learning • 
(1) Prior Bureau authority required to institute investigation of 
faculty members. 
{2) 
(3) 
Bureau authority not needed for student or nonacad·emic employee 
provided no unusual circumstances exist which would reauire 
advice from Bureau prior to investigation and there is sound 
basis for investigation. In requests for Bureau authority, 
identify subject, his position, and basis for investigation. 
Contacts during investigation • . 
(a) After Bureau authority granted, it is permis~ible to 
contact: • 
I. Established sources functioning in an administrative 
capacity, such as registrar, director of admissions, 
dean of men, dean of women, and security officers and 
their subordinates. Contacts may be made on campus. 
Other established sources and informants. must be 
contacted away from campus. 
II. All individuals not connected with institutions of 
learning who, consistent with discretion, would be 
contacted in security case, s·ucb, as neighbors and past 
employers. . 
{b) No contacts are to be ma.de with students, graduate students, 
a.nd professors (other than sources outlined above) at 
educational institutions without prior Bureau authority. 
When re'questing authority, give full justification, 
individual's name, position, and statement concerning·his 
discretion and reliability. 
(c} Superiors of faculty members should not be-contacted. 
Receiving voluntary information 
These instructions must not deter immediate interview of any 
person connected with institution of learning who desires to 
furnish information to FBI or be contacted by an Agent. 
19 
4-13-72 
Page 
I I 
i 
I I 
• ! 
i I I ·1 
I 
I 
I 
.j 
I 
l 
