13-00000 
.• 
L 
,ua I.UC. '-'V.U,6<1-',;Def CUIU -... uguc;wc 1.1&\il .... ·l,]I 
J;:Oing to be a. rapid creatina or thi~ 
new department and a ,heavy emphasis 
~n the importance of energy questions 
to our people. • 
We will also present to the American 
people. probably at a joint session of 
the Congress a .speech by me about 
April 20, a comprehensive energy poli­
cy which would involve all the com~ 
plex:ities of the energy question. 16 
·something that's Jong overdue and it's 
. going to be quite profound in its impact 
on the American consciousness and our 
society, ·and I hope it will be compre•. • 
hensive enough so that it can be well­
ba'lanced and fair to all. 
, We are quite concerned about the 
pres:;ures of m;,ation. ·rne advisers to 
1111e on economics are trying to assess 
all Government programs .. and private 
actions that contribute to iriflationary 
• fressures. When this ·imalys·is is d'One 
will use every means that I • have 
:available to me to express· these con­
cerns and possibly_ correcUve action$. 
to :tihe Amen.can peoj:![e as wel:I. , • 
And the last- point is that we wHl 
J,CnrA .a· . .r.t'llft"l.1"111AtA; 11na:h,c:icz nntf~ru,~v 
A)Q\Y on deregulation. And. the first 
question !is the deregulation of the air 
Hn~. Legisla.tion is in the Congress 
DQW. We'H ..l>e--6ubmitting a -«Mifsage -
to Congress very shortly on that sub-
• je.ct. We will not submit administration 
legisla;tion because the Congress has 
already moved subsf.;_ntially forward in 
dealjng with this important..issue. 
And now I'd like to answer questions •. 
Mr. Franlt Cormier. 
~; i Questi~ns and i\nswers . • V , 1.~ D .fense Budget . 
. •. Q. Mr. Pre~ident, you told the Demo­
cratic Platform. Committee that you 
thought present defense expenditures 
i::OUld •be reduced 'by .five to seven bil­
~ion rlollars. Now I think you may have 
_modified your position somewhat since 
then. Obviously 1n. your short time in 
office you. didn't find the opportunity 
to make cu~s like that in your precedes­
sor's budget. But isn't it also likely 
that next year's budget for the defense 
wiH exceed thi·s year's. 
• A. Well because of inflationary'pres­
sur.es and •because of an impossibility 
of assessing the potential threat 'to our 
country from other nations, it's hard 
to predict exactly what the level of 
oefense spending will be. In the- short 
time that we had ava.Hable to work 
on the previous· Administration's budg­
et-about three weeks of lhard· work­
we were able to reduce the suggested 
expenditures by almost .$3 btllion. I 
think about $2.75 billion. 
This was done-and I .think Senator 
Stennis in his recent public statements 
has confinned that it bas been done 
without weakening· our own deferise 
capability. And the substantial savfogs 
in defense spending that wiU still leave • 
us muscle will be in such things as 
the standardization of • weap011s, · long­
range planning, a more businessl,ike al­
location .of defense contracting, an as-. 
sessment: of the defense contracts fci.r 
construction or repair already out-
standing. . • 
• · A reassessment of priorities of the 
evolution of new weapons which in -the. 
futirre can become enonnous1y expen­
sive;· a longer ass,igrunent of military 
personnel to a base before they are 
transferred; some emphasis on the ·coi-~ 
rection of inequities and unfairnesses 
in the retirement system. • 
These things obviously can't be done 
in three weeks, -but they will be an· 
ongoing effort on ni.y part. ·And I think 
the 1979 budget, which wiH be my Ad-
mini.i;::,t.ratinn'c: ft.-C!'t ""'""',... .... " .... :11 -'- - -
oth'er nations. ·sometimes·-otner Gov.;-· 
ernn\ents cooperate with us fully; 
sometimes they don't. 
But I'll try to be .sure, and so will 
Stan: Turner, who will be the next 
director of the inte!Hgence comm.un\ty. 
He will try to ,be sure that every thm~ 
we do is not only proper and legal, 
but also compatible with the attitudes 
of the American people. 
One other poirit I'd like to make is 
.this .. It ican be extremely damaging to 
our relationshi-p with other nations, to 
the potential security of our country 
even in peacetime, for these kinds of 
operations which are legitimate and 
proper to I?e rPvealed. ~t rnal".,..s it hard 
ro-r US t() la}' ,t, ,gfvUJiU.'\.t,lli', .-.,11 wnhu 
we might predicate a successful meet­
ing of a threat to -us in time of war 
if we don't have some degree of secre- • 
cy. . 
ihere are-:-deprTvatfcins-·of'human· ngnG 
even more brutal than the ones on 
which we've commented up to now. 
In Uganda the actions there have dis• 
gusted ·the entire civilized world and, 
as you know, we have 'l'lo diplomatic 
relationships y,ith Uganda. But h,, e is 
an instance where both Ambassador 
Andrew Young and I have expressed 
great concern about what is there. The 
Briti&h are now considering asking the 
United Nations to go into Uganda to 
assess the horrible murders that :,niar­
ently are taking place in that country­
the persecution of tlwse. who havo 
aroused the 1rl ;if Mr. Amin. 
l'vP. pxn.r;" .. • 1 n1v rn"'r-ern ahl. • 1·r1~ 
1)risoncd p ,:1,• ,, _;ri .. ,i:rs in. ,, ..... 1 
Korea, in Cun,,. in many countri• ·--111 
several countrirs, rather,-in :, ,1,th 
America and I'll continu,.. to do so. I 
have never 11ad an .inclination lo single 
out the Soviet Union as the only place 
where humain rights are being abridged. 
I'm quite concerned about the num-. 
ber of people now who have acce~s 
to this kiad of information, And I've 
been working very, closely with the 
Congressional leaders, yesterday aild 
- We have, I think, a responsibility and 
a legal right to expres~ ~µr disapproval' 
of violations of human nghts. The Hel 
s"tri"J{l J\1;1'Ct.7i1":.i'~~ .. , ~- ~--.11."'~ 1:1.?:~.lr.~t:: • todar 1 to trv to reducP. .the overall num-
, her or jjeople who have access to the 
sources of it1.forma.tion that within the 
bounds ·that. l'Ye.c:d,esctjbed-pr-Opriety-• 
·andlegalit) arid American attitudes to­
ward seen•· ,-I'll, do th!'.' best I can 
not ever tc make a mistake. And I'm 
als·o assuming on a .continuing basis 
a, direct pc•-:;onal reponsibility for the 
operation of •aJJ the ingelligence agen­
cies in our Government to make sure 
that they are meeting these standards. 
_. 3 .. Correcting: Eri·ori, OJ\ c.r.A. . :.. . . 
Q: If there has· been erroneous infor­
mation, wouldn't. it behoove you to cor-
rect the .record? • 
A. In :·somie ways we are correcting 
the record, but Jf I began to either dis­
pute or confirm every individual story 
that's written whether correct or er­
roneous on every matter relating ... to 
• the C.I.A., then these matters which 
are necessarily sec:ret would no 'longer 
be secret, so l'm .. not going to comment 
on individual item9 that relate to intel-
Hgence. . 
4. Difference With Meany 
Q. Mr; President; George Meany says 
he won't go along with your idea for 
pre-notification on wage and price in­
creases. And my question really is, how 
hard, are you going to press Mr. Meany 
to go along and do you have anything 
else ,in mind that you could use in 1lhe 
way -of Government involving itself to 
try to control inflation? • 
A. I announced earlier my fi'rm com'-: 
mitment not to have mandatory• wage 
and price Jaws or authority, nQt to have 
;standby. wage and price authority. I've 
not made any proposal to· Mr. Meany 
or· any· other labor leader nor to any • 
representative of. industry or ma~ufa_c­
turing. But I. will retain the option m 
the future of assessing what we need 
to do to control inflation. 
I've emphasized always the word 
"voluntary." And to the extent that 
I can arrive at a common understand­
ing with industry _and labor lead_ers that 
a ceitain amount. of cooperation and 
i,nformation can- be exchanged before 
a miajor proposal is _made. I _think that:s 
. a legitimate pursuit of mme. I can t 
force it.· It's got ·to be voluntary. And 
that's as far as I can go with my an­
swer. 
5; Wage-Pl'ice G'uidelines 
Q. You mean ius·t directlv abouf wa1rn 
Three Provision, insures: that some of 
these human rights shal!'be preser!'ed: 
We are a signatory of the Helsmk1 
,agreement. We are oui-sel_v~s culpable 
in som•o ways for not g1vmg people 
adequate rights to move around our 
country· or res~r\cti'1,1g unnec~ssarHy, in 
my opinirin, v1s1tat1011 to, this co_u~try 
b:y those who disagree v1th us p0l,ucal­
ly. 
So I th;,1k that we all ought to take 
a position in. our own c~unt.r 1 and 
among our fnends and alhes, among 
our potential a~versaries: that human 
rights is _so_methmg on. ~~1ch we should 
bear a m<11or respons1b1hty for leader-­
ship_ And I have made it ~lear to thr 
Sovjet Union and· to others m the East• 
ern Eu-ropl':'.an community that T'.11'! !lot 
trying to launch a unilateral cr1t1c1sm 
of them•, that 1'm trying to set a s_tand· 
ard in our own country and make my 
concerns expressed thr~ughout the 
world, not singled out. agamst any par­
ticular country. 
Q. Mr. President, the othe~ day. gel­
ting back to· this CJ.A. thmg, whm 
-that story broke your Press Secretary, 
when he issued what amounted lo a 
"no comment" by the White House. 
someone asked nim if this story had 
broken back during the campaign when 
.you were running for Presiden:., would 
you have given. a similar response? And 
he said "well I don't' know.'• Sf) c.1n 
I ask you, what would have be,)r, y01.,:-· 
response? W0uld it have· been 1.hc­
sarne? A. J don't know. 
7. Review of C.I.A. Activities 
Q. Mr. Pr~sident, on that same s_uh­
ject, you sa•;d earlier that yo11· r•:v1_ew 
of C.I.A. activities had found nothmg 
.illegal o·r improp~r and yo!.! _later gaid 
that these activities- are leg1tmute and 
proper. Isn't that a v~lue j~dgme_nt tl1at 
the American publ.1c might like to 
share? But •how can they if y0•1 refus" 
to' give them a1~y id~a of :,-,·,,at r011 
ihave discovei:ed dur· ,1g thts review 
about payments, ;ncluding ones made 
in secret? 
A. That is a va1ue judgment. It's made 
by the ~ndependent Intelligence Over­
sight Board, which w_as established an_d 
appointed by Pres1d,~nt Ford. Th11; 
beard ha-s made itself avaHable to thC' 
Inspector General and to any rmployre 
within the CJ.A. or within the defense 
intelligenc~ agencies o-r a1,1y other to. 
receive. even rumors of 1mnrr,11r1<>tv. 
