) 
11,., 
120 
13. 
:14. 
15. 
SECTION 107. lcrRITY DiFORM.ANTs AND coNFIDENT'r, souRcEs 107Q. 
such activities, the Bureau will consider placing him in contact 
with a 1·eli?~ble publisher, but it must b.e made clear to the inform­
ant that the Bureau will not sponsor or endorse any book or publi-
cation which he elects to write. . 
All payments to discontinued security informants and confidential 
sources must be made on a strict c.o.d. basis. Obtain Bureau author­
•ity before making any such payments. In requesting Bureau authority 
for payments of this type, submit complete details as to the infor­
mation furnished by the discontinued informant or source in the past 
and what is to ba e.xpected of the informant or source in the future 0 
Once an informan ~ -5 s exposed in any manner wha·tsoev'er he is no longer 
to be carried as a concealed source•in reports or memoranda. His 
"true name is to be set forth., together with descriptive data.. 
When an office reoei ves information concerning, or obtains information 
from, an ex-informant, copies of memoranda prepared must be furnished 
to the office which originally handled the informant so that the file 
of the ex-informant will be as complete as possible. 
When an infoTmant has been discontinued for cause, such as unreliabil­
ity, he should not be contacted in the future for information. If 
such an individual furnishes information it should be accepted, but in 
setting out the information in reports or communications use the 
individual 1 s true n~me, together with an appropriate description of his 
reliability. 
Remove flash notice pe~ section F, 6. 
Repeated _use of the sa.me discontinued informant as a witness at security 
trials and hearings should be avoided. Make an all-out effort to develop 
witnesses who can furnish the same testimony as that expected of previously 
used 1-dtnesses" Advise Bureau of any indication by Government attorneys 
th~t an informant-witness who has previously testified will be called 
upon for testimo1iy at a subsequent trial or hearing and furnish your 
comments concerning possibility of supplanting the testimony of individual 
invobred. Submit communication under appropriate case character. 
Every effort should be made to prevent a discontinued informant from 
becoming involved in situations which may prove embarrassing to informant 
or the Government,, Immediately after he testifies for the first time, a 
serious talk should be had with informant by the SAC in the presence of 
the ~,gent who handled the informant. This interview should be conducted 
in the fi.eld office and informant told ·that: 
a. He uill no lo.nger be operated by ·!;he Bureau 
b O Since he is a public figure, he will probably be contacted by 
representatives of the press, radio, and television for interviews and 
2.ppearances 
c 0 He may be sought as a witness by congressional committees, by the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and by state authorities 
d. (Firmly stress.) In connection with such interviews and appearances, 
informant must continue to be factual and truthful and must not build 
up or embellish the statemeats, for if he does so he will wind up in 
::i erious t:rouble. 
Advise Bureau results of such interview and comment on its possible 
effe0tivcness. 
Be alert to the possibilities of former informant being contacted by 
representatives of publicity media and as a witnes& by 0ongressional 
comrr.ittees, INS, and state authorities. It will be the SAC1 s respon­
sibility to knol'r vrhen a former informant is scheduled or is likely to 
appear at a hearing or make a public appearance of any kind. Prior 
thereto in each insi;ance, former informant must be contacted and instruc­
tions abov·e set forth reiterated by Agent who handled the informant. 
Emph;,size to former infor:nant that he must stick to the truth ancl make 
cert~,_in he can back up what 1:e says, and if there is any deviation he 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1508 
25 
1-16-61 
.• \ 
