--
\j-
--
SECRET Classification:· -----------
(This form is to be used for material extracted 
from CIA--controlled documents.) 
3 of 9 pages 
Chief Directorate of the KGB would suspect any such American from the 
beginning as being CIA connected. He said the CIA at thit point knew 
a lot about the KGB and its thinking because they had had experience 
with displaced persons from the communist bloc. 
Casasin explained further that American intelligence interests 
were much more short range than the type of slow, long-range project 
of working an American defector into some sensitive or intelligence­
productive position within the Soviet Union. He said that was simply 
not the American way of conducting intelligence and that that thinking 
precluded such programs. 
Casasin said lessening of tensions between the United States and 
the Soviet Union from such things as the Spirit of Camp David did 
allow some shallow penetration. This consisted primarily of using 
short-term tourists and foreigners on legitimate business within the 
Soviet Union. But he said these projects had no direct or obvious 
effects on our intelligence gathering against the Soviet Union. 
I referred Casasin to CIA Document 435-173-A, which is a memo ' 
dated 25 November 1963 from Thomas B. Casasin to Walter P. Haltigan 
on Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald. Casasin says he does remember the memo. 
I asked him to explain the cover memo dated 12 December 1963 by Robert 
G. Lamprell to Chiefs of SR and WH re: GPFLOOR-Lee Harvey Oswald. 
3 Casasin explained that Lamprell (whose real name was{E.illiam Roberj 
Sinclaif} he died of cancer a few years ago) was one of Casasin's J 
contacts in Paris. He said th~t Lamprell was the Senior Officer in 
the Soviet Office in the Paris Stati9n, and served as the second in3 
comm~d. Casas in said that Wa
1
l ter Hal tigan (whose real name was {j_ames ' 
Flin!J was his normal contact in Paris. He surmised that his memo 
was sent out by Lamprell because Haltigan might not have been available 
He does not know the reason for the delay between the date of his 
memo, 25 November, and the transmission by Lamprell, 12 December. 
Casasin said he recalls that he wrote the memo spontaneously 
when he heard a news cast about Oswald after the assassination. He 
recognized Oswald when he heard the news information that Oswald had 
lived in Minsk in the Soviet Union and had married a foreigner. He ~ 
rem~mbered those details from State Department information he had seen., 
Casasin explained the cryptonym REDWOOD as clandestine operations; 
the Chief of the SR Division was responsible for that project. He 
explained that was separate from the REDCAP program, which was operatiod 
against Soviets outside of the USSR. , 
Casasin explained the relationship of the Counterintelligence 
Classification: -----------
SECRET 
