(107F SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMAN~S[AND CONFIDENTIA~ SOURCES] 
h. Any ~rrangements ft paying informant or personall,contaoting him 
must be specific and no doubt should be left in the minds of either 
the Agent or informant as to the methods of payment, amount, place, 
and time. 
i. Informants should be instructed to use only public telephones in 
communicating with contacting Agent and consideration should be -given 
to furnishing informants the unlisted office telephone number for 
[ emergency communication. [This rule is not practical ·in all espionage 
[ and foreign nationality matters but should be followed where applicable.] 
j. Positive informatio11 received from informant should be the subject 
of a written statement by informant or a memorandum ~repared by 
contacting Agent to be placed in the informant's subfile and 
appropriately channelized. 
k. Record dates of all contacts, whether negative or positive, in inform­
ant's administrative file, Memorandum or form FD-209 may be used. If 
informant·contacted frequently, one memorandum or form may:be used for 
• several· contacts. • . 
1. The dates of negative contact~ and file numbers 9f _the caires ·i:irvol...;.ed 
must appear in informant I s administrative file •. Where a file 'has more 
than one subject, the name of the subject under inquiry should also 
be noted, Do not set forth title of the case involved on·the form. 
m. If positive. information received from informant, show only dates of 
contacts in informant's administrative file. Place positive informa­
tion in informant's subfile and appropriately channelize ~ame. 
n. Alternate Agent should be designated for contacts with informan~ and 
former should be thoroughly acquainted with informant so tl).at contacts 
may be handled by alternate Agent in absence of Agent to whom· inform- • 
ant is assigned. 
( -5. (Checking reliability] . 
a. Reliability of informants must be constantly checked. 
b. Consideration should be given to use of any investigative technique 
deemed necessary to be certain they are completely reliable and are 
furnishing accurate, truthful information. 
c. Checks on reliability must be c·onstantly reviewed during time 
informant is active. 
6. Finger~rints : . 
a. After informant has been developed and unless some reasoµ to the 
contrary exists, obtain and forward his fingerprints to Identifica-
tion Division if they are not on file there. • 
b. If informant refuses, do not force the issue. . 
c. Informant's fingerprints, when obtained, should be forwarded as 
enclosure to FD-165 using applicant-type fingerprint card, form 
FD-258. This card should be properly executed showing subject's 
complete description, including date and place of birth. Appro­
priate field office should be shown as contributor, field case file 
number in number space, and "inquiry" in space for "company and 
address" on face of card. 
a. A flash notice is to be place~ by the field in the files of the 
Identification Division by submission of form FD-165, using inforruant 1 s 
true name for each informant who has fingerprints on file. 
e. When infoI1mant is discontinued, retain flash notice for one year 
following discontinuance. Insure that notice is canceled at ·bhat 
time by submission of form FD-165 or advise Bureau as to why notice 
should be continued. If fingerprints obtained solely for this 
purpose, ·remove fingerprints from criminal file. 
( 7 .. [Control - statement of cooperation] 
a; Clos·e control must b.e exercised over acti vi ti es of informants and 
double agents in order to obtain maximum resul·l;s in security cases 
and to preven·b any possible embarrassment to Bureau. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1806 
8 
2-12-60 
) 
