6G 
SECTION 6. 
- P.ART II •• 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CON.TACTS . 
2. Identification orders, wanted flyers, a-nd check cir(?ul~rs 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individuals 
and organizations to which i•dentification orders, wanted flyers, and 
check circulars are to be sent. Each field office must r~view annually 
its mailing, list in order to see that no data is sent to firms which 
have ceased business or ~ave merged with other organizations. A survey 
should be conducted by Agents each year by every office, at time field 
office mailing list is purged, to determine whether additional names 
of individuals and businesses should be added to field office mailing 
list. 
a. Addressograph plates are to be prepared at Bureau upon receipt of 
field request. (Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA. graduates.) Title of po•sition is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on 
list. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
1
1) Quality of assistance. addressee is in a position ·to gi-ve 
2) Cooperation which has been afforded 
3) Following must appear on list: 
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Missions Providing Lodging 
Division [Postal Service]Inspectors 
Bureau of Customs Postmasters 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus Salvation Army 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Secret Service 
ment Officers U.S. Marshals 
FBINA Graduates 
Hotels 
Immigration and Naturaliza­
tion Service 
(4) Following may appear on ltst: 
Automobile Clubs 
Banks 
Car Rental Agencies 
County Attorneys 
County Coroners 
Credit Companies 
Detective Agencies 
Enlistment Officers, U. s. Air 
Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps 
Employment Service 
Fire Departments 
Forest Service 
Gunsmiths 
Insurance Companies 
Movie Studios 
Navy Shore Patrol 
Oil Company Special Agents 
Parole and Probation Officers 
Plant Quarantine Officers 
Protective Associations 
Raee Tracks 
Savings and Loan Associations 
·Service Recruiting Officers 
State Employment Offices 
State Hospitals for Insane 
Steamship Companies 
Telegraph Companies 
U.S. Attorneys . 
U. S. [Magistrates] 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. 
Should a compelling reason exist for distribution of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical,. secure Bureau approval for 
such distribution. 
Give consideration to desirability of circularizing motels. 
Veterans Administration {VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
4 
3-28-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1051 
( 
