13-00000路 
SECRET - WORKING PAPER 
5 March, 1997 
Memorandum For: Chief/HRG 
From: 
Subject: 
Reference: 
Name Issue 
Barry Harrelson 
Name Issue/ Status of Review 
Meetings with ARRB staf路f (Marwell & Gunn) 
4 March 1997 
I met with Gunn and Marwell (separate meetings) to 
discuss the reopening of the names issue per my memo to you. 
Both Gunn and Marwell reacted positively. They found the 
proposal to be reasonable one and they are willing to work 
with us in approaching the Board. However, both said they 
could not predict the Boards reaction. Per Marwell, one 
member of the Board (Anna Nelson) seems to believe that if a 
person worked for the CIA it should be known. 
Apparently our timing is excellent. Marwell is 
planning to propose to the Board that they change the 
process from the focus on individual postponements to 
documents. Under the new approach his staff would have the 
authority to negotiate with the Agency on the release of 
documents, and only issues/documents of disagreement would 
be placed before the Board. Marwell .is convinced that even 
with an additional year they will not finish the project 
with the current approach. He sees our proposal on the 
names as an example of how the proce路ss would work. 
Marwell recommends that we include examples of 
documents containing names of little or no connection to the 
story. Bob Skwirot (he was in the meeting with Marwell) 
said that there 'Were a number of names that appeared in only 
one document and that the number of names had reachea/5901 
Marwell wants to start immediately on preparing a joiiitTist 
of i~portant/releasable individuals. 
Action: Advise DO, OGC, upper management of our proposal to 
reopen the name issue (how?). Need to decide what level 
would sign the memo to the Board, and who would prepare the 
memo. If you agree I can send a copy of my memo to you to 
[~~~d~ and Fred for background use. 
HRG and DO team will collect examples of documents and 
prepare (with ARRB staff) a list of individuals. The DO 
should focus on any person on the list that needs protection 
and路prepare the evidence ASAP (i.e. not wait for the issue 
to be resolved) . 
SECRET 
