14-00000 
... , 
', . 
., ..... t t 
·' Central Intelligence Agency 
j, 
Washington. 0. C. 20S0S 2000 
DECLARATION OF DAVID W. CAREY 
I, DAVID W. CAREY, hereby declare and say: 
1. I presently serve as the Executive Director of the 
-of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA or Agency). I nave 
held the position of Executive Director since July of 1997 
and have served with the CIA for over 29 years in~ variety 
of operational, staff, and management posi~ions. ;,-
2. As the Executive Director I am responsible, on 
behalf of the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) and the 
Deputy Director of Central Intelligence (DDCI), for the 
overall daily management of the Central Intelligence Agency, 
for strategic planning and coordination, and for the 
development and execution of the Agency's annual program. 
In order to carry out these responsibilities, I have been 
delegated all authorities vested in the DCI and DDCI except 
as prohibited by law or Agency regulation or policy. 
3. The purpose of this declaration is to provide an 
assurance that the Central Intelligence Agency: (1) has made 
a diligent records search to locate and disclose to the JFK 
Assassination Records R~view Board (the Board) all records 
in its possession relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the 
assassination of President Kennedy; and (2) is aware of no 
other assassination-related records in its possession being 
withheld from the Board. I make these and the following 
statements (including those in the attachments by reference) 
based upon my personal knowledge, information made available 
to me in my official capacity, the advice of CIA's Office of 
General Counsel, and the conclusions I reached in accordance 
therewith. 
4. With respect to the overall issues of search and 
review, and as explained in the attachments or otherwise 
included by reference, the CIA's Directorates of 
Intelligence (DI), Operations ("DO"), Science and Technology 
( "DS&T"), and Administration ("DA") and the DCI Area 
.Iriformatfon Review Officer have cert-if ied· to me that -t:'heir 
respective offices or directorates have properly and fully 
responded to requests from the Board. Accordingly, I 
believe that the Central Intelligence Agency has worked 
diligently with the Board to declassify, consistent with the 
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection 
Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107) and other statutes, 
