]'he_ CIA' s Intelli!?,ence l~stimate 
The CIA study in connection witl1 th~ consideration of Castro's remov~l 
was an intelligence estimate prepared by the CIA's Tioarci of ~ational l~stimates 
(which was not part of the CIA's ~overt ac~ion directorate), entitled ''The Situation 
an<l Prospects in Cuba" 1'. The CIA Estir.iate uas pessimistic recardin;; the chances 
for success of a Cuban internal revolt, ;:m<l further found that a Castro assassina-
tion would likely strenr,then the Communist position in Cuba. 
----,. 
'v'-'/\ f b4 1 VL-j 
d t':. YA. Jl trO -
After a general review of the economic, military, and political situation 1-lv ""- db o,r 
.,;,t;v1 
in Cub2., the CIA estimate concluded that the Castro re~ime hacJ sufficient popular 
and repressive capabilities to cope with any internal threat. Tl1e concluding 
paragraph of the estimate was entitled nlf Castro.. were to Die". It noted that: 
f/'1~ 
Y""'< ~ 
' 
"His (C2.stro' s) loss now, by assassination or by ncitural 
causes, would have an unsettling effect, but uoul<l almost 
certaihly not prove fatal to th~ regime ... (I)ts principal 
surviving leaders would probably rally together in the 
L:ice of a common danger." (Estimate, p. 9.) 
\._) The CI!\. study further predicted that should Castro die, "some sort of power struggle 
a struggle, the Communist Party's influence would be 
(Estimate, p. 9.) 
;l:The IG !l.eport apparently refers to :rn earlier draft of this iritelli';ence estimate. 
(Ir;, p. 4.) The IG Report, in reporting that many CIA officers irtervi2wed in the 
IG investigation stressed the point that "elimination of t:1c drwdn;:mt figures in a 
r;overnment ... will not necessarily cause the downfall of the 3overnne11t, 11 statcJ: 
l!This point was stressed with respect to Castro and Cuba in an internal CIA 
draft paper of October 1961, which was initiated in response to General ilax­
well Taylor's desire for a contingency plan. The paper took the position 
that the demise of Fidel Castro, from uhatever cause, would offer little op­
portunity for the liberation of Ctiba from Commurdst an:1 Soviet Gloe control. 1' 
(IG, p. l1.) Tite CL'\ was unable to locate the draft pnper. rcferrr:cl to in the 
-IG Reriort. 
,'dcA cover memorandum by_ .Lansdale transmitting the CIA estimate to Robert Kennedy 
stated that the estimate "seems to be the major evidence to be used,. to oppose'" 
l ';~ your program" (referring to the proposed overall Mongoose operation). Lansdale' s 
"-,J memorandum criticized the estimate' s assessment that "it is highly improbable that 
an extensive popular upris5.ng could be· fomented" against Castro as a "conclusion 
of fact quite outside the area of intelligence." (Lansdale Memorandum to Robert 
Kennedy, 11/62, p.1) As discussed in detail at pp .. below. Lansdale's basic 
concept for the Mongoose program was to overthrow Castro through an internal revolt 
• of the Cuban people. • • 
mt 50955 Docid:32423539 Page 143 
(?f--,o.v 
