( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
.[ 
[ 
[ 
7. 
s. 
SECTION 107. &cURITY Ilfl<'OHMJHTS 1-.JW COlUIDI!~•AL SOURCI<~S 107N 
f. If the informant x·ccei vcs from outside employment less than $'1800, 
all of which is subject to Social Security tax, the amount on which 
he will have to report for Social Security tax purposes, if ho com­
pletes a schedule C, is the difference between the amount received 
from regular employment and $4800, 
g. Tf informa11t completes a schedule C, the nature of business of the 
self-employed must be stated and informants should be ins·bructed to 
use as the na·i;ure of self-employment any applicable occupa•cion with-
out revealing connection with the Bureau. • 
[h. When an informant or former in1ormant is initially consiQered a~ a 
potential witn~ss in a Bureau case, determine whether he paid 
Federal and state taxes on the income he received from the Bureau 
for his services. If such taxes have not been paid, .obtain all 
pertinent details and promptly submit recommendations :for handling 
the situation. J 
Stipulation re payments made to witnesses .. 
a. Tn trials in which informants, former informants, or other persons who 
were paiu sums of money are prospective witnesses, the Bureau mus·i· 
furnish the Depi>~r-f;men·i; a set of Photostats of the original receip\· 
signed by the prospective witnesses, The original receipts and a t 
of Photostats will be transmitted to the field office in whose 
territory the trial will take place. The office handling prosecut:un 
must determine f"rom the Government attorney which individuals are 
to be used as witnesses. Thereafter the office should furnish and/or 
cause other appropriate offices to furnish to the Bureau the follow-
2 All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
3 The first date of contact by your office 
inf information: 
l
i The correct, full name 
4 If first contact was prior to September, 1944, 1.:,e names of all 
S.A.s, SA.Cs, and ASACs who contacted and may h·,, .?.de payments 
( 5) A tabulation of all payments, broken down a:, :e amount appli-
cable to services and the amount applicablo ,ie·nses. 
Although tabulations are not furnished to'· p;rtment, those 
prepared by your office will be reconcile: : .,h Bureau records. 
(6) A listing of any advances, refunds, and r .tand.ing balances of 
advances 
The date of-last contact by your office 
Whether the ind.i vid.ual has been contacted by any o·ther office 
bo Each individual and each item of information must be z • ,,.,unted for. 
If no contact was made ,yith a particular i·na.ividual, -L.. Bureau ·must 
be so advisedo • 
Co Where an informant has previously been used and. a tabul; -ion of pay­
ments was prepared., information for i-c;ems (5) through (f•; :1eed be given 
only from the date of the· last trial from which the ind:; a.ual was 
used. 
d.o The above information should qe submitted separate and 
correspondence setting forth d.eroga·l;ory inform~·-~ on, an• 
addressed. to the attention of the Ad.ministrati~. Divisio • 
·u:r,~.t. Interdivisional corrc•·.1ondence should be ad.dressed 
Bureau with copies {lesignate:' for the in·i;erested offices. 
Receipt of unemployment compensa~:on • 
·-t from 
ould be 
Voucher 
to the 
a.. At time·s se.curi:ty informants ·<1d/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
with private industry due to •trikes, economic conditions, o:r- sim51a.r 
circumstarrces. As a result •·.ey become eligi •le for unemployment 
compensation. Where unemp1'·. "n t regulations require listing of . 
sources of income as a prer, . ·1 site for obtaining :: employment 
compensation and s·ecurity in'. _:-:ants and/or souro'.": .. who at the ti.::e 
are being paid by the Burea¼ . : services render~'. ~il to comply, 
the situation is potentially .-..1t..arrassing. The ::-: . ·-:-,•.1 can=-ot be 
placed in the position of ciandoning a violation o• ~~~ ~~- • t law on 
the part of any informant or source. Each field ~ffi: ~ determine 
from state unemployment compensation officials effect ..):.· ;,,.:.employment 
compensation laws en pa.id informants and/or sources. Depending on 
local req 1.1ire:rn"n t.s, in:l'orn,i-.nts and sources must be alerted accordingly. 
21 
5-18-62 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1540 
