o I 
,r'·.,,.,. 
' f.L\IiZ PL.'\'{ FOR CUSA con1ITT2E 
The /\pril 6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times
1
' 
newspaper contai~ed a ~ull~page advertisement capt~o~ed_ 
:,1,•/ha t Is Really Happening in Cuba, 
11 
placed by the rair ?lay 
for Cuba Co~~ittee (FPCC). This advertiseme~t announced 
the formation of the FPCC in New York City and declared the 
FPCC intended to promulgate nthe truth about revolutionary 
Cuba" to neutralize the distorted American press. 
s·c 4"...,..., 
nThe New York Times,; edition of January 11, 19 61, 
reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States 
Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10, 1961, 
Dr. CHARLES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified himself and ROBERT TABER 
as organizers of the FPCC. He also testified he and TABER 
obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were applied 
toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement. 
On May 16) 1963, a source-advised that during the 
first two years of the FPCC's existence there was a struggle 
between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party (SWP) 
elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby 
influence FPCC policy. This source added that during the 
past year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership 
to minimize the role of these and other organizations in the 
FPCC so that their influence as of May, 1963, was negligible. 
The SWP has been designated by the Attorney 
General of the United States pursuant to 
Executive Order 10450. 
On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that 
VINCENT "TED" LEE, FPCC National Office Director, was then 
formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no 
intention of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any 
other organization.· This source stated that LEE believed 
that the FPCC shou~d advocate resumption of diplomatic 
relations between Cuba and the United States and should 
support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution witl:i.out 
interference from other nations. LEE did not advocate ( 
supporting the Cuban revolution per se. 
APPENDIX 
S98 
37 
