107F-G SECTION 107 SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIT TIAL SOURCES. 
- • 10. Transfer of ~nformants to other areas 
a. Keep alert to possibility of transferring informants to areas needing 
coverage through change in residence or employment. 
b. Keep in mind overall coverage of organizations. Jf informant becomes 
p:i:·ominent and may be able to expand his field of activity beyond your 
fiold division, encourage him to do so in order to prqvide wider cov­
erage for Bureau's work. 
11. Action by informant when uncovered 
a. If informant is uncovered gy subversive elements, instruct ~im to de­
fend himself vigorous.ly and demand proof o:!:,,_his informant activity: 
b. Suspicion in many cases is directed to an informant without facts to 
back it up and by bluffing informant may confuse issue to point where 
his services may not be lost. 
o. I'n some cases it may be necessary for informant to acquiesce- to 
charges of deviation from strict discipline of organization involved~ 
and thus cast off suspicion. 
12. Requests· of informant to help defend others 
a.. If requested by Conmmnist Party, or other interested parties ·to assist· 
in preparation of defense in subversive-type cases or handle assign­
ment where such information is readily available, informant should 
tactfully decline. 
b. Such requests should be reported immediately to contacting .A.gent a·nd. 
made matter of record. 
c. If informant cannot avoid becoming involved, instruct him not .to repor~ 
any information pertaining to defense plans or strategy. 
d. Promptly report any such incident to Bureau. 
[ e. [If an informant is present in conversai;ion between an attorney and 
[ indh•idual un1er criminal indictment, ·he should immediately leave. 
[ If he is unable to do so and inadvertently learns of defense plans 
[ or strategy, he is not to report the substance of any· such 
[ conversation to the FBI. Additionally, the informant is not to 
[ engage in or report the substance of a conversation with a criminal 
[ defendant dealing with the offense for whi.ch the defendant is 
[ under indictment.] 
13. Preparation for testifying 
Contacting .A.gent roust condition informant to fact that someday knowle·dge 
he possesses may be needed as evidence in court. Psychologically prepare 
informant for fact that he may at future date be called upon to testify to 
information he has furnished on security matters. Proper indoctrination 
Qf informant is essential as Bureau must provide witnesses whenever 
Department initiates prosecutions in security cases. 
G. INF ORY.ANTS I I:N"F ORYiATION 
1. General instructions re oral and written information 
a. These instructions apply to security informants, potential security 
informants, panel sources, security confidential sources, and 
security sources of information. 
b. Specific instructions must be given to informants concerning -prepara­
tion of statements containing their information. 
c. They should be submitted as quickly as possible after meeting or 
activity. 
d. Written statements should be submitted when possible. In es,pionage 
and foreign nationality matters written statements are usually 
necessary only in those instances involving possible future·prosec~­
tion. {In the majority of cases diplomats or officials who are not 
subject to prosecution are involved.) 
e. Carefully scrutinize each, bearing in mind that if informant is c·alled 
upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be 
introduced in court. 
f. All information furnished by informants must be promptly reviewed, 
recorded, indexed, evaluated, channelized, and all necessary action· 
taken. Form FD-306 may be used in lieu of channelizing memorandum if 
desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed for c·hannelizing 
and staple one copy to each copy of informant's statement _being 
channelized. Channelization should be noted on original FD-306 and 
on all copies. When informant's statement contains references to. 
large number of individuals and/or organizations, and exceeds two 
pages, consider channelizing to substantive ca·se file only th·ose· por-
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1142 
8 
3-15-71 
\ 
' 
( 
( 
{ 
\. 
." •l 
i 
' 
. } 
