13-00000 
I 
' 
PAGE 18 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
A great deal of this was fueled in 1992 by a movie entitled "JFK." That movie 
contained many distortions of the facts and circumstances surrounding the death 
of our president. As a result of that movie, my office was deluged with • 
thousands of letters and telegrams by Amen.cans calling for the release of these 
sealed files. 
As a member of Congress, and a former chairman of that committee, I deemed it 
important not to have the good work of our committee impugned by such baseless 
accusations. Our committee had attempted to conduct its investigation into the 
assassination of the president, and to present the results of that investigation 
to the Congress and to the American people in a thorough and dignified manner in 
keeping with the memory of this great president. 
Consequently, in 1992, I introduced, and the House and Senate passed, PL 
102-526, a bill entitled The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records 
Collection Act of 1992. That law created the Assassination Records Review 
Board, which mandated and authorized that board to identify, secure, and make 
available all records related to the assassination of President Kennedy. It was 
our intention, Mr. Chairman, that everything that could be released from every 
agency, every court record, anywhere they existed - that those records be 
released to the American people. 
Under the law, the board had until October 1, 1996, to fulfill its mandate, plus 
an additional year, at the board's discretion. 
We were very fortunate to have a very distinguished panel appointed. This panel 
was appointed by President Clinton 18 months after the law was enacted here by 
the Congress - a considerable delay in the appointment O! this panel. But we 
were very fortunate to have persons such as Chairman Ttmheim, Dr. Henry Graff, 
Dr. Kermit Hall, Dr. William Joyce, Dr. Anna Nelson, and an outstanding 
executive director, David Marwell. 
Under this panel, they have now released more than 10,000 previously secret 
government documents. 
They have released a report, which I would urge all the members of the committee 
to read, if they have an opportunity, because I think you will see the extensive 
amount of work in which they have been involved. 
They now need one additional final year in order to complete their work. Their 
work during this period of time will be primarily to secure the release of 
documents from the CIA and the FBI. Those are the two main agencies left from 
which they still have a considerable number of documents to be released. 
Mr. Chairman, in closing I think that it's important that we complete this work 
in an orderly manner with full and complete disclosure to the American people, 
that they will feel that they know everything that their gov~rnment knows about 
