13-00000 
. .. 
P 81 
'the Executive Director 1• central to the success of the 
Board'• aia■ion. Be or abe IIU&t be a person of judgment, 
principle, and energy, experienced in dealing vith aasaea of 
historical material and capable of coatortably delegating work to 
subordinates. !'he peraon JIIUst be history-lli.ndect a■ well as . , 
capable of adainiatering j:ustly and affectively an enterprise 
that: vlll be substantial in aize and enduring in its impact on 
the nation'•· 1'he Executive Director aust be aware troa tbe 
outset that be or sbe will have to be in regular contact with the 
Board on all vital issues arlain9 out of the work. 
.,. 
I would expect to have a part in interviewing prospective 
n011linees for the post, and then in helping to instruct the person 
selected as to his or her responsibilities. As to the ata£f, l 
assume that the Executive Director will have a comparatively .. free 
hand in the selection of sul>or41nates in order to guarantee the. . . .. 
ultilllate responsibility of the Executive Director for "the r ,._ i 
thoroughness of the undertaking. I: would expect to be ,c:ons~ted 
on nominees for staff positions as significant issues arise. 
JJI, PQIJCX ;ISSUES 
1. Have you aade any public statements-- oral or written­
regarding the assassination of President ICennedy or the public 
availability of government records regarding this assassination? 
Please explain, and provide copies of any relevant material. 
I was interviewed by the §carsdale tnc;mirer in the .week after 
President Clinton announced bis intention to nominate me to the 
ARRB. I offered aoae innocuous remarks to the reporter, which 
were not set down with complete accuracy. (I know, for exaaple, 
and so said, that the Kennedy autopsy material will no~ be made 
public. Also, I specifically said that George Stephanopoulos was 
never a student of nine.) The text is attached. 
2. Members of the ARRB will be examining security classified 
records with a view to their declassification and public dis­
closure, in whole or in part, at same time in the future. 
(a) can you describe what prior experience you have· bad, if 
any, with using or examining security classified records of the. 
Federal Government? • 
During my aray service in world war II as an enlisted un 
and as an officer of the Army Security Agency at Arlington Hall 
Station in Arlington, Virginia, I was engaged in cryptanalytic 
and translation work on the most secret Japanese diplomatic codes 
and ciphers. The resulting documents were classified TOP SECRET 
ULTRA-- the highest clas·sification of that day. I was also privy 
to the MAGIC SUMMARY, which was issued daily to the White House 
3 
J!-J":-93 ll:':3l'M POOJ S:27 
