[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
D. 
) 
SECTION 107. ,~ITY INF0?.11AHTS .A.MD SOURCES 107G - D 
a. Potential security informants in espionage and foreign national'ity oases 
many·times present special problems which limit or govern the scope of 
the initial investigation. (See instructions re contact cases and 
deseco prograrr., section 105K, 6b and 6h, volume IV, of· this manual.) 
However, where practical the above items should be covered.. 
9. Leads to obtain background data must be handled by auxiliary offices 
within 30 days. 
10. Investigation as outlined above must be completed prior to any request to 
guide, di~eot, and develop an individual as a potential informant. 
IUTERVIEWS Al'TD DEVELOPWJNT OF POTEHTIAL SECURITY INFORMANTS 
1~ When background information obtained as described under subsection c, 
transmit results to Bureau in the same numerical sequence as set out 
in subsection C, and request authority to develop individual as a 
seouri ty informant. . .. . . . • . . . . . 
2. When authority is granted by.Bureau, steps should be taken to develop 
hio potentiality and he should be made aware of Bureau policy •. 
3. Carefully plan initial interviews as to time and location to prevent any 
embarrassment to Bureau. 
4. Do not interview female potentials in their own homes or apartments unless 
necessary and all such interviews in their residences should be conducted 
by two Agents after specific approval of the superior in the field 
offic~~ responsible for development of informants. This instruction is 
no.t. ?. .'.icable where active investigation has _established that the 
poter:., . .,1 informant is ot good character, there is no indication of 
affiliation with subversive grou,s, and there will be no embarrassment 
to the Bureau, • 
5_. Except in espionage and foreign ·tionali ty matters where contact is 
maintained on a periodic basis Jnpendent on the circumstances of the 
O?.<ie, potential informants should be contacted personally at- least 
~.~e every two weeks in the same manner as informants. 
6. l • • l.se Bureau of progress being made at least every four months. 
.[I...., c~ers concerning potential informants who are not being p?.-5.d on 
Bureau authorization should be submitted on a U.ACB basis, ]sh•:mld 
contain informative summary of information furnished during Jast fo~r 
months, and must include certifications regarding potential.informant's 
stability and reliability and his indoctrination against disclosure. 
These[letters should]follow the[form indicated]under section 107N, 3b, 
[but should omit item (5) concerning payments and rer10rd item (1) to 
omit reference to . any pay-..a.ent recommendation.] (Refer to section 
105K, 6h, (3), (b"), volume IV, of this manual for exception to this 
rule in deseoo ma-cters.) • . 
7. Po,t records of contacts with potential irifo~mants so that the cases will 
not become delinquent. 
8. During interviews wi ·!;h potential informants, if it de-velops individual 
does not have the necessary capabilities, discontinue efforts. 
9. Potential informant should have contacts, associates, or possibilities 
for engaging in activity through which he can ob·l;ain a~d furnish current 
information of Bureau interest in security fieid. 
10. If individual docs not have poten•bial as above described but j,s willing 
to cooperate, consider indicat-ing to -him he can be of assistance if he 
places himself in a positi_on where he may be able to obtain information 
of value. In this regard,·. address of local hoadquarters of subversive 
organizations or meeting places of subversive groups may be mentioned 
to the individual as place~ where it may be possible for him to obtain 
·information if he so desirel; also, it may be mentioned thnt if he sub­
scribes to periodicals or fr~quents such places above mentioned, l:e may 
be approached or an interest:may be shown in him which,if developed, 
wo,1.ld be the means whereby he. could obtain information. 
11. Inform note11"i;ial informants wb."o ·-.agree to assist the Bureau that suoh 
assist3.;oe must be strictly voJ.:~1\r~:>.ry and they are to understand that 
there is no coercion or intimidation involved • . . : 
... 
NW 383-21 Docld:3-2989529 P_age ~ 3-85 
5 
5-12-61 
