13-00000 
. APR 04 '97 10: 11AM 
PAGE 35 
56 Md. L. Rev. 1, *30 
- -Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
n1B2. See Exhibit Five infra p. 47. 
n1B3. Id. 
n1B4. Id. 
nlSS. See id. The material enclosed in brackecs in Exhibit Five was 
originally withheld by the CIA. See id. 
- - - - - - - - - - - -End Footnotes~ 
P.35/44 
There is also the question of whether the Board should reveal the identities 
of·those Who handled information relating.to the investigation of the V 
-assassination. America's intelligence machine is a huge bureaucracy that ·~ ,; 
processes information in staggering quantities. nlB6 How and by wh0111 information: :i 
. relating co the assassination was organized, processed~ and di_stributed is 
central to evaluating the CIA's role in the assassination. For'example, Exhibit 
Six pertains to the continuing_debate about whether the Agency photograp~ed 
Oswald entering the soviet"Embassy and whether a record .of what he had to say 
chere was ever sent to CIA headquarters. n1e·1 Argual:>ly, .'unraveling the chain of 
custody of chat: material is critical. Yet, to do so would require identifying 
the persons who handled it. In this instance, the Board decided that, on grounds 
of personal privacy and potential harm, it would not: disclose the name of one 
CIA official·involved wi,:h the Mexico City operation, alt~ough the names of 
other officials were released in cooperation with the CIA. 
- • ;,.Footnotes- - -
n186. See Assassination Materials Disclosure Ac_t III, supra n()Ce 96, at 397 
(photograph depicting voluminous JFI<: aseaesinatiop files); Wald, supra note 128 
(descri))ing the Department.of Energy's accumulation of information). 
n187. See Exhibit Six infra p. 48, 
- - - - - - • • - - - - -, -End Footnotes- • • • - - - - - - - - - - -.. - -
X. Foreign Liaison 
The American government conducts its intelligence operations in collaboration 
with the services of othe:r nat:ions. n188 For example, the moat secret agreement 
ever entered into by the Bnglish-speaking world is the.pact. by which the United 
St.ates, Great Britain, Canada, [*31) Australia,~ New Zealan~ carve4 the 
world into spheres of cryptologic influence, assigning each nacion·targets and 
agreeing to standardize terminology, code words, and other.operations' 
procedures. nl89 Revel.ations of these and other relationships couid prove 
extre~ely embarrassing to the cooperati~g gove~ents, especially when those 
gov.ernment:s profess to be neutral or have publicly stated that theyha,te no 
conneccion wieh che CIA. However, a full understanding of the int:elligence base 
upon which the warren Cot11mission and the intelligence community as a whole 
assessed the Kennedy assassination depends on a thorough accowiting of sue~ 
connections. Moreover, perhaps nowhere else is negative information more 
important than when the intelligence service of another country has access to 
