13-00000 . . 
' ,, f • 
. ,., 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES - cont'd 
'2/j 
The ~mbassy)stated that "everything leads to the belief 
that" the arms recently discovei:ed in~~enezuela had come from 
Cuba. According to one of the@hilean Embassy's) sources, two 
ships had left Cuba at an unspecified date en rou'te to British 
Guiana with "packages consigned as machinery consigned to an 
industrialist of known Communist tendencies whose pr9per~y t~. 
adjace~to the Venezuelan border." Various of the /Chileanl'-f 
Embassy ources "accept.the rumor". that the arms ar~ of Belgian 
ani:I Bri· ish (sic) make and that. the shipments have been made 
from various. Cuban ports. '.l'hefembassyJ r~ort also expressed 
the belief that Cuba not only ~ni:ls arms to various points in 
South America, but also Cuban guerrilla leaders. (NSA 3/0/tL9/-
Tll29-63, 5 December, TOP SECRET DINAR) - ·~q 
Havana Radio announced yesterday that pro-Castro guer­
rillas have established "six operational zones" in the moun­
tains around Santiago and Puerto Plata in the Dominican 
Republic. The Havana radiobroadcast credited the announcement 
to "the.first communiqu~ issued by the command." Meanwhile, 
press dispatches from Miami report that most Cuban exiles feel 
that the Havana announcement is an attempt to cover up the 
failure of Castro·terrorists to stop Venezuela's presidential 
elections last Sunday. Other exile sources predict that the 
announcement and the setback in Venezuela mean: . tba t the . Castro 
regime will launch a concerted terrorist campaign against the 
military-installed provisional regime. in Santo Domingo. Batista 
Falla, leader of th, Cuban exile Christian Democratic Movement 
(MCD), said yesterday in Miami that the failure of terrorism 
in Venezuela· "bas put Castro in a diff"icul t position and damages 
bis chances·in the rest of Latin America." He added that he 
expects Castro to "make desperate attempts to picture terrorism 
as successful, despite its miserable failure in Venezuela." 
All reporting by the Dominican Government indicates that· 
its forces are in .effective control of the areas of guerrilla 
activity. About 40 insurgents of the outlawed pro-Castro 14th 
of June Political Group (APCJ) are said to have been captured, 
with only isolated bands yet to be apprehended. (UPI, Miami, 
A~ll,6 December, UNCLASSIFIED and Background Information, SECRET) 
Cuba is reportedly making preparations to recognize a 
Venezuelan government-in-exile, according to an official West 
German service from a fairly reliable source with contacts in 
Havana. Reportedly, .the Cuban Foreign Ministry is consulting 
the USSR and other bloc countries to induce them to recognize 
this government-in-exile, The Cubans, accordiiig to the source, 
do·not expect the USSR and other countries to agree to this; 
nevertheless, the attempt is being made. 
-9-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
