13-00000 
?rable stress in his statements. The PSE confirmed that he thought he had nedy had been rushed to the emergency 
atrolrdn Gerald'L. Hill \estiried that he seen a puff of sr:noke on the knoll, but It room at Parkland Hospital, where Or; Mal­
,d ttrr~a.spent bullet hulls on the floor could not support his claim that he had colm Perry tried to save his life. The physi­
eatt; the wi'ndow frocn which the fatal heard a shot from that direction. cian saw that the President had suffered 
ts el legedly were fired. The PSE showed Another witness, Charles Brehm, was a massive head wound and a smaller wound 
1 stress in his statements. quoted by Mark Lane as having said that in the throat. Perry performed a tracheos-
,e rifle was one of the principal points he had seen a portion of the President's tomy, cutting through the throat wound in 
d by the Warren Commission to link skull flying baek over the left reiu end of an attempt to open a breathing passage. 
~aid to the assassination. The PSE sub- the limousine. Lane offered this as evidence Afterward, when hope for the President had 
1tiated the testimony that Oswald owned of a shot from the grassy knoll. On the CBS been abandoned, Perry met with the press 
fie and that the evidence supplied to tapes. Brehm stated heatedly that he had and declared that the wound In the front 
3llistics expert indicated this rifle was been quo~ed out of context, and emphatic- of the neck had been an entry wound. 
murd:ir weapon. However, the PSE did ally denied that any shots had come from The President's body was flown to 
substantiate the controversial claims of the knoll. Despite his emotional state, ttiere Washington, D.C. There, approximately 
las police regarding the discovery of was almost no stress in this statement. eight hours after the shooting, an autopsy 
evidence. Officer Jacks of the Danas poiice, who was performed at Bethesda Navat Hospital. 
he hospital employee was apparently was riding in the limousine of Vice- Because of the tracheostomy, the nature of 
ng the truth when he recounted finding President Johnson, denied that any of the the neck wound could no longer be ob­
bullet on a stretcher at Parkland Hospi- shots had come from the direction of the served and w~s, at first, overlooked. Later, 
but many Ctitics have charged that the grassy knoll. Tlie PSE turned up a fair de- after consulting the Dallas doctors, the 
et had been t.::e:iberately planted there. gree of stress. Bethesda pathologists concluded that it 
; is the ta~c:.is "single bullet" which the - Three witnesses, Mrs. Caroline Walther, was an exit wound. The autopsy report 
rren Repo~ says passed through the Arnold Rowland and Howard Brennan, stated that there were two entry wounds, 
lies of both tne President and Governor claimed to have seen gunmen in the win- • one low in the rear scalp and one at the 
mally, and then lodged in Connally's dows of the Texas School Book Depository right base of the neck; and twci exit wounds, 
;t. Several researchers have tried to building. Mrs. Walther said she saw two the throat wound and a large irregular 
:lat this, fi~ing the same type of bullet men, one armed with a rifle, the second wound on the right side of the head. 
, the wrist of a cadaver. The bullets never The confusion was compounded when 
1ained perfectly intact, as the one found ' two FBI agents present at the autopsy 
he stretcher; they became twisted lumps reported that a wound had been found in· 
:1ad and copper. Chief Justice Warren: the President's back, and that no corre-
he second link between Oswald and the "We explored both these spending exit wound had been located. 
assinatfon is the charge that he killed theories and found Diagrams made during the autopsy seemed • 
cer Tippitt. a Dallas policeman, while to confirm this, showing the lower of the 
-ing from the scene of the first shooting. no evidence that two entry wounds to be below the shoulders. 
umber of eyewitnesses have testified either group was involved" not at the base of the neck. What became 
: they saw Oswald shoot Tippitt, and one ' ·or the bullet? The agents reported that 
:hem, Domingo Benavides; was Inter- Bethesda doctors thought the bullet had 
..-ed on the CBS tapes. H~ was asked dropped from the wo·und when the Dallas 
,ere was any doubt in hi9 mind that -with a shorter gun. Rowland told the Warren doctors attempted external heart massage. 
vald was the man he saw shoot Tippitt. Commission he had seen two men, one an But this was the shot that the Commission 
replied, "No. sir, there waa no doubt elderly Negro, in the window Oswald Is claimed had passed through Kennedy and 
Ill." There was absolutely no stress in alleged to have fired from, but on the CBS struck Govemor Connally. 
statement. He was telling the truth. tapes he claimed he had seen an armed X-rays and color photographs of the au­
he killing of Officer Tippitt by Oswald man at a different window. The Commission topsy were made. The brain was removed 
fueled the fires of controversy over the relied heavily on the testimony of Brennan, from the body. Brain and skin tissue slides 
rren Report. Tippitt was far from his usual• who claimed to have seen a gunman in the were prepared for microscopic examina-
1t when he was shot Some witnesses "Oswald window" actually firing the last of tion. Remarkably, the Warren Commission 
e alleged that Tippitt and Oswald were the shots. The PSE showed hard stress irL never asked to see any of this evidence, 
•n together in Jack Ruby's nightclub. the testimony of all three witnesses. relying instead solely on the testimo.ny of 
y theorize that the three men were part The PSE analysis of the eyewitnesses' Captain James J. Humes, one of the 
an assassination conspiracy, and that testimony regarding tbe source of the shots pathologists who co.nducted the autopsy. 
pitt had been sent to silence Oswald, is ambiguous. It supports Holland's claim Even more incredible is the disappearance 
had been beaten to the draw. to have seen a puff of smoke on the knoll, of the brain, the slides; and some of the 
he Dallas police radio dispatcher, and Brehm's denial that any shots came photographs, ·which were alleged to have 
:cer Murray Jackson, was asked if he from that direction, and it raises serious been tumed over to the National Archives 
ught Tippitt knew Oswald, "No," he doubts about all other claims and counter- by the Bethesda Naval Hospital. 
lied, "I don't think he knew Oswald." Did claims. This contradiction seems to result Both Dr. Perry and Captain Humes were 
kson know Oswald? "No," answered from the notorious unreliability of eyewit- interviewed on the CBS tapes. Perry was 
ksOn, "I didn't either." The PSE showed nesses, perhaps compounded by a fair asked about the throat wound he'd seen 
,vy stress in both statements. amount of fabrication. Deception, if it Is whenthePresidentwasbroughttoParkland 
·erhaps the greatest source of con- present here, may have been motivated Hospital. His answer seemed evasive. He 
·ersy over the Warren Report is it's claim merely by a desire for attention. Or there neither confirmed nor denied that he had 
: all the shots were fired by one gunman. may have been-darker reasons. thought it was an entry wound, talking in­
ne eyewitnesses claim to have heard There Is, however, other evidence and stead about the difficulty of making.such 
-ts and seen gunsmoke in the area of testimony that could shed some light on the a determination and the fact that his atten­
,w hillock ahead and to the right of the existence, number and location of assas- lion had been devoted to saving the Presi­
sidential motorcade. This hillock has sins other than. Oswald. This brings us to dent's life. Then the interviewer as~~ him 
,e to be known as "lire grassy knoll." perhaps the most dubious and controversial directly whether he had thought at the time 
3 of these witnesses was a railroad element in the Warren Commission's ver- thatitwasanentrywound. "Actually.l,didn't 
ker named S.M. Holland, who observed sion of the event-the autopsy. really give it much thought.~-he,replied.~ 
P~NTHOI ll\F 
-.. ::.. .•. 
I, 
t ,·. 
I . • : 
