SECRET 
ANNEX B - BRAZIL 
Documents found in a wrecked airliner in Peru now 
have made public an obvious case of Cuban involvement-· 
in subversion directed against Brazil. These are the 
so-called VARIG documents recovered by Peruvian authori­
ties when an airliner carrying a Cuban commercial dele­
g~tiori crashed near Lima en route from Rio de Janeiro 
on'27 November. 
The documents 9 a letter and attachments from 
"Gerardo'', to 19 Petronio 9 'l'I comprised a report from a Cu­
ban diplomat ln_Rio de Janeiro 9 writing under a cover 
name, to his superior in Havana. The letter made it 
plain that Cuba had financed and supervised efforts by 
Francisco Juliaoj Brazilian Peasant League leader 1 to 
set up guerrilla warfare training camps within the 
framework of his pro'"'°Communist peasant organization .• ' ., . . 
The report~ which relays complaints of some of the 
guerrillas recruited for these camps~ makes it clear 
that the Peasant Leagu~ guerrilla operation was plagued 
by confusion and corruptiony but leaves no doubt of Cu­
ban involvement 9 and names many.Brazilians involved. 
Purely fortuitously 9 a Brazilian customs police 
official checking on possible clandestine landing fields 
in the·interior~ ran across evidence of the training 
camps and arranged to have some of them raided even be­
fore the Varig aircraft crashed. The raids turned up 
no evidence pointing directly to Cuba~ but the camps 
happened to be precisely those described in the Gerardo­
Petronio correspondence. The Varig document provided 
the evidence against Cuba 9 the two independent sources 
matched their details perfectly 9 and it has become im­
possible for th~ Communists and the Peasant League to 
obtain serious consideration ·for any claim that the docu­
ments might be forgeries. We in turn are sure of their 
authenticity. 
The Peasant League operation 9 which was staffed 
by some of the first Brazilian Communists.to take 
guerrilla training in Cuba in June of 196lj continues 
to provide evidence against Cuba. Although the'.Cubans 
apparently have done their best to avoid all contact 
with the ·guerrilla organization since the expos&~ Bra­
zilian police continue to turn up further ramifications 
of the operation. The second~in-command of the Peasant 
League and head of the guerrilla organization» Clodomir 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 24 
