[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
107U 
6. 
7. 
a. 
. J • 
SECTI01'T 107 •• CURITY. Il~TOH}L\.lfTS AUD 
Utilization 
.. \ 
( 
CONF'ID • .A.L SOURCES 
a. If confidential souroe is to be used for assistance in Recurity 
investigations, secure Bureau apr,rc-;al, and bi~ckground data must 
be furnished to the Bureau of the same type wh~ch is required 
for potential security informants. 
b. "Except in espionage and foreitn natiorrn.lity matters :i.11 which the 
frequency of contact is depend.r,;.1t upon circumstances of the inc1ividual 
case, confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained shoulc1 
also be oont.?.ctod at lea.st once e·re:c-y two wc:eks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
9. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be po steel. 
d. Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by the Agent 
or Agei.1ts specifically designated for that purpose. _ 
:e. The letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use a subject 
as a confidential source is to set out clearly the following informa­
tion: 
( 1) Background information, including date and plaqe of bir·f;h, 
oitizenship status, reside:-1ce, employment, credit and arrest 
record, and service record, if any 
(2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together with the results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
( 3) .A statement to ·the effect subject is being considered a con­
fidenti"al source and that he -nill, be advised he is not a 
Bureau employee and of the confiden·bial nature of his relation­
s~ip with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and 
if he is oonnec-1:;ed wi·c;h a labor union he will be advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters, 
f. One of the required copies of the letter requesting authority to use 
a s.ubject as a confidential source should consist only _of the first 
page of the letter. If the request is approved at the Bureau, a 
~tamped notation will be placed on the single-page copy and it will 
be returned to the field indi~ating that authority is granted to 
consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subject is 
sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background information 
. obtained. 
Security confidential sources - cer.tification of stability and payments 
a. Every four months a letter of -justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security confidential 
sources. See 107N, 3b, for form, of. letter, .. 
b. If the security source is not being paid on Bur&au authorization and 
is being used regularly, the .Agent handling the source must dictate 
a memorandum to the SAG for the file containing the same certification 
as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters. 
Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sou~ces since such actionP might be 
misconstrued. 
- . Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau when confidential is discont~nued, and the reasons· 
ther~for. 
""' ,,,•• 
. .. .... . ... ' 
·NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1463 
28 
1-13-64 
( 
I 
\ 
