... 
INIERVIEW AND MEETING ~ ,:;:; 
:,·:, } ·_ :-:;;,;;.,'cr,0:. '\ 
a 
on personal relationships going back to World 
War II. In the late 1960's, the FBI went into 
El Salvador and Papich thought this was a waste 
of FBI manpower. 
Regarding Cubans in Miami, there were many flaps 
with CIA. For example, CIA would attempt to 
recruit an exile for an operation in Cuba, the 
exile would ask the FBI about it, and Hoover would 
get mad. The FBI would not be informed about CIA 
cover companies screening exiles. The FBI investi­
gated one cover company until it discovered the 
CIA cover. CIA tried to recruit FBI sources with­
out checking out FBI. Papich is sure CIA "must 
have" used agents to cover local Miami Cubans. 
But FBI had excellent coverage and would protest 
when CIA took an interest in somebody FBI was 
investigating. There would be general protests 
to CIA to stay out of counterintelligence. Some 
problems were resolved locally with the FBI agent 
in charge. There was minimum FBI contact with 
Ao erations. Some names involved here are /c) 
addf"~E~ubbos~eceased; Bill Harvey; and a~ 
itzgerald. 
Regarding CIA counterintelligence against Cubans 
in New York, Papich said the policy was no 
counterintelligence by CIA. He has no recollection 
of CIA implication in anti-Castro Cuban illegal 
activities, but Papich admits he would have learned 
only if there was a flap. 
Regarding CIA Domestic Operations Division, Papich 
formulated the 1966 agreement to ease FBI relation­
ships. The problem, as noted earlier, was CIA 
ire to inte ew foreign officials in the u. S 
t£:,the.'itJ~ . ..:..:.:i-f Hoover finally, reluctantly, rs\ 
reed to· the 19 6 understanding. Papich warned~'/ 
CIA that· if there were- continuing flaps, Hoover 
would withdraw his agreement and "it would be my 
butt". There were flaps from 1966 to 1970 where 
Domestic Operations Division attempted to recruit 
and failed to advise FBI. If CIA was interested 
in a Soviet bloc intelligence service recruitment, 
FBI said no. If either Domestic Operations Division 
or the counterintelligence staff was interested in 
any Soviet in the U. S., they touched base with FBI. 
But they felt that if FBI had allowed them to 
recruit they could have succeeded. 
NW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 19 
Page /2._of £!_ 
