13-00000 
' ·, 
-
..... ••• ...... : .. -.... • 
.. 
We received communications from the Navy, and from other agencies. 
Mr. DULLES. Is there any general procedure with respeet to Americans abroad 
who get Into trouble. Do you get informed so in case they come back you can 
take adequate precautionary measures? Is that established SOP? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes, Mr. Dulles. We do receive such information, and if we 
pick up the information initially as we did here, from press reports or otherwise, 
we go to the other agencies and ask them whether they have any information and 
·establish an interest there so that if they have not voluntarily furnished us the 
information they will do so, upon our request. 
Mr. DULLES. Thank you. 
Mr. STERN. On page 3, Mr. Belmont, in the answer to question No. 3, the 
second paragraph, could you tell us why the FBI preferred to interview Oswald 
after he had established residence and why it was not preferable to interview 
him upon his arrival in New York? • 
Mr. BELMONT. This ls a matter of experience: Generally speaking when an 
individual such as Oswald arrives back in the country and the press is there, 
there is an unusual interest in him. Immigration and Naturalization Service 
has a function to perform, and we prefer, unless there is a matter of urgency, 
to let the individual become settled in residence. It is a much better atmosphere 
to conduct the interview, and to get the information that we seek. If it is 
a matter of urgency, we will interview him immediately upon arrival.. 
Mr. STERN. On page 4, Mr. Belmont, in your answer to question No. 6, was 
lt ordinary procedure for Agent Fain to re-Interview Oswald so soon after bis 
first interview under the circumstances? Is there anything unusual about that? 
Mr. BELMONT. There is nothing unusual whatsoever. Agent Fain interviewed 
Oswald on June 26, 1963-1962, I believe it was, was it not? 
The.CHAIRMAN. Yes; 1962. 
Mr. BELMONT. And was not satisfied that he had received all the information 
he wanted nor that it was a matter that should be closed at that time. 
Therefore, he set out a lead to re-interview Oswald, and after an appropriate 
period h.e went back and re-Interviewed him. This is within the prerogative of 
the investigative agent, and certainly if he was not satisfied with the first 
interview it was his duty and responsibility to pursue the matter unW he was 
satisfied. 
Mr. STERN. In your answer to question No. 5, does the response of Oswald to 
the question why he went to Russia. seem typical'to you of the returned defector, 
or unusual? 
Mr. BELMONT. There is no such thing as a typical response. Each case is an 
individual case, and is decided on its merits and on the background of the 
individual, and the circumstances surrounding it. 
Mr. STERN. Would it be usual for the defector to agree to advise you if he got 
a contact? Are they generally that cooperative? 
Mr. BELMONT. We ask them because we want to know, and the purpose of our 
interview with him was to determine whether he had been recruited by the 
Soviet intelligence, and we asked him whether he would tell us if he was con­
tacted here In this country. He replied he would. Whether he meant it is a 
question. However, you must bear in mind that this man, I believe it was 
when he was interviewed in July of 1961 in the American Embassy, the inter­
viewing official there said it was apparent that he had learned his lesson the 
hard way, and that he had a new concept of the American way of life, and 
apparently had decided that Russia was not for him. 
When we interviewed him likewise he told us that he had not enjoyed his stay 
in Russia. He likewise commented that be had not enjoyed his stay in the 
Marines. So that in direct answer to your question, it is customary for us in 
such a ·case as this, to ask the man if he will report a contact, and it is customary 
for him to say yes, because frankly, he would be putting himself in a rather 
bad light if he didn't say yes. 
Mr. STERN. Turning to---
Mr. DULLES. Could I ask a question there : Do I correctly read your report 
and those of your agents to the general effect that YO\l had no evidence that 
there was any attempt to recruit Oswald in the United States? 
Mr. BELMONT. No evidence whatsoever. 
8 
