14-00000 
r'•, 
2. Following are comments on specific sections of the 
Assassination Records Review Board's interpretive 
regulations, as published in the Federal Register, February 
8, 1995. 
a. Section 1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record 
In paragraph (a) the reference to "activities and events 
that may have led to the assa,ssination--" seems overly 
broad, and appears to go beyond the limits established in 
the Assassination Records Collection Act. We believe that 
it would be helpful to include an articuable standard in 
this section. The present text would permit inconsistent 
application of the regulations, which might encourage 
massive and expensive, additional records searches that are 
of doubtful value. 
The following change is suggested in paragraph (a): 
"activities and events that may reasonably be 
considered to have led to the assassination--" (This would 
be consistent with the Act.) 
b. Section 1400.2 Interpretation of additional records 
and information 
Paragraph (a) raises a question as to the purpose and 
definition of "additional records and information." The 
meaning of the phrase "all document·s :used- -during 
declass-if ication review of assassination records as well as 
all other docu.ments--"seems overly broad and unclear. As 
presently worded, this section would appear to include any 
document, book, index, record system, etc. regardless of 
relevance to the assassination or investigations, including 
for example, legal opinions. We assume that the purpose is 
to enable the Board to request and review additional 
records. 
We suggest that the section be made more specific, 
including a clearer statement of the intent. For example, 
with respect to cryptonyms, codewords, guides, etc. a more 
precise link to events related to the assassination or to a 
timeframe could be helpful. 
c. Section 1400. 5 Requirement that assassination records 
be released in· their entirety· 
The introductory paragraph specifies that "no portions of 
any assassination record shall be withheld--solely on 
grounds of non-relevance." This appears to open the door 
for access to entire documents that contain information on 
