_J 
SECRET 
6. Reports of trainees indicate that weapons 
training is confined to weapons they will be able 
to obtain, maintain, and replenish in their own 
countries. We have reliable and corroborative re­
ports that trainees and sponsoring leaders alike 
have been told Cuba does not intend to supply ap­
preciable quantities of weapons because a guer-
rilla must be self-sustaining. It should be noted 
that while Cuba does supply some funds, guerrilla 
handbooks also suggest that bank robberies make 
guerrillas self-sufficient in this respect. Leftist 
militants have in fact resorted to robberies in 
Peru, Venezuela 9 and Argentina 
E. Subsequent Employment and Countermeasures 
1. Clandestine reporting has established a 
number of incidents of sabotage, terrorism, guer­
rilla activity·and other subversive action in which 
individuals known to have received training in Cuba 
have participated. The clearest cases involved the 
establishment of local guerrilla training camps by 
Ecuadoreans and Brazilians returning from training 
in Cuba. In each case 9 however, our evidence of· 
the guerrilla training in Cuba comes from clandes­
tine sources, there is no legal evidence of such 
Cuban instruction, and there has been no move to 
prosecute. All 48 arres'ted in Ecuador were re-
leased after short detention. Two individuals ar­
rested in connection with the Peasant League training 
activities in Brazil are still known to be detained. 
2. The records maintained by Latin American 
security services are inadequate and far from stand­
ardized, so that it has been difficult to establish 
a statistical approach to arrests for all types of 
subversive activities. Available reporting indicates 
at least llpOOO such arrests since 1 January 1962, 
but a survey shows that most of these arrests amounted 
to little more than detention and some interrogation. 
There were relatively few trials and convictions, prob­
ably not exceeding five per cent of arrests. 
3. Some of those arrested were released for lack 
of evidence~ In other casesp for example in Ecuador, 
Brazil, and in Peru until last January, there has been 
little evidence of any inclination on the part of the 
government to prosecute. In cases where trials have 
taken place, the local security services have frequently 
-6-
SECRET 
NW -~095.~ Docld.: 32283208 Page' 10 
