, 
SECTION 6,. 
- PART II -
PUBLIC.A.TIONS, PRESS., .A.ND PUBLIC. CU.NT.A.CTS 
d. Each insert should be filed with the bulletin to which it relates 0 
No indexing o.f individual notices contained therein is necess.ary· .. 
4. Each. office must submit to the Bureau annually at lea.st three suggest.ions 
for articles, identifying the suggested authbr, and briefly describing 
the nature of the suggested article. The article should not be prepared, 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained •. Suggestions may cover any general or specific sub­
ject of law enforcement interest, inQluding the following: 
a. Better investigative or administrative methods and techniques of 
any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI National 
Academy men • .: ,- ~- ~-
b. Improved or unusual equipment being·used 
c 0 Complicated, unusu;;i.l,. and well-handl.ed cases which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems and exceilent police work 
dQ Human interest items from local police work 
e. Police and_ firearn:is tra:i,:O:ing. subjects 
:f. Crime· pr_eventi6n a~ticles from departments wh:tch have taken aggressive 
action to combat .. juvenile.delinquency 
g 0 Transmit all material to 'the Bureau under the captidn: 
• •• • FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research (Crime Records) 
C. SPEECHES • 
1. Bureau is to be notified of all speakfng engagements. Speaking engage­
ments are to be handled by the SAC. If he cannot handle them, the .A.SAC 
should. If neither can, an Agent previously approved as a speaker is 
to be designated and the Bureau advised U.A.CB. Changes in speaking engage- " 
ments must be communicated promptly to the Bureau. Thr·ee weeks prio't' to 
any radio or television speech, a manuscript of the speech must be sub-
mitted for the Bureau's review and approvalo In some ether cases involv-
ing important speeches not dn radio or television, the Bureau will 
specifically request such manuscripts. If spteechdis to bte brt·oadcast or ( _ 
televised, prior Bureau approval of manuscrip an commi men mus-t be 
obtained. 'l'hese regulations, as well as all othe:r F~I administrative 
procedures, should not be the subject of comment to the public. 
2. Copy of Bureau letter approving speaker should be placed in his field 
personnel file. 
3. Each office is to designate a supervisor to handle speech material. 
To this supervisor must be routed law enforcement bulletins, FBI Notes, 
interesting case material, magazines, research literature, and newspaper 
clippings containing information of value to police instructors and 
approved speakers. This material to be indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in the speech material files. 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting 9ases may be: 
a. Requested by the ~ureau 
b. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c~ Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
c. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d. Novel investigations of human interest 
3. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b. Rureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c. •Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d. .Accurately 
e, .After a review of the entire file 
f. In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g, Showing the actual time which is to be s~rved under sentence 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 916 
2 
9-30-60 
