13-00000 
-
1t/71 
C 
c. Economic. The Agency was able to produce a continuous amount 
of intelligence from Agent sourc~s on the Cuban sugar, oil and trans­
portation industries, much of which was in the form-of statistical 
summaries. In a number of instances, this intelligence was pro­
vided by .agents whp had direct access to this information by virtue. 
of their jobs .. We also have been able to get continued reporting 
on general economic conditions and foreign trade. Among the most 
significant agents refrt_ing economic information were: . 
1. A Cuban ~surance)salesman, previously noted, who 
through his extensive contacts and sub-agr.nts has been able to 
provide information on sugar production, ~n~uran.,e~)affairs and 
the Cuban banking system. . 0'15 c 
, . 0~ ()6 
2. • An off\cial of tho !Ministry of Economy),{_a close associate 
• of Che GUEVARAj who has pro'\Plded useful economic intelligence. 
3. A relative of a former Cubnn president, previously noted, 
who has provided detailed import-export figures; detailed documentary 
reports on petroleum .. . .cSs . 
4. ~ higll-leve:U official of Cubana Airlines who reportedly 
provided high-level information on Cubana Airlines, particularly 
financial and material affairs. g-
5. A res~· ent of Mexico andGiirector of an It~lian-controiled. 
pharmaceutical firm who travels to Cuba where he has good contacts 
in the Minist of Industry, who has reported economic informati~n~ 
6. A Dutch businessman who has access to Cuban economic 
officials and who has provided useful economic information. 
7. U. s. trained CUban engineer who provided detailed reports . 
onGetroleum,industry. · . • • . 
~~ .•. 
d. Sociolo~ical and General Conditions. The Agency has 
provided a steady and relatively heavy flow of intelligence • 
covering such matters as the state of resistance activities, mood 
of the populace, living conditions, etc., from agents in nearly 
every Cuban province.- A survey of agents reporting this type· 
of information has not been completed, because almost all of our 
agents have reported on th~s low priority topic from time to time. 
4. Within .the Terms of the Agency's Mission, What Target 
Was It Unable to cover and Why? 
a. Paragraph 3 above sets forth in general the degree to '~ 
which the major Cuban targets were covered during the reporting 
... ;; 
