13-00000 
polygrap~. Standard polyg;aphs A-f~ic~;·c:~~~try.-Th~-in;t~~~t~r -~a~-Mik; 
:.Jre fo 1Jr v~riat:iles: pulse,.blood pres- Kradz, a crill'linologist anc retired police 
respitcstion and perspiration. Some· officer. Kr adz projects ti'!e tough-cop 
noas1Jre addi)ional pl1iysiological "ari- image, b1.1t he is a living rebuttal to the Po-
The rrore variables measured. th9 lisn joke. Titere is nothing about forensic 
r~; iable the polygraph. science. froM fingerprints to po!ygraphy. on 
i a11u McQui$IOn discovered that the 1111hich the mar, is ,,01 a,·, e.,,pert. 
9ncies composing the human voice The first morning of the course was 
o! fixed; they shift very siighlly from devoted to the physical ope~ation of the 
to fourteen times every second. But PSE. Tne device is used-in conjunction with 
:i1e speal<er is under stress. this nor- a Uher tape recorder. whicn has four speeds 
requency modulation disappears. and can te manually-wound back. to locate 
re:-nair.s are the pure component fre- a particular point on the t3pe. The testimony 
:ies of the -1oice. And a strong indica- to be evalu3ted is recorded at a tape speed 
:a! the s;;eai<e• is lying. of 7½ inches per second, therrp12yed back 
1 two rr.sr. developed a device to and stopped at the beginning of the utter­
t:his pM:ic:r:enon and planned to use ance in question. The recorder is slO\ved 
:1.n add::;c!"!a! ··channel" on the poly- to 15.'16 inches per second and piayed. The 
,_ The., tr:s.; disCO\'ered that the new sound. no longer recognizable as a human 
Jle was so reiiaole and accurate a voice. is a long. low rumble. 
Jre of psy::!"lo!ogical stress there was The PSE itself is built into an attache case. 
no na-i:: t: measure the other poly- ·The case opens to reveal a chart drivo. sim­
varia~::s. liar to an electrocardiograph, and a number 
:id fror:, r-:e recessity of strapping the of buttons and knobs. A single cable con-
e! in:o a .:r.air. stretching a pneumo- nects the PSE to the tape recorder. 
ic tube =.:~oss his cnest. gtuing elec- As th_e tape recorder reels slowly tum, 
i to his pa'.:TIS. and ciamping his arm and a rumble issues from its speaker, the 
blood-press.,;re cuff. the PSE proved PSE stylus dances back and forth across 
much r:"'c·e versatile than the poly- the moving chart paper, leaving behind a 
. Because it can work from a tele- ragged trail. Then the recorder is stopped, 
! or tape racorder, the PSE can be the chart paper is stopped, and that's all 
without tne knowledge or even the there is to it. The result is a strip of paper 
:al presence of ~he subject. with a squiggly line. The rest is up to the 
<ed Color:e: Bell to tell me about some human eye and brain. • 
things the PSE was being used for, On the afternoon of the first day, Kradz 
ially cases in which a conventional showed us what to look for. The unstressed 
·aph couldn't be used. He. mentioned voice looks like an untrimmed hedge, with 
e police in Howard County, Maryland, stalks of different heights sticking up (and 
:ie.en using the PSE for two years; they down) at irregular intervals. But add some 
1ad great success in establishing the stress, and that hedge begins to look 
mce of suspects who were afraid to trimmed. The greater the stress, the 
tto a polygraph examination because 
machine's forbidding aspect. 
' 
r - ·, o· -r· • •• ·•-·• -•-••-• •• •• • •• ..,,, • .. ,.....,,,,... •v 
the PSE. There is, first of all, the matter of 
the "outside issue." • _ 
Most pevple, Kradz pointed out, have 
some sort of cieep secret they don't want 
kno .... n. When faced with a polygraph exami­
nation. a person rnay be more concemed 
that this outsida issue may corr,e to light 
than he is about the actual substance of 
the interrogation. This can produce irrele­
vant str9ss in some of his answers, and mis- • 
lead the examiner. iherefore it is is neces­
sary for the examiner to interview the sub­
ject before the examination, go over all of 
the questions he intends to ask, and assure· 
the subject he will ask only these questions. 
. I had reason to remember this later, when 
I ran my first real interrogation tape. • 
The interrogation always includes the 
question. "Are you afraid that I will ask you 
about something we have not discussed?" 
A negative answer with no sign of stress· 
eliminates the outside-issue problem. Also, 
the examiner always asks some innocuous 
questions, such as, "Do you like the color 
blue?" in order to observe the subject's 
general state of tension. And there is always 
one "red-herring" question. 
The red herring is used to identify the • 
"guilt complex responder." Such a person . _ 
shows stress when he responds to any • 
accusatory question. The examiner may 
ask, "Did you steal the watch?" when it is 
money, not a watch, that fs missing. A 
stressed denial will alert the examiner, who . 
carefully compares this response to the 
stress produced by questions about the 
missing money. • • 
That night the class was given tapes of 
real police interrogations. In most cases. 
Kradz was the examiner; and in every case, 
he knew the background and resolution of 
the matter. One case ,-was assigned con--
cerned a young man ·accused of stealing 
money from his father's store. Kradz started I went on to describe some of his 
ion's other uses, actual or potential. 
• and the Federal government are ex­
~ its use as a defense against skyjack­
id telephoned bomb threata, and as 
ns of speeding up customs inspec­
Some doctors and ·psychiatrists are 
PSEs to study patients' physical and 
I stress. The National Committee to 
igate Aerial Phenomena, a private 
The more I read, by asking the "outside-issue" question. Nu, 
the more I doubted . the young man replied, he was not afraid 
Kradz would ask him a question they hadni 
that investigates UFO reports, Is 
sing the PSE to Interview witnesses 
> sightings. • 
ced Bell if he would lend me a PSE 
!riment with, in order to write a piece 
:he devic;:e. He agreed, with two con­
. First, I must take Dektor's three-day 
in operating the instrument; second, 
,sing the PSE, I must review my 
etation of its output with his staff, in 
!rest of accuracy. This seemed rea­
e, so I agreed. 
:curse was held in the meeting room 
>liday Inn in Falls Church, Virginia. 
;iht otheT"'StbEler:its were employees 
tomers who had purchased the 
. These included a private detective 
, i~ Pennsylvania, a New York chain 
·•··-··""" ... 
. ,.-. _ _.·_-
the official account of • discussed. Then the following exchange _ 
what happened • took place: 
that day in Dallas "Do you live in Howard County?" -
"Yes." •• •. 
' "Do you suspect someone of having taken _______________ the money?" · • - .-
smoother the shape. If tlie subject was 
experiencing the hard stress which accom­
panies deception, the over-air outline of the 
figure tends to take on a rectangular shape, 
a concertina as seen by the player. Kradz 
showed slide after slide of charts made dur­
ing actual police interrogations. He told us 
the background of each case and pointed 
out the tell-tale signs of deception, when­
ever they were present. 
That night each student took a PSE back 
to his room to practice operating it. Some 
coordination must be learned to become 
facile in handling the recorder and the PSE, 
but clearly the difficult part of the cours~ 
-would be learning how to read and interpret 
the charts. 
The next day we reamed the theory of 
"No." 
"Are you wearing a white shirt?'" 
.. Yes." 
"Do you know who took the money?" 
"'No." 
"Are you wearing a ringT • 
"Yes." 
.. Did you take the money?'' 
"No." 
There were a few red-herring questions 
to check for the guilt complex response. 
The questions about wearing a white shirt 
and a ring and living in Howard County had 
been included to measure the background 
stress elicited by Irrelevant issues. • ·-
I ran the tape and charted it on the PSE. 
All but two of his responses were· un­
stressed. The question aboursuspecting • 
. . . 
•· 
