[107 0-P 
[ 
SECTION io1 . .[1NLAL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND colrnENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
14. Make 13-Ve:ry e:f:fort to pre-vent discontinued informant from becoming in-vol-ved 
in situations which may prove embarrassing to informant or Government. 
Immediately a:fter he -testifies :for :first time, SAC should ha-ve serious talk 
with informant in presence of Agent who handled informant. This interview 
should be conducted in :field off'ice and informant told that: 
a~ Re will no longer be operated by Bureau 
ba Since he is public figure, he will probably be contacted by representa­
tives of press, radio, and television for interviews and appearances 
c,. Re may be sough-t as witness by congressional committees, Immigration 
and Naturalization Service, and state authorities 
d. In connection with sucn interviews and appearances, inf'ormant must 
continue to be :factual and truthful and must not build up or embellish 
s-tatements, :for i:f he does so he will wind up in serious trouble 
Advise Bureau results of' such interview and comment on its possible ef:fec­
tiveness. 
Ee aler-t to possibili-ties of former informant being contacted by represen­
tatives of' publicity media and as witness by congressional committees, 
• 
INS, and state authorities. SAC is responsible for knowing when former informant 
is scheduled or is likely to appear at hearing or make public appearance 
o:f any kind. Prior thereto in each instance, former inf'ormant must be 
contacted and instructions abo-ve reiterated by Agent who handled informant. 
Emphasize to former informant that he must stick to truth and make certain 
he can back up what he says, and if there is any deviation he will be sub-
jected to criticism, possible libel, slander, or other criminal actions. 
If' he inquires as to whether he should appear or testify or otherwise 
cooperate with any public or pri-vate indi-vidual or agency, advise, him he 
must make that decision himself, but if he has appeared as Go-vernment 
witness in case which has not been finally adjudicated and decides in 
aff'irmative, he should contact USA :for instructions. Advise Bureau of any 
such situations and results of any interviews conducted. • 
15. When contacting Agent feels discontinued informant could cause embarrass-
ment to Bureau, make arrangements to ha-ve former informant come to field 
office where he will be personally met by SAC. At that time, he should be 
impressed with fact that his services were appreciated and .were of consid­
erable assistance to security of country and remind him that he si.gned agree­
ment when he was acti_ve as informant to maintain his relation with Bureau 
on confidential basis. SAC should stress necessity for informant to main­
tain this confidence. 
P. FURNISHING INFORMll.NTS TO IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (INS) 
1. INS, in order to enforce its responsibilities, must obtain evidence to 
prove that certain aliens, due to their membership in certain groups, are 
undesirable and deportable or subject to denaturalization. 
2. Cooperate fully with INS in these cases and make efforts consistent with 
your own interests to make available information and witnesses where 
possible. 
3. If contacted by INS inquiring for informants and you have discontinued 
informant or one who would be of assistance to INS and whose loss would not 
affect your work, furnish his identity to Bureau, together with your 
recommendation. 
4. Bureau will review facts and advise as to whether or not his identity may 
be disclosed to INS. 
5. Before any informant is turned o-ver to INS, obtain his permission. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1497 
20 
10-15-74 
• 
