I 
I 
I 
At the conclusion of the meetings with Amlash, Headquarters 
cabled on 9 September that, based on what little feel Headquarters 
had, Amlash appeared hopeless as an intelligence performer and should 
be approached as a chief conspirator allowed to recruit his own co­
horts. He should be urged to recruit a few trusted friends to assist 
him, initially in "FI and Ops reporting" and then progress to sabotage 
and more serious matters on: an orderly basis. (DIR 6 7110 to Porto 
Alegre, JMWAVE and Rio.) 
On 11 September, Porto Alegre 0708 to DIR summarized the intel- • 
ligence information Amlash had given on Soviet units in Cuba, saying 
• all IRBM and bombers had been removed. By this time Amlash had left 
Biazil apparently heading for a vacation in Europe. - ; 
A document in the file dated 16 Septert).ber and marked OFPA 72775 
appears to be a transcript of a conversation obtained by covert means. 
There is no indication as to where the conversation takes place, but 
it probably is in the Cuban Embassy in -Paris. 
"Mary: I don't want. to imagine things but 
this thing of Amlash. • 
Moreno: It is either a tremendous secret or a, 
top secret matter (unreadable)then the 
word· "treason" or "reason"). 
Betty: I believe it is a top'secret matter." 
By letters of September 14 and September 16, Amlash. stayed in 
contact with Amwhip. Pari:;3 station apparently was picking up responsi-
bility for Amlash at this""' tiJme, since Paris 0706 to· DIR dated 19 • 
September asks for some background material on Amlash. 
On 19 September, JMWAVE 4580 to DIR warns that Amlash is part of 
an anti-communist group in Cuba and details the membership of his group 
as well as a communist group. The message also notes that Fidel is 
allegedly aware of the two groups and acts as moderator between them 
in order to maintain cohesion in the Government of Cuba. 
Nevertheless, Amwhip is asked to continue to work-with Amlash 
and is assigned to accompany him around Europe. According to Paris 
0934 to. DIR dated 7 October, Amlash met with case officer O* on 5 
October. Case officer o sat and listened permitting Amlash to get 
everything off his chest. Amlash seemed to be complaining about the 
. low level espionage matters that had been discussed at the September 
meeting in Brazil, implying he had a more valuable role. Case officer 
. 0 "provided. necessary assurances his feelings not in fact true and 
that his case receiving consideration hi hest levels. (emphasis added)'."' 
________ -~'With this problem which had undoubted - e_en ering _Amlash con-:-_________ _ 
* The files do not accurately identify these case officers. 
•• St and••■••••••• however, were the principal case officers. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 476 
