6J" - K p_~RT II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONT.AC'.l.'S 
reI'erred to Bureau by local law enforcement agencies or where Bureau · c·. 
fugitives are taken into custody by local law enforcement officers .• 
[ 
[ 
..: 
They should also be advised of violations-of local laws coming tQ the 
attention of the FBI. . . 
b. Visits to Washington 
When the field requests special courtesies be afforded certain indi­
vidu.als, including law enforcement officers, coming to .Washington, D. C., 
the communication so advising the Bureau shall contain bi9graphical 
aata and a brief summary of information in the field off,ice files con­
cerning tne visitor. 
When law enforcement executi.ves are contemplating a :vis.it to the Bureau 
at Washington, D. C., ask them to call at the office of the[h'ead of 
the]Training Division, Room[5234,]J"ustice Building. 
c. Letters of commendation, congratulations., appreciation, and 
condolence 
When letters of commendation, congratulations, appreciation," or 
condolence from the Director are recommended by the field, such 
recommendations should be submitted promptly •. They should include· 
the specific facts- on which. the recommendation is ·based, full identi­
fying data and address of the citizen, and the result of a search of 
the field office indices concerning the citizen. In connection with 
the election of officers of police· associations at conventions cover­
ing more than one field division territory, the field division in 
whose territory the convention was physically held is ~esponsible for 
submitting any recommendations for letters of congratulations. The. 
office submitting such request should summarize brief.ly the relations 
with these officers~ incorporating any 4erogatory data which might 
preclude such letters. Inasmuch as the recow.mending office is not 
likely to possess all data, pertinent other field divisions should 
submit _.a brief, ·supplementai summary concerning officers recommended 
for letters who.reside in their territory. 
4. Inquiries concerning status .of Bureau cases 
When a state official has expressed interest in the prosecutive status 
of a Bureau case, for a leg_itimate reason, such as deferment of state 
prosecution pending the outcome of the Federal case, insure that such 
official is kept appropriately advised, including the final outcome 
of the matter. 
5. u. s. Cabinet officers, Senators, and Congressmen 
If an SAC receives an inquiry from a Cabinet officer or u. S. Senator or 
Congressman concerning an official matter, it should be brought to the 
Bureau's attention immediately. 
K. SOURCES OF INFORMATION 
Definition 
.An individual, organization, or concern willingly furnishing information to em....:. 
ployees frequently enough to justify making a record where the source need not 
be proteoted. If occasionally the source must be protected, this may be done. 
If sources must be constantly concealed, they become informants or confidential 
sources and must be handled as such. 
i. Index 
Index card (3 by 5 inches) must be made up to contain: 
ao Names 
b. Addresses 
o. Organization or concern 
d. Type of information furnished 
e. Date of development 
6 
10-29-62 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 957 
( 
., 
