13-00000 
• .. _ •. ,, _.:_.-. 
".-.... - ...... :· .... •• ... • 
·.: ... ··:.···.:.-
Mr. HOOVER. I know of no substantial evidence of any type that would support • 
any contention of that character. I have read all of the requests that have 
come to the Bureau from this Commission, and I have read and signed all the 
replies that have come to the Commission. 
In addition, I have read manv of the reports that our agents have made and 
I have been unable to find any scintilla of evidence showing· any foreign con­
spiracy or any domestic conspiracy that culminated in the assassination of 
President Kennedy. 
Representative FORD. May I ask this, Mr. Hoover. As I understand your 
testimony, it is based on the evidence that has heen accumulated thus far.? 
Mr. HOOVER. That is correct; sir. • 
Representative FoBD. Is the Federal Bureau of Investigation continuing its 
investigation of all possible rawiflcations of this assassination?. 
Mr. Hoo\'EB. That is correct. We are receiving and we, I expect, will con­
tinue to receive for days or weeks to come, letters from individuals that normally 
would probably be in the category of what we would call crank ietters in which 
various weird allegations are made or in which people have reported psychic 
vibrations. We are still running out letters of that character and in turn 
making a report to this Commission upon it, notwithstanding • the fact that • 
on the face of it the allegation is without any foundation. Individuals who could 
not have known any of the facts have made, some very strange statements. 
There have been publications and books written, the contents-of which have been 
absurd and without a scintilla of foundation of fact. I feel, from my experience 
iil the Bureau, where we are in constant receipt over the years of these so-called 
crank letters, that such allegations will be going on possibly for some yead 
to come. 
I, personally, feel that any.finding of the Commission will not be accepted by 
everybody, because there are bound to be some extremists who have very pro­
nounced views, without any foundation for them, who will disagree violently 
with whatever findings the Commission n:iakes. But I think it is essential that 
the FBI investigate the allegations that are received in the future so it can't be 
said that we had .ignored them or that the case is closed and forgotten. 
Representative FoBD. Could you give us some idea • of how many agents are 
currently working to one degree or another on any aspects o~ this case? 
Mr. Hoovu. I • would estimate,- Congressman Ford, that there are at the 
present time at least 50 or 60 men giving their entire time to various aspects of 
the investigation, because while Dallas is the offl~ of origin, investigation is 
required in auxiliary offices such as Los Angeles or San Francisco, and even in 
some foreign countries like Mexico. We have representatives in Mexico City. 
At the outset of the lnvesttgation, following the assassination, it was the 
desire of the President to have this report completed by the Bureau just as 
quickly as possible, and as thoroughly as possible, and I would say we had about 
150 men at that time working on the report in the field, and at Washington, P.O. 
Now, all the reports that come in from the field are, of course, reviewed at· 
Washington. by the supervisor lu charge of the case, and then in turn by the 
assistant director of the div.ision, and then in turn by Mr. Belmont, who is the 
a~stant to the Director. 
Reports in which there is a controversial issue or where statements have 
been made of the existence of some particular thing that we have never heard 
of before, I myself, go over these. t.o see that we :haven't missed anything or 
haven't had any gap in the investigation ·so it can be tied down. 
Recently the National Enquirer had a fant.astic article in it as t.o the existence 
of a letter that had been written or a request that had been made by the Depart­
ment of Justice to Chief Curry of the Dallas Police Department, to withhold 
arresting Rubi·nstein,.or Ruby, and Oswald after the Oswald attempt on Gen­
eral Walker's life. 
First, I had the agent in charge at. Dallas interview Chief Curry and I have 
sent t.o the Commismon a letter as to what Chief Curry had to say. He branded 
it as an entire lie-that he had never received any request of that kind. I had 
our files searched to be certain we had not written any such letter as that and 
found we had not. I requested the Department of Justice to advise me whether 
they had written any such letter and Mr. Katzenbach advises there is no ref-
99 
