.. ,· . ' . . • 
·' l -< - .2 0 7 '·· ~,a 
f .. . 
. . . . 
• - 3-
w!wlc town. He knew that SS men were torturing captured resistance fighters uul it 
wasn't his business to interfere. : ' , . ' ~, 
t 
FOLLOWING ORDERS 
A~ a soldier you have been trained to obey orders, but as a human being you must 
take responsibility for your own acts. International and American law reccwnizc that . 0 
. an individual soldier, even if acting under orders, must bear final legal and moral rc-
.sponsibility for what he does. This principle became a part of law after World War II, 
when· the Al lied nations, meeting in Loncbn, decided that German war criminals must 
• be punished even if they committed war crimes under orders. This principle was the 
basis of the Nuremberg trials. We believe that the entire war in Viet: nam is criminal 
and immoral. We believe that the atrocities which are necessary to wage this war 
against the people of Vietnam are inexcusable. 
• OPPOSE THE WAR ·,, 
~Ve hope that you too find yourself, as a hum~n being, unable to tolerate this night-
• ma~··~ war-we hope that you will oppose it. We 
0
don't know what kind of risks we are 
taki1..g in giving you this leaflet; you won't know what risk you will be taking in opposing• 
the war. Several Gls have already refused to.fight in Vietnam and have been court­
martialed. • They have shown great courage.· We believe that they, together_with other 
• ·•courageous men who will join them, will have influence far out of proportion to their 
numbers. 
There may be many other things you can do; since you are in the service, you know 
better than civilians what sorts of opposition are possible. Bit whatever you do, keep 
your eyes open. Draw your own conclusions from the things you see, read and hear. 
, - • At orientations sessions, don't be afraid to ask questions, and if you're not 
· satisfied with the answer, keep asking. Take every chance you get to talk to your fellow 
soldiers about the war. Demand to hear civilian speakers who oppose the war debate 
• military spokesmen. 
You may feel the war is ,wrong, and still decide not to face a courtmartial. You may 
. then find yourself in Vietnam under orders. You will have to do some fighti_ng-bul don't 
do any more than you have to. Good luck. 
NW 38613 Docld:34530152 Page 6 
