• •· 
SECRET 
• :Memorandum from M. v. Hale to Mr. s. M. Mcweeney 
Be: senate Select Connnittee on Intelli~ence (SSCI) Request to Discuss the Office of Liaison and 
International Affairs (OLIA) and the 
Counterintelligence Situation in West Berlin 
DETAILS CONTINUED: 
The second reason for this gap involves the legal 
guidelines under which the u. s. military, by virtue of their 
authority of an occupying power in West Berlin, conducts 
technical surveillance and mail openings. Mr. Eliff stated that, as an occupying power, the u. s. military, much like the FBI domestically, is the entity which conducts telephone monitorings 
of criteria country establishments and personnel in the u. s. sector of West Berlin. It also opens certain mail of interest 
ft'om the East which passes through this sector. However, 
whenever there is an overhear of au. s. national or whenever there is mention made of au. s. national in a piece of 
correspondence, that u. s. national's name is not disseminated to 
any other u. s. intelligence agency. This lack of dissemination 
is as a result of a lawsuit in the early 1970s against the u. s. Arm:y which, at that time, had in fact been monitoring the 
activities of u. s·. nationals .. As a consequence of this lawsuit, very_ stringent guidelines were written which compelled the u. s. 
military to use the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to 
monitor Americans including stringent guidelines for minimizing 
overhears of u. s. nationals when monitoring non u. s. nationals. 
The net results of these restrictio~s is that, according to Mr. Eliff, 15 years worth of overhears of u. s. nationals as • 
well as the like potential collection of names of u. s. persons 
via mail openings, has been lost. . . 
Mr. Eliff advised it was his belief these minimization restrictions were too stringent and should be amended to allow 
for dissemination. He however stated that he thought the issue 
should be brought up after the upcoming elections in that he did 
not believe a "lame duck" administration would be interested in undertaking the issue. 
SECRET 
-3-
I I 
( CONTINUED - OVER) 
