20 February 1964 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJ'ECT: Meeting with the President - 20 February 1964 - Alone 
1. I advised the President of my willingness to go with him and to meet 
earl.;y in the day with General Eisenhower if he thought this would be 
constructive. He said he felt General Eisenhower might feel he was being 
high-pressured and that he intended merely to advise him of the plan to 
surface the OXCART and exchange formalities. He would then tell him he 
was ordering me to go out and brief him in the next week or two and I 
should make 1n y own arrangements. 
Z. I told the President we had a very sensitive effective operation 
working in Mexico City jointly with President Mateos which involved 
telephone surveillance and was being done in a most careful manner with 
his knowledge and with the assistance of a few of his trusted officials. 
This had resulted in a very intimate relationship between our station chief, 
Mr. Win Scott and the President. Ambassador Mann knew of this from 
Scott, as did certain selected people in State Department. However 
President Mateos did not know of Mann's knowledge of the operation and 
looked upon the operation as an intimate arrangement between himself and 
the CIA station. I mentioned that Mateos had been best man at Win Scott's 
recent wedding. I said the President should not mention this 'but I wanted 
him to know about it if it was raised by President Mateos. 
3. I told President Johnson that we continued our interrogation of 
Nosenko; our counterintelligence people were inclined to feel he was a 
plant but had not made up their minds. President said he thought he was 
probably legitimate and would give us some good information. I said I 
hoped this was true - that we certainly were taking advantage of everything 
that he did give us; that we were working closely with the FBI, however we 
could only conclude at the moment that the Soviet's performance and 
action were so different from any other defector case that our suspicions 
had been aroused. The President asked to be kept informed. 
4. The President then raised the question of Spain, suggesting I 
might return to Spain to talk again to Franco. He said he was in a very 
difficult situation because of announcement of the cut-off of aid to 
Britain, France and Yugoslavia which he did not know about until he read it 
in the paper, and that he was beside himself because he wanted to give aid 
of $31 million to Spain but had the greatest difficulty in the justification. 
NW 5 955 Docld:32283348 Page 2 
