SECRET 3etsy Pal.Iner 
Revi~<:f Manolo Ray y ~ro Files .:. _yolume~ .!. ".". X7I~.!.._ 
April 24, 1978 
Volume VIII - September 4, 1962 - Decem~er 271 1962 
1., Telegram Inf'orma.tion Report (circa Sept, 10) Unevaluated information. 
Ray in the U.S. 8-9 September. Intends forming new organization, Some of 
those participating with Ray in this effort are Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, 
Ramon Barquin and Justo Carrillo. Ray is of the opinion that nothing 
will be done about Cuba in the immediate future as the ?resident of the 
United States is fulfilling "an ezpedient of a political natv.re." Eowever1 
there is an ally in the White House who has assured Ray that if he orgJnizes 
a purely revolutionary group, he will be heard. 
2. Junta Revolucionaria Cubana 
Declaration of Principles outline the following areas: 
1. Cuban Reaffirmation - recognition of sovereignty of the people, through suffrae 
2. Human Rights - human fraternity and social solidarity for all Cubans 
3, Social Justice - e({Uality of opportunity for education, work, homes, etc. 
4. Economic Development - intense industrialization 
5. .Agrarian Reform - Cuban pesantry to own land he cultivates 
6. International Relations - break with Soviet bloc 
7, Restoration of Legitimate Property - not that under public power 
8. Political Parties - Communist Party will be proscribed 
9, Political Prisoners - immediate release 
10, Elections - within 18-month period 
2, Dispatch to Chief, Task Force W from Chief of Station, JMWAVE 
Date obscured 
( AMTHRILL-1 provided inf'orma.tion on Ray obtained from Silvia KOURI de 
Pend.as, a fellow student of Ray's at Institute de Segunda Ensena.nza #1 in 
Havana. Ray never know to have sympathy for r.ommunist cause. However, one 
of his good friends, Pedro Valdes Vivo, is active member of Communist cell 
and a brother of Raul Valdes Vivo, now sub-director of Comnrunist paper 
"Noticias de Hoy. " 
3, Cable to Priority San Juan, Info: Priority JM;:vAVE, Priority Mexico r.ity 
From: Director (Rodriguez originator) dated 9 Oct 1962 
-Admission visa not pouched 00 forwarding document will be in WAVE hands 
10 October forre,ss ing to Ray. ~chuga is principal target in area of 
Ray trip. Stress desire keep Lechuga in place in preference to defection. 
4. Memorandum for the Record dated 8 October 1962 from£?atrick I, Ka.rnley J 
SUbject: Notes on Manolo Ray 
In conversation with 'Luis Laboy, Laboy said Ray does not have any 
significant following among Cuban exiles -- says Ray is honest person 
completely motivated. by patriotism but lacks qualities of a politician. 
Says Ray is too blunt and even Cisneros is not happy with him these days. 
Puer~ Rican Police are apparently canvassing Cuban exiles regarding Manolo 
Ray. In[S~-1 Report.#54 dated 30 Sept 1962, he refers to fact that both he 
and Fermin Alvarez Silva were visited by officer of PR Internal Security Force 
soliciting their opinions of Ray. 
SECRET 
