13-000Q0 
SECRET 
Jake on that - in terms of trying to get air support -
it was basically on a person-to-person basis. It's 
what you can wheedle out of somebody and get them to do 
it the right way instead of being able to command them 
and not having to i;;pend your time massaging a guy's 
back. That's one of the key problems I thought, and 
also Jake's relationship, or Washington's relationship 
with Miami, was obviousiy, if you read the report, and 
even the rebuttal, I thought it was very confusing. 
Case officers did not know really who their boss was. 
Maybe they should have looked at who was writing their 
fitness reports, I suppose is one way, but it was too 
haphazard. We tried to organize it, again it was sheer 
luck. We tried to organize it, as I say, as if Miami 
was a foreign. station and Ted had all the rights and 
privileges of a Chief of Station abroad. The fact that 
he was in the United States didn't bother us at all; we 
never thought of it that way. Largely because you've 
got a guy like Harvey in charge, who, despite the fact 
that he was a gruff SOB, had a heart of melted butter 
when it came to his own tro9ps. He would never let 
anybody, at any level, blast at one of his troops 
without himself, in effect, taking out of his guns and 
shooting the SOB who did it. 
I'll give you a perfect example of that. I was on a 
telephone call to J.C. King, and J.C. was chewing me 
out on the phone about something I wasn't. even involved 
in, but anyway he chewed me out. I, finished my 
conversation with him, if you want to call it that, 
hung up, and at that time Harvey buzzed me to come in 
and see him. So I came in and I must of had a hang-dog 
look on my face or something, and he looked up at· me 
and he said, "What's the matter with you?" I said J.C. 
just chewed the ass out of me. He said, "For what?" I 
said, "Not~ing, I wasn't even involved." He didn't ask 
any questions. He picked up the phone and dialed to 
J.C. Himself. Before I coul~ say anything he started 
to read J.C. the riot act, in only his- language, which 
makes paratroop language look like a church meeting. 
In effect he said, "Look, if there is anybody that's 
going to chew out my troops, I!m going to chew out my 
troops. Don't you ever do that again without checking 
with me first. If you've got trouble with some of my 
troops you talk to me and not to them." Moves his arm 
as if he is slamming down the receiver. I think J.C. 
must have ·lost his ear then. It was awful. Ok, you 
got a guy like Bill Harvey in charge - Jake couldn't do 
that. But Jake for example, Jake and Col. Jack Hawkins 
both resigned from.the Bay of Pigs operation up in the 
Agency. Bissell took them to his house, on a Sunday 
morning, talks them into reneging and staying with the 
4 
SECRET 
