6B - D 
- PART II -
[ 
c. 
[ 
t 
t 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
I 
t 
D. 
SECTION 6. AND PUBLIC CON.TACTS PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, 
4. Each office must submit to.the Bureau annually at leasi; three suggestions 
for articles, identify.ing th(;! suggested author, and briefly describing 
the nature of the suggested article. The article should not be prepared 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until. the Bureau directs' 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any general or spe·cific sub­
ject of law enforcement interest, including the following: 
a. Better investigative or administrative methods and techniques of 
any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI National 
Academy graduates 
b. Improved or unusual equipment being used 
c. Complicated, unusual, and well-handled cases which are illustrative 
of law enfqrcement problems and excellent police work 
d. Deletecl. 
e. Police and firearms training subjects 
f. Crime prevention articles from departments which have taken aggi•essive 
action to combat juvenile delinquency 
g. Transmit all material to the Bureau under the caption: 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research[(Files and Communications Division)] 
SPEECHES 
1~ (The speech program is the personal responsibility of the SAC, and the 
SAC or ASAC should handle principal commitmentso If neither available, 
these can be handled by an experienced and well-informed Agent Supervisor 
approved for the commitment by the SAC or ASAC. good judgment should 
dictate ~rt1en a manuscript should be submitted to FBIHQ for approval in 
advance of a speaking engagement, particularly in regard to radio and 
television appearances. . 
2o It is not necessary to advise FBIHQ of each speaking engagemento Each 
office will maintain for a minimum of one year and one regular office 
inspection a control file in connection with acceptances and declinations 
of speech invitationso Each year on January 10th ~nd on July 10th. 
each office will submit to FBIHQ a statistical report of speaking 
commitments handled.o This will be divided into engagements _by the SAC,· 
the ASAC, and other Agent Supervisors; and will be further subdivided 
into speeches as well as radio, television, and Career Day appearances 
by these three groupso 
3. Each office should maintain a speech material file for the use of speakerso 
This should include Law Enforcement Bulletin items, interesting case 
material, magazine articles, research literature, newspaper clippings 
pertaining to law enforcement.matters of interest, and i!ems of value_i~ 
connection with public appearances of Bureau representativeso In addition 
to being maintained in current status, this ~peech material should be 
indexed as to subject matter in the office fileso] 
INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
lo Write-ups of interesting cases may be: 
a. Requested by the Bureau 
bo Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c. Suggested by other offices 
2o They are prepared concerning cases of: 
ao Major importance 
b. Public interest 
c9 Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d .. Novel investigations of human interest 
3o They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b .. Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
da Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
f .. In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g •. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
2 
6-27-73 
(. 
