13-00000 
±nizw--?dr"t#tN<z 1rt i:1:frri:w;;Hh:riftitit iatitdiriiiifJSStTs"fi"'·-w n' .·,·r ;1:ifiiitit:t•s ·£5:rrr H' 
EDITORIAL 
The Understanding of Natural Language by Computers 
Proposition: Computers are making long strides towards 
understanding natural language as used by human 
beings, and will eventually understand such language 
as well as many human beings do. 
What do we mean by: computers? understanding lan­
guagefnatural language? And what is the evidence for this 
proposition? 
The word "computers" here refers to powerful comput­
ers that have appropriate programs written by human be­
ings plus the programmed capacity to improve their pro­
grams by using experience. An example of such improve­
ment is Dr. A. L. Samuels' famous checker-playing pro­
gram, which can learn from experience, and which plays 
far better checkers than Dr. Samuels himself can play. 
The experience may consist of the following at least: 
Answers from human beings to questions posed by 
the computer; 
Differences between computed results and a priori 
specified results; 
Signals from the environment, such as instrument 
readings; 
Information obtained by "looks" at the environment, 
as for example recognition of the character A, as 
in optical character recognition; 
The interpretation of words, as with FORTRAN ex­
pressions. 
Probably there are even more categories of experience 
which a powerful computer program can use to modify it­
self to become even a better program. 
In regard to "understanding language", there are over 
S00 languages which computers have been programmed to 
understand, when written precisely according to stated 
rules: among them, BASIC, FORTRAN, COBOL, many 
kinds of machine language, etc. 
"Natural language" is the ordinary language used by hu­
man beings, subject to the requirement that for a computer 
implicit understandings must be stated. For example, when 
a speaker exclaims "Ouch!", a great deal of the meaning 
comes from the listener's observations of the speaker. But 
a computer, like a blind man, cannot "see" the situation, 
and must be told more than the ordinary. listener. 
With some definitions taken care of, let us consider evi­
dence for the main proposition stated above. This evidence 
includes the information published in several recent ar­
ticles in Computers and Automation. • 
The article "'Do What I Mean' - The Programmer's As­
sistant", by Warren Tcitelman, in the April 1972 issue, 
• described a "programmer's assistant", called "DWIM"; this 
was a "'front end" or preprocessor to an interactive pro­
gram for operating with LISP expressions. The front end 
was tolerant of the programmer's mistakes in typing, in low-. . . . - . . . . ... .. .. . 
mistake occurred, it would inquire of the human program­
mer what he meant, suggesting the correctly spelled alter­
native, and so on. In this way the human programmer was 
relieved of much of the burden of expressing himself ex­
actly and correctly the first time, and his efficiency in 
using the LISP interactive program greatly increased. 
The three articles "Computer Programming Using Natu­
ral Language" by Edmund C. Berkeley, Andy Langer, and 
Casper Otten, in the June, July, and August 1973 issues, 
demonstrated the understanding by a computer program 
called GENIE of at least some sets of instructions in ordi­
nary natural language. The vocabulary though small was 
free; and there was unlimited freedom in putting the words 
together, with about a 90% chance of complete under­
standing. The computer program that did this could be 
called 1S% GENIE, because, as the authors emphasized, it 
was still in an early stage of development. 
The article "Latest Computers See, Hear, Speak, and 
Sing - and May Outthink Man" by David Brand, in the 
October 1973 issue, enumerated many instances of com­
puters (and robots equipped with computers) whicll could 
deal with concepts expressed in natural language. One of 
the programs mentioned could for example decipher natu­
ral language commands dealing with the stacking of blocks 
of various shapes, sizes, and colors. 
The main tasks for understanding natural language ap­
pear to be the following: 
Recognition of the framework of a sentence; 
Recognition of the common meaning of groups of 
synonyms, the collection of words that "say 
the same thing"; 
Knowledge of context: the context is regularly 
specified to the computer, so that it does not 
have to deduce the context from "what is being 
said"; • 
Knowledge of a limited vocabulary consisting of per­
haps 300 to 500 words - knowledge in the sense 
that the computer program can attach meaning to 
the words either by themselves or in phrases, as 
for example it may attach the meaning of doing 
something three times to the numeral 3; 
Capacity to accept variation in the way something is 
stated by a human programmer. 
The three articles referred to above show instances of 
the achievement of all of these tasks separately. Combin­
ing all the achievements should not be too hard, especially 
since children as young as four years old show complete 
capacities to listen to many kinds of natural language, un­
derstand, and respond. 
• 
