f 87A - B .SECT~nN 87. 
• 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVERSIVE 
ORGANIZATION~ AND ~NDIVr .• s 
r 
L 
[ 
[ 
NW 38321 
Investigations and contacts with individuals connected with institutions (,· 
of learning 
a. Prior. FBIHQ approval·is required to: 
(1) Institute investigation of a faculty member or an organization 
connected with an educational institution. 
(2} Interview any student or faculty member who is not an established 
source. (Requests to conduct interviews must include individual's 
name~ position, and ·an assessment of his reliability and discretion.) 
b. Contacts with established sources in an administrative·capacity may 
be made on campus. Contacts with other established sources 1 e.g., 
students and nonacademic employees, should be made off campus. 
8. Use of officers from other agencies 
Members of other law enforcement or intelligence agencies are not to 
accompany Agents handling these investigations without specific approval 
by the SAC. 
INVESTIGATION OF ORGANIZATION~ 1. Purpose ./ , ... 
To develop evidence of any violations of statutes enumerated in A. 1. 
above and to keep the Department and other agencies and officials of the 
Executive Branch apprised of information developed which pertains to 
their areas of interest and responsibility. 
2. Responsibility to initiate investigations 
When· information is received indicating an urganization may be engaged 
in subversive activities or may be a front.group for subversive organization, 
. __ field office should initiate preliminary investigation confined to 
established sources. Notify FBIHQ that investigation has been undertaken. 
·within 45 days submit results by letter with recommendation as to 
·whether or not further investigation is warranted. 
3. Scope of investigation (r 
Pertjnent data concerning following items should be obtained and reported: 
a. Origin and scope 
Date and circumstances of founding including any incorporation.data. 
Identities of organizers. Location of headquarters and chapters or 
affiliates, if any. 
b. Stated aims and purposes, especially any information showing 
advocacy of violence or illegal activity. 
c. Officers 
Principal officers and/or leaders with succinct resume of subversive 
backgrounds, if any. 
d. Membership 
Total active membership, including logical breakdowns by organizational 
,structure and geographical area, if applicable. If exact membership 
-figures are not available and estimates are given, be certain they are 
plainly shown as estimates. In cover pages or cover communications, 
include evaluation of reliability of membership figures cited, as well 
as com.rnents concerning any significant factors involving membership, 
e.g., increases or decreases, notable shift in composition of group 
by age, sex, nationality, etc. Be certain to secure accurate description 
of all lists referred to so as to avoid confusion as to exact identity 
or significance of such lists. 
e. Publications 
All publications of group with emphasis on any which clearly depict 
subversive character of organization. 
0 
6 
. 6-6-73 
I 
\ 
t' 
i 
' l 
' i ! ! 
! 
l 
i 
' I 
l 
I 
I l 
·1 
I 
I 
j 
! ! 
~ 
