l07C-D SECTION. 107 .• ECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFID • .fAL SOURCES. 
! 
3. 
So 
6 .. 
7o 
8 .. 
Inquiries of discreet nature concerning individual's personal history 
(d~te and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, health, reliability, 
stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past employments, 
and business connections. Investigation must definitely establish th~t 
individual can be used without danger of future embarrassment due 
to instability or unreliability. Securing background information from 
indi-.;idual is not sufficient; his background mus·t 'be established by 
investigation, including discreet inquiries among persons personally 
acquainted with him. • • 
Check local arrest recordso Submit FD-165 to Identification Division to 
obtain an1 record he may have and to place stop against fingerprints if . 
on file. Lin order to eliminate the possibility of jeopardizing the secu~ity 
of Bureau informants, the word "Informanttt should not be indicated in 
blank ballot box on FD-165. It should be noted the informant file number 
serves as an indication to the Identification Division of the type of 
flash notice desired~] 
Review armed services record if applicableo 
Check draft status or status in armed forces reserveo 
Check domestic status and, if any marital difficulties, obtain detailso 
Persons being considered for use in espionage and foreign nationality 
cases may present special problems which limit scope of investigationo 
(See instructions re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, 
volume IV, of this manuala) However, where practical, cover abqve· itemso 
Leads must be handled by auxiliary offices within 30 dayso Investigation 
must be completed prior to any request to guide, direct, or designate in­
dividual as potential security informanto 
D. APPROVAL, INDOCTRINATION, AND DEVELOPMENT OF POTENTIAL INFORJ.'1ANTS 
1. When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same 
numerical sequence set out in subsection C, and request authority to des­
ignate individual as Bureau-approved potential security informant and to 
proceed with development. Submit by secure teletype (usually Nitel). 
Be brief and concise. Do not submit on UACB basis. Include physical. 
description. 
a. If the individual is a student, include separate paragraph clearly 
setting forth the number of extremist and/or security informants, 
the number of potential extremist and/or potential security in­
formants, and the number of panel sources currently being operated at 
the particular college or university to which the request pertains. 
2. After designation as Bureau-approved potential security informant, fol-
lowing matters should be made clear to him: • 
a. His assistance is strictly voluntary and he is to understand there is 
no coercion or inti~idation involved. 
b. He is not and cannot consider himself employee or "undercover Agent 11 
of FBI. Seriousness of violating impersonation statutes must be 
impressed upon him. • 
c. His cooperation must be-strictly confidential at all times an~ if 
he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so 
advise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informant 
that his relationship must remain on confidential basis and if he 
violates confidence he will be of no value and by so doing :Qureau•s 
investigative activity may be jeopardized. If he has special 
problem which would require revealing.his assistance to his wife"or 
other pertinent individual, this should be ascertained and appropriate 
recowmendation made to Bureau. • 
d. If potential informant is connected in any manner with labor union, 
inform him that Bureau is not interested in employer-employee relation­
ships as such and is only concerned with obtaining information on 
infiltration of unions by subversive elements. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1719 
4 
6-13-72 
"' 
( 
( 
