intervention. This led to an involved discussion, the general conclusion 
o! which was that such action on our part would not be desirable, but 
that should Castro be foolish enough actually to attack Guantanamo 
this would al.most certainly mean war. Mr. Gray said that he had had 
the subject of Cuba inscribed on the NSC agenda for next Monday in 
order to be able to arrive at a top-level decision on this very point. 
- He thought it essential that the policy of the U.S. should be completely 
understood by responsible officials, so that any overt Cuban act would 
be met with a previously-agreed-on respons·e. 
Mr. Merchant stated thai.:, apart from any attack on Guantanamo, 
he thought that some of the previous argumentation in today's meeting 
. was faulty, in that we could riot have it both ways. By this he meant 
that it is not logical to conclude that an indigenous uprising is impossible 
and yet that it is feasible for the U.S. to go in overtly and 11 clean up 
the mess. 11 He pointed out that if Castro 1 s support were such that an 
uprising was out of the question then an open invasion by the U.S .. would 
be met by a hostile population and we would be plunged into a situation 
lik_e Algeria.· 
.Turning to the immediate problem before the Group, Gen. Cabell 
outlined the general proposal to establish bases in the U.S., .with the 
:::-ea sons for coming to this conclusion. He cited specifically the 
possibility of U. N. investigation in Guatemala and th"e increased scope 
of the program, which has been brought about by the increased strength 
of the Castro regime. • All me_mbers of the Group expressed serious 
doubts as to whether such activity could be kept at all secure. Mr. 
Merchant said at one point, that although this does not represent a 
final conclusion on his part, he is inclined to think that the proposal 
embodies the worst aspect of both worlds; that is, the choice should 
rest between continuing our op_erati'.ons entirely on foreign soil or 
preparing to make the best possible case for overt intervention. 
Mr. Gray suggested that the decision could be put up to his 
associates at the same time Tibet is discussed. Mr. Merchant agreed 
that this is wb.ere it sbould end up, but asserted that he is not prepared 
to move in that direction until a survey has been made of the possibilities 
of keeping operations in the U.S. unrevealed. 
In this· connection Gen. Cabell mentioned the possibility of using 
a refugee organization - either an existing one or a contrived one - to 
backstop the operations. 
NW ·50_955 Docid.: 32423488 .Page 32 
2 
r'' ·~I'") 
~. ' '\ 
:.... - :.... _) 
~'\~1 ~J PH0:-1Eiff ~-'' 
L.: (.'... j THE WHiTt riG J~ _ ;;, , . 
