: - l \ 
l 
I 
,ias I 
,wn I 
,man I 
I 
\ 
-1 
I 
___ J 
: 
ORGANIZI~D C.:HI.N!E AND ILLICIT THAf,FIC IN NARCOTICS 523 
Senator Mas Km. Are you planning that 1 
Mr. Br:owx. Yes,sir. 
The CHAIIOL\N. Very well. Tliis chart mny be recei n::d as exhibit 
No. 45 and ,rn will direct it be printed in the record if it can be, as 
far as it can be. The title of it is "The l\fafia. Organization in tho 
Tampa, Fla., Area." 
(The document referred to was marked "Exhibit No. 45:, for refer­
Pllce and faces this page.) 
The CII,\IJ:::IL\X. \\' ould yon say the operations of this organized 
~roup are not confined just to the city limits of Tampa, but they are 
Ill the area? 
Mr. Bnowx. Dy all means; the entire area. 
The Cn.\IIDL\N. All right. This chart is now a part of the record 
and, if yon wish to comment about it, we will proceed with your state­
ment. 
Mr. Bnowx. The chart is keyed to show only the criminal, bnsiness, 
and familial interrelationships and activities of the persons named, 
although otltl~t· criteria ii;rured in our categorization of these persons. 
Of comse, this· chart ecurnot he considered as n, definiti,·e "table of 
orgirnizatio11'1 of the Tampa Mafia, because it is but a simplified repre­
sentation of an organization that is in a constant state of flux, and about 
which we know we still have many things to learn. 
However, I believe it is completely accurate in sho"·ing that Santo 
Traflicante is the boss of this criminal group. Indeed, it is to Santo 
Trnmcante that Tan:pa owes the dubious distinction of lrndng been 
represented at. the notorious crime convention at .,\.palachin, N.Y., 
in November 1D5i. 
The CIIAIIDL\N. I notice you designate or refer to this group as the 
::\fofia. 1Voulcl you say that it is t lie same group that has been referred 
to by the famous witness, ,Joe Valachi 1 
.l\fr. Bnowx. Yes.sir; it is. • • 
The CnAIIDIAN. lVhether he calls it Cos:i N ostra or the :Mafia makes 
no difference. This is the organized crime group to which you re­
ferred? 
::\fr. BnowN. That is correct, Senator; this is the group. 
Senator :MusKm. jfay I ask a question there? 
Under this gronp, there is another group ,\·hich you describe as 
11onmember associates and employees. Is that intended to suggest 
rhat the people ,rho are so clrscribed know nothing about the identity 
of their employers and the organization of ,vhich they nm a part? 
i\Ir. BnowN. Senator, that is a part of the insulation of the group. 
They ham many employees, a!l(l as we go into the statement, to show 
how in this gambling operation the seller is non-Sicilian in most 
cases, and he reports to another member up the ladder, and so on up. 
Jlnny of thrse people arc nonmembers of the Mafia as it is. 
Senator MusKrn. Do they know they are engaged in criminal ac­
tirities ~ 
:.\fr; Bnow"N". Yes, sir. 
Senator l\IusKrE. They know they are a part o,f a criminal orga-
nization? 
Ur. Bnowx. Yes, sir. 
Senator l\IusKIE. But they are not members t 
Mr. DnowN. That is correct. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 663 
