( 
(· 
( 
SECTION 107 SECURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFif TIAL SOURCES. 
. - • • 
1070 
O. DISCON'TDWED INFOR11A.NTS 
1. When services of informant are discontinued, mark name card "cancelled. 11 
Destroy symbol card. Never destroy name card. 
2. Refile name card in numerical order by symbol number in symbol number 
index. If discontinued informant, potential informant, or confidential 
source to whom symbol number was once assigned later is reactivated, 
remove name card from symbol number index, mark it reacti,r.ated with ap­
propriate date, note type of information he will no1·r be furnishing, and 
refile it alphabetically in name card section of index. . 
3. When potential informant or confidential source is dis continued and 
permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy alphabetical index card. 
4. Advise Bureau of date when potential informant or informant is discontinued 
and reason therefor. Advise Bureau as to whether or not informant is 
willing to testify in open court or before administrative hearing boards. 
Identity of all cases of security of Government employees type in -,..,hich 
informant has furnished information must be ascertained and Bureau advised 
in compliance with section 19, volume II, of this manual .. 
5. Review informant's file to determine if correspondence between· Bureau and· 
field relating to Department's interest in using informant as witness is 
contained therein. In those cases in which Department has indicated de­
sire to consider informant vrhen he becomes available,- advise Bureau in 
each such substantive case, except when it is obvious statute of' limi ta­
tions has run or case has been adjudicated. This exception does not apply 
to security of Government employees cases. When above action is completed, 
advise Bureau. 
6. Statement shall also be made to effect that measures to control informants, 
set out in item 7, belov,, have been consi<Iered and recom.rnenda.tions shall 
be made when it appears such a.re warranted. 
7. When services of informant are discontinued, maintain close contact with 
him so that informant will look to Bureau for counsel prio·r to taking any 
action against Bureau's best i~terests. Determine whether he has plans 
for writing book, magazine or newspaper article, or otherwise publicizing 
his activity. If so, impress· him with desirability of coming to Bureau 
for assistance and guidance. If informant insists on engaging in such· 
activities, Bureau will consider placing him in contact v,ith reliable 
publisher, but it must be made clear to informant that Bureau will nnt 
sponnor or endorse any book or publication which he elects to write. 
8. All payments to discontinued informants and confidential sources·must be 
made on strict c.o.d. basis. Obtain Bureau authority before making such 
payments. Submit complete details as to information furnished by dis­
continued informant or source in past and what is to be expected of 
informant or source in future. 
·g·. Once informant is exposed in any manner ,•thats oe,,,-er, do not·. carry him as 
a concealed source in reports or memorana.a. ·His true name is to be set 
forth, together with descriptive data. 
10. When office receives information concerning, or obtains information from, 
an ex-informant, copies of memoranda prepared must be furnished to office 
which originally handled informant so that file will be as complete as 
uossible. 
11. \,Then informant has been discontinued for cause, such as unreliability, 
do not contact him in future for information. If he furnishes information 
it should bo accepted, but in setting out information in reports or com­
munications use indiYidual's true name, together with appropriate descrip­
tion of his reliability, 
[ 12. Remove flash notice[per item F, 6, e of this section.) 
13. .Avoid repeated use of discontinued informant as witness at security trials 
and. hearings. Make a.11-out effort to de·,;elop witnesses who can furnish 
same testimony. Advise Bureau of any indication by Government attorneys 
that informant-witness who has previously testified will be ·called upon 
for testimony at subsequent trial or hearing anc1 furnish co.mments concerning 
possibility of supplanting tostimony of individual involved. Submit una.er 
appropriate case character. 
19 
9-30-70 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1176 
i 
' j 
i 
! 
I 
i l 
! 
i ! i ! 
! 
-l 
i 
i 
