_.,, • ... ·, -- . t -· -~ , , ...... ,. 
•. 
l1~emorandum to t1r. Sullivan . .. ·. . .. . . .·. 
Re: TECH.NICAL SURVEILLJli"\JCE. COV1'.ill~AGE <-;: _, .. 
OF DIPLOMATIC ESTAELISHJ;lEN'fS 
65-63113 
countries involved in political or m·ili tary situations of particular interest to U.S. intelligence community.and/or to the FBI. The 
technique must necessarily be considered an exploratory step since 
in some instances in the past our experience has s11own the results 
-are negligible and do not justify continuance while in other • 
instance the coverage may he worthwhile for a long time. 
We feel there are a nw-nber of cotu1tries regarding which 
t coverage should he attempted to assess the potential :value. While the 
I Attorney General. spoke in terms of "embassies",we feel simultaneous 
J cover<:lge is desirable,· ~f possible 1 ."of the United Na~ions }?elegations • .ialso 1n order to determine from which spot the best 1ntell1gence 
ij emanates,! • 
With regard to African countries ,ve suggest coverage at 
tthis time of four additional countries: (1) Republic of the Congo 
f (Leopoldville); (~) Gui1:iea; (3). Mali and_ (4 ~ Morocco. TI1e Congo. is a gkeytrouble spot 1n Africa .. Guinea and Mali lean toward the Soviet 
·t bloc and are targets of Soviet-bloc subversion. 'There have been 
• a increasing S9viet inroads ~n I(orocco and Moroccan territorial claims tmay pose serious problems 1n 1962. . • 
. . . • ·with re7ard to Latin-American countries we propose coverage 
of five additional cou.i,tries: ( 1) Brazil; (2) Argentina; (3) Eexico; 
(4) Venezuela and (5) Panai11a. It is felt Brazil, Argentina and i1exico 
represent excellent potential for acquisition of intelligence in view 
of their influential positions. Brazil itself is politically wistable. 
Venezuela and Panama are traditional trouble spots in Latin America. 
• 1\li th regard to Asian and Southeast Asian cow1tries we propose coverage of six countries; (1) Indonesia; (2) Laos; (3) South Vietnam; (4) TI1ailand; (5) India and (6) Japan. Indonesia is a particular 
trouble spot at this time. Laos, South Vietnam and TI1ailand are all feeling the increased pressures of the Sino-Soviet bloc. India in the 
past has been the acknowledged leader of the neutralist nations. Japan, 
while oriented toward the West, has been beset by the problems of 
internal coum1unism. • . • 
_ Regarding Western Europe we propose coverage of Portugal; a country beset by the problems posed by Angola, its colony in Africa, 
