' . 
t. 
( 
I 
,: 
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S TESTTh'10NY 
HOUSE JUDICIARY SUBCOMMITTEE 
MARCH 15, 1967 
. The "Washington Post" reported on March 16, 1967, that 
Attorney General Clark opened hearings before a House Judiciary sub-
• committee on March 15th relative to the Administration's request for 
50 million dollars next year and 300 million dollars the following year 
to assist state and local governments in modernizing their law enforce­
ment and corrective systemso Clark said that a successful war on 
crime depends not on making it easier for police to seek confessions 
but on improving their training and methodso • 
The Attorney General also sai~ he had seen no evidence 
that court decisions limiting admission of confessions had hampered 
efficient la\v enforcemento Clark is reported to have opposed action 
reversing court orders that suspects be told of their rights and be 
offered counsel before being questioned. 
Attorney General Clark said that since 1948 the FBI has 
followed generally the same interrogation procedures which the courts 
have now ordered the states to followo The FBI has maintained a very 
high average of convictions, Slowing "what excellence in training and 
standards can do," Clark saido 
Clark also said he hoped Congress would not go "too far 
on too little" until more evidence is in on the effect of the Supreme 
Court's decisionso 
COMMENT 
The Attorney General failed to consid'er the fact that FBI 
investigations are not normal!y hot pursuit, on-the-street situationso 
When the FBI interrogates a suspect or subject, usually considerable 
investigation has already been conducted and corroborative facts have 
been developed which greatly assist the course of the interrogation. 
On the contrary, police are frequently faced with fast-moving, 
developing situations on the street where there is no opportunity for 
the orderly accumulation of facts to supplement interrogation. • 
,, .. 
{ ' : 
\ ... ) -·~ 
.. 
- -·--· - ------ ------- ·--
' ., . , 
; ' , ... , ... ', -, 
... . ·~·~ 
( '• . . 
