87D 
[ 
s S~CURITY INVESTIG.AT: s 
• should be apparent that all conceivable situations cannot be antici­
pated. jor that reason, the data below should be considered as pertain­
ing ;;o re pres enta ti ve situations which occur frequently enough. to 
warrarit specific treat:nent. The basic rule to follow is, of cou·rse, 
that security. information must be furnished promp~ly to interested 
agencies in the executive bra:1ch of the Government and that the term 
"interested agency" must be interpreted in the ligh 1t of reason ana 
common sense. Any unusual situations should be brought to the attention 
of the Bureau promptly for co!lsidera tion and dispos i tiono 
Considerations affecting t~e national defense in Alaska, Hawaii, and 
Puerto Rico necessitate that the broadest possible c0nstruction be 
given to the existing requirements of dissemination to the intelligence 
services located in those areaso The Anchorage, Honolulu, and San Juan 
ofrices should adhere to such policy and effect such dissemination as to 
disyharge fully our responsibilities as laid down in Bureau instructions, 
tog~ther with practices Nhich have bee!l dictated by circumstances 
wi·thin those particular officese· ••• ,:. •• ·'·_., •. • .. -
The material set out belo~, must be read in conjunction with the Manual 
of Rules and Regulations,(part II,] section 5, which discusses the Bureau's 
over-all responsibil~ties in dissemination, together with existing 
policies, qualifications, and exceptions. . 
a. Data developed concerning subjects of s·ecurity investigations and 
- -~--~----- >· . · .. ·other persons· coming within inves:tigative juris.diction of the • . -. ·:_:- ::· ·: Burea~- • - ·-----·--·· •••• ····:r-_-· • • •• ••• • ····:· • • ••• • 
[ 
NW 38321 
• ·(1} Aliens and n~t~ralized 6itizens 
Information concerning aliens and naturalized citizens which 
might have a bearing on the deport~tiQn or denaturalizati~n 
of such individuals should in all instances be forwarded 
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Refer to 
the Manual of Rules ar.d Regulations,[part II,)section 5. If 
any doubt exists, the matter should in all instances be resolved 
in favor of disse~ination. 
(?) Employees of or persons having regular access to key facilities 
or employees of plants having contracts with the military 
services 
. ( 3) 
(4). 
(5) 
( 6) 
Dissemination in these cases is treated specifically in section 
87D 1c (4) of this manuale 
Employees of public utilities (including state and municipal 
facilities) which are not on the key facilities list or otherwise 
falling into the category defined in (2) above, and facilities 
which are or may become engaged in the manufacture of materials 
vital to the national defense 
Dissemination should be made locally to G-2 and, in addition, to 
other intelligence services if their interest is apparent in 
individual cases or in specific facilities., 
Individuals on inactive duty but who are members of or hold 
commissions in the reserve branches or Hational Guard 
Dissemination should be made locally to the appropriate military 
intelligence service., Dissemination to headquarters of the 
appropriate services will he made at SOG., 
Ssamen and subjects employed in the maritime industry, including 
longshoremen and other water-front employees • 
Dissemination should be made to the Coast Guard on a local lov.el 
and, ~,hen circumstances dictate,- to othar intelligence agencies, 
including ONI, which have an interest in the data reported. 
Appropriate dissemination on a headquarters level will be made 
a:I; SOG. 
Employees of the Federal Government within the purview of 
Executive Order 10450 
No dissemination of the reports 
cases may be made in the field. 
855 
80 
4-1()-59 
in security of· Government employees 
If, however, subject is employed 
