14-00000 
JFK Declaration of FREDRICK C. WICKHAM, JR. 
I, Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr. declare and say as follows: 
1. (U) . I am the JFK Focal point Officer ("FPO") for 
the Directoiate of Operations ("DO") of the United States 
Central Intelligence Agency ("CIA"). I have held technical 
positions associated with the design and implementation of 
computer systems, information management positions including 
the DO IMO, and currently manage the DO information review 
and release programs. I have been with the CIA since 1967 
and have been associated with the JFK records review 
activity since 1992 and the JFK FPO since 1995. 
2. (U) I have obtained the information contained in 
this declaration based upon my personal knowledge and 
experience, as well as conversations with the DO Information 
Review Officer, the DO Information Management Officer and 
individuals taking action on the specific requests. 
3. (U) DO records were predominately paper with a 
hard copy card index in the 1960's and an electronic index 
in the 1970's. The indices were based upon names that meet 
specific collection requirements or projects that were 
undertaken in the performance of our mission. Searches that 
exceeded the capability of the indices required manual paper 
file searches. I am aware that the DO searched the central 
record system, which includes retired records, and hand 
·searched the convenience files and specialized files located 
within various offices. Specialized collections are often 
extremely sensitive and therefore only reside within the 
components. During our newer searches we have not found any 
significant documents in the DO files dated 1978 or prior 
that appear to have been missed by the searches through 
1978. We did locate one set of tapes which we know was made 
available to the Warren Commission but was not included in 
the HSCA sequestered collection .. We also found nne file 
that was only partially included in the HSCA sequestered 
collection. 
CL BY 0524343 
REASON 1. SC 
DECL Xl , 
ORV MIS 5-82 
