13-0oooo·· -----·-·· ---
,• 
."APR 15 '97 04:59PM USGOVERNMENT P.6/14 
SECRET 
Subject: CIA Employees 
certain individuals of intel-ligence interest, to prevent 
embarrassment to host foreign governments, and to permit 
plausible denial of CIA's presence and activities in foreign 
countries. • 
14. (U) The ability to maintain one•s cover is 
crucial to gathering intelligence. In either a "hostile• or 
"friendly• country, should·the·1ocal service become aware of 
who the CIA employees are, it would increase surveillance 
and make unilateral operations difficult if not impossible. 
In some countries, the local government tolerates the CIA 
presence and agrees to work with Ult as long a~ the local 
population is not aware of the circumstances. Once it 
becomes known among the locals that certain us Government 
officials are actually CIA, pressure may be placed on the 
government to expel those Americans, disrupting liaison and 
diplomatic relationships. More importantly, covert ' 
employees and their families would face increased risk to 
their personal safety. Bven in "friendly" countries, our 
employees could face some personal risks as.well as risks to 
ongoing operations from extremists who may be living among 
an otherwise benign local population. In any of these 
cases, should a covert employee's cover be publicly 
compromised, that employee may have to be recalled from the 
field; and it could be dif£icult to place him elsewhere in 
an operationally and physically secure location. Thus, 
maintaining cover is important to a case officer's 
effectiveness and to the continuation of a career with CIA. 
15. (S) Maintaining the confidentiality of cover is 
also·~mportant to .cover providers. The Review Board will 
recall from prior briefings by the Agency that covert _CIA 
employees, both in the Unite_d States and overseas, can work 
under •official" g., <itate"'11&- a;~tl cover or "non­
official" (e.g. , nvate co an --cov<:fr. Disclosure of'. a 
covert employee wold not only e official acknowledgment of 
the specific cover mechanism employed by CIA but would also 
negatively affect the governmental or business mission-of 
the cover provider, especially those who provide non­
official cover. Acknowledgment of an employee who had been 
under non-official cover in a host country and possibly in 
other count:ries could have a negative impact on the 
~er' s busines'Ej} interests and activities. It would also 
cast suspicion on -that {_provider's legitimat] employees and 
their families. Further, exposure of cover providers could 
affect the recruitment and cooperation of such providers by 
the Agency and Intelligence Community. 
16. (S) 
the Collection 
considerations 
Although the majority of names that appear in 
are retired CIA employees, the operational 
in revealing their affiliation ~1th CIA are 
5 
SECRET 
