-
FBI never at any time had Oswald as an agent, as an informant, or in any 
other way. 
Mr. HoovER. That is correct. I couldn't make it more emphatic. 
Representative FORD. And Mr. Belmont testified to· the same last week when 
he was before· us. 
Mr. HooVER. Yes, sir. 
Representative FORD. Both you and he would be fully familiar with all of 
the records of the FBI in this regard? 
Mr. Hoo,·ER. We would, and we would not only be fully familiar· with it 
because while Mr. Belmont is in charge of the Investigative Branch of ~e 
Bureau-we have two assistants to the Director, one in charge of administrative 
work and the other in charge of investigative work-we have also checked the 
administrative records where vouchers or payments would have been made and 
there is no indication that any money was ever paid to Oswald. We have 
obtained, and they are on file with the Commission, the affidavits of the agents, 
who at various times were in contact with Oswald, to the effect that he was not 
an informant; that they had never paid him anythipg; that he was being 
questioned as to possible recruitment by the Soviet intelligence ; so there was 
no evidence at any time indicating employment by the FBI. 
Representative FoRD. And you were not under any limitation or restriction 
from any other authority in this regard? 
Mr. HooVER. Absolutely not. I have the entire control of whether a m.an 
shall be an informant or shall not be an informant. ~hat comes under. my 
chain of command from the local office which has the matter at hand. They 
can't just put on an informant without our approval. The recommendation 
on security informants comes to the Bureau ; it goes through the Assistant 
Director of the Domestic Intelligence Division, and, in significant cases, goes 
to Mr. Belmont, and then to my desk for my specific approva,I. So I, or my 
seat-of-government staff, have to approve every one of those who are used as 
informants in all elasses of cases, not only in intelligence cases but in white­
slave cases, automobile thefts, and all of th'ese cases. 
Representative FoBD. There ls no limitation on what you can tell us a.bout 
this situation? • 
Mr. HOOVER. None whatsoever . 
.Representative FoBD. No limitation; no restrictions? 
Mr. HoovER. No restriction. So far as the record of vouchers in the Bureau . 
are concerned, they are open to the inspection of this Coinmission at any time 
going back as far as you may want to go. • • 
Senator Cooi>Ea. May I ask just one question there? I think you have an­
swered it, but in your examination of this aspect as to whether or not Oswald 
was an informer or employee or held any relationship to the FBI, you, yoqrself, 
have looked into all of. the means you have of determining that fact when you 
make the statement to us? 
Mr. HooVEB. I have personally looked into that for two reasons: Because the 
President asked me personally to take charge of this· investigation and to dir'ect 
it, and I knew that the report ultimately would be made to him. For that rea­
son I became famiUar with every step and every action that was taker.. Then 
when the allegation was made by somoone-I think it was the mother of Os­
wald first, if I _recall correctly-that he was employed by some Government 
agency, the CIA, or FBI, and maybe both, I insisted upon a check being made, 
and any record showing any indication of that being brought to me. When 
they could find none, I then asked for affidavits from the field force that had 
dealt with Oswald as to whether they had hired him or paid him anything or 
given him anything, and the affidavits are on file here that they had not. 
Senator CooPER. I think you have said there is no sum available to the FBI 
which would enable these men, these agents, to employ him out of any funds 
that are made availabte to them. 
Mr. HOOVER. Oh, no; it must be done by voucher, and those vouchers are ex­
amined by the General Accounting Office every year or so. We have no lump 
sum in the field offices for employment of informants as such which is not sup­
_ported by vouchers. 
I Senator COOPER. I have just about two questions, I may have to go in a few 
108 
