l07C-D 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6, 
7. 
8. 
SECTION 10-; .F.CURITY INFOIU1A.NTS .AND CONFI .IAL SOU:RC~S. -
Incuiries of discreet nature concerning individual's personal history 
(aite and place of birth, etc.}, patriotism, health, reliability, 
st~bility, integrity,' general reputation, present and past employments, 
and business connections. Investigation must definitely establish that 
individual can be used without danger of future embarrassment due 
to instability or unreliability. Securing background information from 
individual is not sufficient; his background must be establishe(.l by 
investiiation, including discreet inquiries among persons personally 
acquainted with him. 
Check of local credit and arrest records. Submit FD-165 to Identifica­
tion Division to obtain any record he may have and to place stop 
against fingerprints if on file. 
Review armed services record if applicable. 
Check draft status or status in armed forces reserve. . 
Check dom3stic status and, if any marital difficulties, obtain details. 
Persons being considered for use in espionage and foreign nationality 
cases may present special problems which limit scope of investigation. 
(See instructions re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, 
volume IV, of this manual.} However, whe_re practical, cover above items. 
Leads must be handled by auxiliary offices within 30 days. Investigation 
must be completed prior to any request to guide, direct, or designate in­
dividual as potential security informant. 
D. APPROVAL, INDOCTRINATION, AND DEVELOP:r1E!NT OF POTEN"TIAL INFORMA.HTS 
1. When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same 
numerical sequence set out in subsection C., and request authority to des­
ignate individual as Bureau-approved potential security informant and to 
proceed with development. Do not submit on UACB basis. Include physical 
description. 
[ [a. If the individual is a student, include' separate ·paragraph clearly 
[ setting forth the number of racial and/or security informants, the 
[ number of potential racial and/or potential security informants, and 
[ the number of panel sources currently being operated at the particular 
[ college or university to which t·he request pertains. J 
2. After designation as Bureau-approved potential security informant, fol­
lowing matters should be made clear to him: 
a. His assistance is strictly voluntary and he is to understand there is 
no coercion or intimidation involved. 
b. He is not and cannot consider himself employee or "undercover Agent" 
of FBI. Seriousness of violating impersonation statutes m~st be 
impressed upon him. 
c. His cooperation must be strictly confidential at all times and if 
he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so 
advise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informant 
that his relationship must remain on confidential basis and if he 
violates confidence he will be of no value and by so doing B"4reau' s 
investigative activity may be jeopardized. If he has special 
problem which would require revealing his assistance to his wife or 
other pertinent individual, this should be ascertained and appropriate 
recommendation made to Bureau. 
d. If potential informant is connected in any manner with labor union, 
inform him that Bureau is not interestad in employer-employee relation­
ships as such and is only concerned with obtaining informs.ti on on 
infiltration of unions by subversive elements. 
e. If potential informant is student, teacher, or has any similar 
relations with school, college, or university, in initial interview 
and subsequent handling, follow current instructions concerning in-
vestigations on campuses. • • 
3. Do :not interview female potential informants in their homes -or apartments 
unless necessary and any such interviews should be conducted by two 
Agents after specific approval of superior in field office responsible 
for development of informants. This instruction is not applicable where 
active investigation has established that potential informant is of good 
character, there is no indication of affiliation with subversive groups, 
and there will be no embarrassment to Bureau. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1125 
4 
5-13-71 
\ 
' 
( 
I 
\. 
i i 
"i 
! 
I i 
' ' I ; 
I 
I • I 
1 
