... 
Volume XII - Manuil Ray 
Page 2 
SECRET Betsy palmer 
6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 31 Jan 64 - Article in Miami Herlad about 
the discovery of arms cache in Puerto Rico confirms accuracy of .t..rntaup/2 
reporting that Ray involved in robbery U.S. Military installation and that 
Governor Marin is misleading FBI investigation. WAVE believes the C-3 
explosive found in cache was provided Ray by WAVE as directed by Hdqtrs, 
but WAVE did not provide any weapons. WAVE will tell loaal FBI that they 
know nothing regarding background of cache discoveriJ and assume Hdqtrs will 
coordinate case at Wash.D.C. level with FBI. • 
7. Intelligence Information Cable, dated 4 Feb. 1964 • reliable source 
says RAY expected in Caracas, Venezuela middle of February 1964 to establish 
a guerrilla training base for JURE in venezuela. Will be a regional center 
used by JHRE members in Venezuela and Panama. (Likely that if Ray succeeds 
in setting up camp, it will be with tacit consent of Betancourt government. 
Field Conm1ent). Ray claims he will be inside Cuba by 20 May 1964. 
8. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 9 Feb 1964 states JOSE MARIA PUENTE 
BLANCO, Panamanian/Cuban, DOB 17 July 1930, Havana, Cuba, ll:eft Panama City 
for Caracas on 8 Feb. He is possible Castro agent and Panama City would 
appreciate information re his activities in Caracas arii/or subsequent travel. 
9, Memo for the Record, dtd 12 Feb 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez 
Subject: Meeting with PMBANG/1 
ELC, according to Ray, was now disolved and became a part of JURE on 17 Jan. 
1964. This brings to JURE the best former rebel anny officers in exile an~ 
should give JURE a military background and support second to none in the 
exile community. 
Conm1ents: AffrAUP/2 reports have indicated Cisneros activities and statements 
are directed against the CIA, Rodriguez discusses PJntaup/2's reporting with 
Tony Sforza and Warren Frank. If Cisneros is in fact directing a program 
of denigration against the CIA, suggest agency follow the activities of 
Dionisio Suarez Esquival, who reportedly has been selected to carry out such 
a program i~ various Latin American univerities. 
10. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 22 Feb. 1964. The FUENT:2 3LANCO 
brothers haYe been under some suspicion since their arrival in RACY following 
their release from Cuban prison as result of intervention of Thelma King. 
Part of suspicion is a result of activities of their brother, Jorge, still 
in CUba. I 
SECRET 
