14-00000 
professional opinion is that most likely such tapes were 
never returned to Headquarters for retention. It was normal 
practice to recycle audio tapes after they had been listened 
to by transcribers and their transcripts made. 
Messages between field stations and headquarters used 
operational jargon and shortened sentence structures that 
can sometimes allow for misinterpretations. Thus, possible 
confusion was created when references to what was being sent 
to headquarters referred to "tapes" but really intend 
"information" from tapes. 
In our search efforts we did locate approximately 185 
audio surveillance tapes of the Cuban and Soviet embassies 
in Mexico City ·that were recorded during the immediate time 
following the assassination (22 November 1963 to January 
1964). The fact that these tapes were retained and returned 
to Headquarters could account for the fact that some people 
recall that some tapes existed which were sent to 
Headquarters. 
Based upon the search efforts that were undertaken and 
the opinions of operational experts consulted, CIA has 
concluded that the tapes in question do not exist and were 
almost certainly recycled in the normal course of business 
before their potent'ial value was identified. 
James J. Angleton (Chief, ~ounterintelligence Staff, 1954-
1974) 
As noted in a 24 August 1998 memo to the Board, the 
files of Mr. Angleton were incorporated within the files of 
the CI Staff and the Directorate of Operations. Three 
memoranda, dated 23 November 1976, 5 August 1977, and 29 
November 1979, detail the review and incorporation into 
the DO Central Records System of the Angleton files as well 
as all the files found in CI Staff following Mr. Angleton's 
departure. As a result of this review·and incorporation of 
files, there is no identifiable collection of Angleton 
files. The three memoranda mentioned above have been 
included in the Agency's JFK collection for processing and 
release to NARA. 
John McCone (Director of Central Intelligence, 1961-1965) 
Within the McCone papers are several file folders with 
notations that indicate documents are missing. However, 
each folder has an index of the documents that were 
originally within it. Of all the missing documents only two 
refer to the Kennedy assassination. One document is 
described as "Date of Meeting - 26 Nov; Participants - DCI & 
2 
