13-00000 
SECRET 
BL: Sam, another kind of key point in the IG report is that 
the DO's Chief of Operations - Dick Helms, I guess -
was not involved in the Bay of Pigs planning. 
SH: That's right. 
BL: The report, rather pointedly, complains that Helms 
should have taken the opportunity to become involved, 
but that, on at least one, perhaps more than one 
occasion, he did not. He seemed to prefer not being 
involved. Is this a lesson that you all took to heart 
with Mongoose, and was that criticism of Helms fair? 
Was it accurate? 
SH: I think it was accurate from what I know, being 
somebody on the sidelines during the operation, since I 
was enjoying life in Tokyo at the time. When it all 
came through and Jake was knocking his ass off here, I 
know ... But yes, I think Dick probably did the right 
thing, for a very simple reason. Somebody had to take 
care of the rest of the world, from a command point of 
view. If Bissell was spending his time on the Bay of 
Pigs, plus the U-2, plus SR-71, plus Corona, there 
isn't much time left for Bissell to worry about the 
rest of the world. Secondly, Helms knew his troops, 
the personnel more or less, in the Clandestine Service. 
·He knew the good ones from the bad ones or the mediocre 
ones. That's one thing that I fault him on, in that he 
knew that the Division Chiefs' protective association, 
and the Staff Chiefs' protective association, were 
sending off to the Bay of Pigs operation, which they 
all knew about, obviously, but they were sending off 
their second-best, their has-beens, the guys who had 
stacked arms, and just kind of washing their hands of 
the whole thing. That.'s one thing, which is not in the 
report itself, but that's one thing that I knew, as 
just a case officer and having my own ears and fingers 
out in the wind. When we started on Mongoose, that's 
one thing I knew - at least I wasn't going to be 
involved in - is letting the Division Chiefs and the 
Staff Chiefs palm off on us all the cast-offs. I went 
to Des Fitzgerald, whom I knew very well, because I had 
been his Executive Officer, and I said to Des "You and 
the other Division and Staff Chiefs ought to be ashamed 
of yourselves in what you did." I said "I don't know 
the troops in the other Divisions and Staffs, but I do 
know something about the Far East Division Staffers, 
and you did the wrong thing. You didn't send the best 
troops you had. And I'm not saying you had to give 
them all your best troops," because there's another big 
world out there in addition to Cuba, there's still the 
7 
SECRET 
