1l.ooooo 1 • 
F-'1~-3i~ 
l:; .. I( 
..... , ..... ·., 
" JAMES H. LESAR 
ATTORNEY AT LAW 
1231 FOURTH STREET, S. W. 
WASHING,:ON, D. C. 20024 
·-
TELEPHONE (202) 484,6023 
December 3, 1976 
Mr. Gene .F. Wilson 
I.n·formation and Privacy Coordinator 
·central Intelligence Agency 
Washington, D. C. 20505 
• Dear Mr. Wilson: 
In response to your letter of November 30, 1976, Mr. Harold 
.Weisberg has authorized me to state his willingess to pay search 
and copying charges up to the amount of $1,000 if such charges are 
required by his Freedom of Information Act request for records 
pertaining to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and his assassination. 
Because you require a down payment of half the anticipated charges, 
I enclose a check for $500.00; 
This payment of $500.00 and any subsequent payments made in 
connection with this request are tendered with the express 
tion tliat Mr. Weisberg does not waive his right to recover 
C.I.A. regulations provide: 
Records shall be furnished without charge 
or at a reduced rate whenever the Coordina­
tor determines that waiver or reduction of 
the charge is in the public interest because 
furnishing the information can be considered 
as primarily benefiting the general public~ 
The Coordinator also may waive or reduce the 
charge whenever he determines that the inte-
rest of the government would be served there-
by. 32 C.F.R. §1900.25(a). 
In accordance with.this regu:tratibn, I call upon you to 
res:Q:'va-
the1m. 
cP 
--1_. 
1--' 
--0 
:;;:: .., 
-..1 
cf> 
determine that it is in the public and governmental interest·to 
waive search and copying charges incurred in connection with Mr. 
Weisberg's request. Enclosed herein is a copy of a letter to Deputy 
Attorney General Harold R. Tyler, ~r. which makes a similar request 
of the Department of Justice. The reasons expressed in that letter 
for granting a waiver are incorporated in my request that you grant 
a·waiver. 
Should you require it, I will provide you with affidavits by 
myself, Mr. Weisberg, and· others in support of this request for a 
waiver of the search and copying charges for these records. If.you 
do wish supporting affidavitst I would appreciate it if you would 
i 
