13-00000 
__ l;c..cO-'-/U!:l/!:17 lHU .l:>: UU tAA ..::u..:: I .i:4 U4:H 
MEMORANDUM 
October 9, 1997 
CIA HAS HO OBJE:CTION TO 
DECLASSIFICATION ANO/OR 
REI FABE OF THIS OOCUIIENT 
To: 
cc: 
From: 
Subject: 
Jeremy Gunn 
Executive Director 
TomSamoluk 
Deputy Director 
Michelle Combs~ 
Files on Yuriy lvanovich Nosenko in the CIA Sequestered Collection 
Microfilm. Containing Information of No Believed Relevance to the 
Assassination of President John F. Kennedy 
The information on Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko contained in the CIA Sequestered 
Collection microfilm consists of approximately 3600 pages of interviews, transcripts, 
memos, and reports. Of the total, approximately 1200 pages have been released. to the 
public as open in full or with redactions. Of the 1200 released pages, roughly 800 
contain information directly relevant to Lee Harvey Oswald and the assassination of 
President John F. Kennedy. Although all of these 800 pages have been released in 
redacted form, we have asked the Agency to re-review them under the standards of the 
JFK Act before we submit them to the Board. 
After my review of the Nosenko records and our discussion of the issues, it is my 
judgment that the remaining approximately 2400 pages are unrelated to the 
assassination of President Kennedy and should be processed as ''NBR" These NBR 
records, which are described on the attached list, consist of such items as general family 
and professional contact information, Soviet inte11i.gence methodoJogy, personalities, 
and specific operations, and Soviet Navy information dating to Nosenko's early career 
in Soviet Naval Intelligence. Much of the information consists of various attempts by 
the Agency in the 1960's to establish Nosenko's bona fides. The October 1968 Solie 
Report, which has been released in redacted form and will be re-reviewed under the 
JFK Act, establishes Nosenko's bona fides. The conclusions of the Solie report were 
reaffirmed in a 1976 report by John Hart. A brief summary of the conclusions of the 
Hart Report will also be processed for release. 
The approximately 2400 pages of proposed Nosenko NBR records have been reviewed 
carefully to confirm that they contain no material helpful to a deeper understanding of 
the assassination. During the review some additional material, not previously released, 
which may add to an w1derstanding of the Nosenko story, was marked relevant and. 
identified for processing and review. 
ie;J UU4 
