13-00000. 
.APR 15 '97 04: 59PM USGOVERNMENT 
SRCRET 
Subject: CIA Employees 
certain individuals of intelligence interest, to prevent 
embarrassment to host foreign governments, and to permit 
plausible denial of CIA's presence and activities in foreign 
countries. 
14. (U) The ability to maintain one's cover is 
crucial to gathering intelligence. In either a "hostileu or 
"friendly• country, should the local service become aware of 
who the CIA employees are, it would increase surveillance 
and make unilateral operations difficult if not impossible. 
In some countries, the local government tolerates the CIA 
presence and agrees to work with u~ as long a~ the local 
population is not .aware of the circumstances. Once it 
becomes known among the locals that certain us Government 
officials are actually CIA, pressure may be placed on the 
governmerit to expel those Americans, disrupting liaison and 
diplomatic relationships. More importantly, covert 
employees and their families would face increased risk to 
their personal safety. Even in "friendly" countries, our 
employe~s could face some personal risks as well as risks to 
ongoing operations from extremists who may be living among 
an otherwis~ benign local population. In any of these 
cases, should a covert employee's cover be publicly 
compromised, that employee may have to be recalled from the 
field; and it could be difficult to place him elsewhere in 
an operationally and physically secure location. Thus, 
maintaining cover is important to a case officer's 
effectiveness and to the continuation of a career with CIA. 
15. (S) Maintaining the confidentiality of cover is 
also ·important to .cover providers. The Review Board will 
recall from prior briefings by the Agency tha.t covert CIA 
employees, both in the United States and overseas, can work 
under "official" (e.g., State Department) cover or "non­
official" (e.g., private company) cover .. Disclosure ot a 
covert employee would not only be official acknowledgment of 
the specific cover mechanism employe~ by CIA but would also 
negatively affect the governmental or business mission·of 
the cover provider, especially those who provide non­
official cover. Acknowledgment of an employee who had been 
under non-official cover in a host country and possibly in 
other countries could have a negative impact on the 
provider's business interests and activities. _'It would also 
cast suspicion on that provider's legitimate employees and 
their families. Further, exposure of cover providers could 
affect the recruitment and cooperation of such providers by 
the Agency and Intelligence Community. 
16. (S) 
the Collection 
considerations 
Although the majority.of names that appear in 
are retired CIA employees, the operational 
in revealing their affiliation with CIA are 
5 
SECRET 
