13-00000 
- • , • --f-H( ~ '94 03: 17PM lJSGOVERtf'EtlT 
' ,··•. 
MEMORANDUM FOR: 
FROM: 
SUBJECT: 
REFERENCE: 
C/OIT~~) 
w. George.Jameson 
oac-90 ... sos11 19 March 1990 
Chief, Litigation Division, OGC 
Destruction of MHCBAOS and HTLINGUAL 
Project Fil~s 
Request for Authorization· to Retain or Destroy Questionable Records: 141C's for 
MHCHAOS and HTLlNGUAL Projects, from 
IMS/MPG/IRMB, dated 18 December 1989 
1. Th• referenced request seeks concurrence for the destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINOUAL tiles in accordance with 
routine records destruction scbe4ules approved by the National Archivist. Subject to the qualifications set forth below, the 
proposed destruction can proceed without legal objection. 
2. on several occasions o-ver • t:he. past 12 years, DO/IMS has 
proposed that the Agency identify and dest-roy MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL records in accordance with routine records 
destruction schedules. The ma~or reason not to ao so has been the existence of litigation that has necessitated retention of 
those records. With the settlement of the National Lawyers' Guild litigation, a major obstacle to routine records 
destruction appear■ to have been eliminated . .. 
3. That·caaa alona, howevH, does not govern the records 
~etention or.,.destruction of MHCHAOS or HTLINGOAL files. In 
addition, destruction may proceed only in accoraanca with the records disposition authorization provided by the Archivist on_ 
17 March 1978. (Job Ros. NCl-263-77-18 and NCl-263-78•1). The 
approval given by the Archivist is sub~ect to essentially the 
followin9 conditions: (1) files and documents that are the 
, objects of FOIA end Privacy Act requests, or those involved in any other litigation, are not to be destroyed; (2) files that 
document the initiation, implementation, and termination of the projects, and other files on U.S. persons of foreign. 1nte1119aace or counterintelli9ance valua which the Agency is 
required to maintain, are not to be destroy~d; (3) no disposal will occ~r prior to review and concurrence of the Senate Select 
Committee on Intelligence. • 
4. ln reviewing the materials you have provided, I have 
• been •~le to conclude that then SSCl Chairman, Birch Bayh, in several separate letters dated 6 April 1978, informed the DCI 
that the Committee had no objection to the implementation- of 
the records disposal lists approved by the Archivist. In my 
