I 
I 
SECRET 
Betsy palmer 
Manuel Ray - Volume x:rv 
Page 2 
B. Rogelio Cisneros calls Rodriguez (iitPif~i) on 20 May to advise 
him certain arms being manui'actured to JURE specifications 
in El Monte and being investigated by U.S. Treasury. Cisneros 
says JURE has invested $50, 000 in these ;.;eapons being manu­
factured bu Knuson (sic) Manui'acturing Co. 
c. Rodriguez ft~iln1iiitt/-.f/.1 tells Cisneros this is pretty sad 
situation that JURE must make use· of Costa Rican, Venezuelan 
and other L.A. connections or they were going to get "clobbered" 
in U.S. 
Ci.·. I-J:alpern and Rodrigaez advised Mr. Fi tzGerald of the above. Ee 
agreed agency could not assist ,Jl.JP.3 in this matter. On 20 
May, Mr. Bowdler of St. Dept. notified of the matter, and 
Deputy Chief, 
1
:m./sA advised. 
E. Joseph O'Neill of CGC called on 20 May and ini'ormed that JURE 
was involved but agency did not want Revenue called off its 
investigation because of the "autonomous" nature of our 
relationship Wit¥ JUT:IE. 
6. Cable to DIR from J1-,1~!Xv'2, dtd 22 May 1964. Sender states that the 
manner of Tad Szulc in an office 'Tisi t on May 21 and new coni'ident tone 
expressed by Cisneros conveyed feeling to cable sender that Ray has made it 
into CUba. 
7. Cable tp JM'ilAVE from DIR, dated 23 May 1964. Request ?.euteman advise 
AMCAi.1BON/l that he has checked 'W'i th hdqtrs and that Ray is not receiving 
CIA support. Reuteman should trace history of intimate relationship of 
AMCAPE/1 With Ray noting that since P;g:y of Pigs, AMC:APE/1 has been ser,,ing, 
in effect, as a public relations man and loggyist for Ray. Further explain 
to AMCARBON/1 that AMCAPE/1 must be credited With single-handedly placing 
entire Cuban nation on alert and causing withdrawal of masses of conscripted 
workers from cane fields merely by articles playing on theme of threat of 
ini'iltration of Ray and a few men. Tell AMCARBON/1 that CIA would not 
become party to Ray operation knowing close relationship with fJ.1CP~E/l, 
particularly since latter well known to be less than friendly to CIA. 
8. Intelligence Ini'ormation Cable, dtd 26 May 1964. Cisneros says that 
as of 23 May 1964, no contact has been established with Ray but Cisneros 
believes he has reached CUba. 
I 
9. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 28 May 1964 - Cisneros says Ray has 
not as yet been able to ini'iltrate CUba ar.d will make ~~~t~ii attempt night 
of 28 May 1964. Cisneros says vigilance by U.S. authorities over activities 
of JURE reps. in Florida making suwort of Ray's effort extremely difficult. 
SECRET 
