[ 
( 
~ • -J 
SECTION 107 •• JRITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFIDEN. SOURCES. 107D-F 
4. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters where contact is 
maintained on a periodic 02,sis dependant on circumstances, contact 
potential ip.formants personally at least once every two weeks. 
5. Advise Bureau of progress being made at least every six months. Sub­
mit letters (FD-401} concerning potential informants who are not boing 
paid on Bureau authorization en UACB basis; include surnrnary·of infor­
mation furnished during past six months and certifications regarding 
stability and indoctrination against disclosure. Follow form indicated 
under § 107L, item 3b, below, except those items concerning· payments. 
6. Post record of all contac·ts with potential informants. 
7. During contacts with potential informants, if it develops individual 
does not have necessary capabilities, discontinue efforts. 
a. Informants ~~y raise a question concerning their position if it becomes 
known publicly they are affiliated with subversive organization. In 
such case, he may be told that his cooperation is ma.tter of record in 
FBI and if some question arises concerning his loyalty we will consider 
making facts of his cooperation knovm ·to his employer or to responsible 
individuals. Before taking steps to advise anyone of potential infor­
mant I s or informan·t' s cooperation, obtain Bureau authority. 
9. From first interview with potential informant through development and 
until discontinued, use extreme caution ,at all times to be certain he is 
not a plant. 
10. When potential informant begins to furnish current information and' 
otherwise qualifies for designation as informant, advise Bureau. · 
This comrr~nication must be personally initialed by SAC or ASAG 
acting in his absence. Individual's background must be thoroughly 
reviewed at this time, keeping in mind possibility of using inform­
ant as witness. If individual has any weaknesses, set forth safe­
guards being fellowed to insure security and prevent embarrassment 
to Bureau. 
E. BUREAU POLICY 
1. Development of military personnel 
Do not develop informants among military personnel on m.i.litary reserva­
tions, establishments, etc., unless specifically approved by Bureau. 
2. Contacts by designated Agents 
Contacts with informant or potential informant should only be made by 
Agent or Agents specifically designated to contact him. 
3. Divulging information to informant 
No inforr:iation should be divulged to potential informa.nt or informant 
concerning any of Bureau's investigative activity other than that which 
is essential to his proper operation. 
4. Recording investigative activity . 
.All investigative activity must be made matter of record in field office 
files v~th all sources of inforwAtion being completely identified . .Agents 
must not have and use informants known only to i:ndividual .Agents personally. 
F • INTIOCTRINATIO}f, DIRECTION", .AND CONTROL OF INFORMUTTS 
l. Caution a.gainst divulging relai;ionship . 
During initial development and consistently thereafter, impress upon 
informant absolute necessity that he refrain from divulging his rela­
tionship with Bureau. These instructions must be properly phrased to 
prevent possibility of Bureau's being accused of attempting to impose 
censorship. 
2. De-veloping additional background 
During development of informant, additional data concerning his back­
ground should be continuously obtained from informant. Be alert fo:::­
data revealing he is mentally or emotionally unstable, or has some 
personal probl0m which wot1ld make him a risk. 
3. Indications of instability 
Immediately furnish details of any ind~cations of inatability to Bureau, 
with recommendations as to informant's continuance and comments as to 
any steps being taken to prevent embarrassment to Bureau~ 
L NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1 
5 
9-13-71 
I l 
- I 
I 
