13-00000 
NationaJ Bank in Miami, the bank through which Ber­
nard Barker channeled funds for the Watergate crime. 
The Teamsters Again 
A recent visitor to La Costa was Frank Fitzsim­
mons, a key to Nixon's new-found support in organ­
ized labor. Fitzsimmons is president of the Team­
sters Union. This summer he stopped in La Costa on 
his way to see Nixon at San Clemente. Fitzsimmons 
had just come from dinner in Detroit with a local 
Mafia figure and soon after his Detroit-La Costa-San 
Clemente excursion, Fitzsimmons announced his sup­
port for Nixon. One wonders whether the Teamster 
decision to stay on the Pay Board and to support 
Nixon is somehow related to what the Detroit Free 
Press has been hinting strongly as of late: that the 
administration has stopped prosecution of Frank's 
son Richard Fitzsimmons - the business partner of a 
Detroit mobster - ori charges of missing union funds, 
i~hange for Teamster support of the Republican 
Pre~dent. 
Whatever deals Nixon and Fitzsimmons did make, 
the Teamsters have a long working relationship with 
organized crime. Their marriage goes back over 
twenty years, where Jimmy Hoffa was introduced to 
the Detroit underworld by Paul Dorfman, in exchange 
for some multi-million dollar insurance business. 
Dorfman's son, Paul, has residences at both Sky 
Lakes and La Costa and was recently c,nvicted of 
taking kickbacks on a Teamster ·1oan. 
The Teamster tradition of labor racketeering and 
corruption made for a ready alliance with the mob. 
Early government investigations of the Teamsters, 
such as the Bobby Kennedy-led McClellan Permanent 
Committee on Investigations, centered on labor rac­
keteering. As Attorney General, Kennedy continued 
his pursuit of the Teamsters and their boss, Jimmy 
Hoffa. At one point Kennedy had twenty-nine grand 
juries simultaneously investigating Hoffa's activity 
- one of which led to a conviction for mail fraud 
and jury tampering. 
.In 1969, two Oakland Tribune reporters concluded 
a six-month investigation with the charge that "the 
$628,000,000 Teamsters Central States, Southeast and 
Southwest Pension Fund headquartered in Chicago, has 
become a bankroll for some of America's most sinis­
ter underground figure". 
Nowhere does the relationship between this fund 
and the mob surface more dramatically than in Las 
Vegas, where Teamster trustees have approved loans 
between $50 and $70,000,000, some shakily secured by 
second mortgages and subordinated notes. A high­
ranking Federal official has commented that "the 
Teamster fund is a sort of open .bank to people well­
connected in Las Vegas and well-connected to organ­
ized crime". 
It was Hoffa's desire "to have [his] own bank in 
every city" that brought on the Teamster takeover of 
the Miami National Bank. The Bank in turn is just 
one oC a long list of ventures, such as Ceasar's Pal­
ace, Sky Lakes, La Costa, Worldwide Realty, Interna­
tional Airport Hotel Systems, Truesdale Estates in 
•~ich Teamster money amounting to over $60,000,000 
figures prominently alongside the so~ial and busi­
ness partners of Richard~- ~ixon - a line of in­
vestments that leads from Nixon's three White Houses 
to a Federal clemency for Jimmy Hoffa and back to 
. organized crime. 
The current head of the Justice Department's 
Criminal Division saw enough evidence in 1967 to say 
that he "knew for a moral certainty [that] in t:ie 
upper echelons there is an amalgamation between the 
Cosa Nostra and the Teamsters Union". In 1471, when 
a Federal Grand Jury probing the activities of ~eyer 
Lansky questioned Jimmy lloffa, many wondered whether 
the links between the two giants were more direct 
than the numerous transactions between mutual 
friends. 
A few months after his testimony, Hoffa was 
granted clemency after serving less than five years 
of his thirteen-year sentence. The freeing of Hoffa 
and three co-defendents of the 1963 wire fraud pen­
sion case is the latest and most crucial event in 
Nixon's longstanding friendship, a friendship with 
some clear public benefits for both. Jack Anderson 
documents, for example, that as early as 1960, then 
Vice-President Nixon and Attorney General Rogers in­
tervened to halt an indictment against Hoffa in ex­
change for Hoffa's support in the 1960 election. 
ANICO - More of the Same in Texas 
In recent years the Teamster fund has been super­
seded by a giant Texas insurance company as a major 
source of finance for Las Vegas .casinos tied to the 
mob. The company is the American National Insurance 
Company (ANICO) of Galveston, Texas. ANICO is close 
to the heart and pocketbook of the two ranking Tex­
ans in the Nixon administration - former Treasury 
Secretary John Connally and former Assistant Attor­
ney General Will Wilson. 
As well as floating more than $40,000,000 to Las 
Vegas casinos and $13,000,000 to premier mob attor­
ney Morris Shanker, ANICO has made loans to two 
Florida companies close to Richard Nixon -
$1,750,000 in 1966 to the Mary Carter Paint Company, 
and $3,000,000 in 1970 to a subsidiary of Worldwide 
Realty. 
That.year a group of disenchanted stockholders 
filed a multi-million-dollar suit, charging A~ICO 
officials with having taken control of the company 
and using it as a private preserve as well as a 
so~rce of funds ~or the mob. 
The defendants in the suit hired Nixon's New York 
firm to handle the case. Connally's Houston law 
firm has also been used by ANICO. The First Na­
tional Bank of Houston, ofwhich Connally was a di­
rector and in which some of his law partners were 
officers, has provided·an interest-free account of 
more than $1,000,000 for ANICO. Connally was also 
a director of a savings association which was pur­
chased recently by ANICO. 
Will Wilson was "general" of the Justice Depart­
ment's "war" on crime from 1969-1971. He was head 
of the Criminal Division until October 1971, when 
his resignation was forced by disclosures tying him 
to the scandal-rocked financial empire of Texas 
wheeler-dealer Frank Sharp. Wi~son has been charged 
by dissident ANICO stockholders of helping to drag 
ANICO into t:1e twilight zones of finance with such 
deals as the 1963 absorption of a defaulted $450,000 
mortgage held by Sharp. Sharp's attorney and "finan­
cial advisor" on the deal was Will Wilson. , 
While Attorney General of Texas, Wilson sued the 
foundation which contro"lled ANICO to bring three new 
trustees onto the foundation's board of directors . 
Wilson has no visible ties to the new trustees, 
whose votes were instrumental in shaping the com­
pany's new financial course. But dissident stock­
holders have charged that the "negotiations" that 
