' . 
f 
r 
) [ 
[w. 
f 
SECTION 107. 
) 
[I.RNAL]SECURITY !~FORMANTS AND .IDENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
PART II 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
107W 
FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE (FCI) ASSETS 
This subsection deals with the development and operation of human assets, 
a field referred to as Human Intelligence or HUMINT. FCI assets are to 
be handled exclusively under this subsection, except for the administra­
tive instructions pertaining to informant indices, and monthly statistical 
letters., set out in Part I; such exceptions are noted herein. 
1. Definitions 
2. 
FCI assets fall into two categories: informative assets and operational 
assets. 
a. Informative assets (IA) 
Individuals in position to furnish continuing information relative 
to the location, overt activities, and personalities of the targets 
of FBI investigations, e.g., doorman, garage attendant, neighbor, 
tradesman, rental agent, building superintendent, fellow employee, 
socia:i contact, business contact, banker, ethnic community 
source, etc.; or individuals who have left or openly defected from 
a foreign country and can furnish information of intelligence 
value. An IA is not actively involved in an intelligence operation 
as such; should he become so involved he then could become an OA. 
b. Operational assets (OA) 
Individual actively involved in intelligence operations. 
This category includes but is not limited to the following 
individuals: 
Defector-in-place: A foreign official who overtly continues 
to work for his government and covertly provides information 
to us of intelligence value. A defector-in-place will in 
most instances be connected with a foreign government's 
intelligence service; 
Double agent: An OA who is cooperating with a foreign intel­
ligence service on our behalf and under our control; 
'Asset under development: Individuals selected for their 
apparent attractiveness to foreign intelligence services whom 
we attempt to put in contact with such services for operational 
exploitation, sometimes known as a "dangle operation"; .. or 
individuals already in contact with a foreign intelligence 
service who have an immediate potential for development into 
double agents. 
Adoption of the generic term OA does not preclude use of the 
specific terms, e.g., double agent, where applicable, in official 
communications. 
Objectives of OA 
a. Penetration 
Penetration of legal and illegal networks, identification of 
intelligence personnel and targets; collection of information 
regarding methods of operations; collection of positive intelligence. 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
25 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1197 I 
