----------------,,....,,,,=-r.1.,..1.---.::vTIT.1·, J,,..\.Ji • ,~YJ.!JVU!\.l.J.l .LJ.'Li.' vru:ia.1.•,J.·.:, 07L-tt 
\ 
( 
C 
( 
a. 
\ '· ·J 
Co.ct, full name -
Al£ aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
First date of contact by your office 
If first contact was prior to _September, 1944, names of all 
SAs, SAGs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made payments 
(5) Tabulation of all payments, broken down as to servicos and 
expenses. Although tabulations are not furnished to Depart­
ment, those prepared by your office will be reconciled with 
Bureau re cords. 
(6) Listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
advances 
(7
8
) Date of last contact by your office 
( ) Whether indivicl.ual has been contacted. by any other office 
b. Each individual and each iten of information must-be accounted for. 
If no contact itas made with particular individual,· Bureau mus'!; be 
so advised. 
c. Where informant has previously been used and tabulation of payments 
was prepared, informa.ti.on ·for items (5) through (8) need be given only 
from date of last trial in which individual .-,as used. 
d. Above information should be submitted separate and apart from cor­
respondence setting fort~ derogatory information, and should be ad­
dressed to ·attention of[Voucher-Statistical Section, Computer Systems 
Division.] Interdivisional correspondence should b~ addressed to 
Bureau with copies designated for interested officeso 
Receipt of ur,employment compensation 
a. At ti.mes informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
and. becorr.e eligible for unemployment compensation. Where un­
employment regulations require lis,ting of all sources of income as 
prerequisite for unemployment compensation and informants and/or 
sources who are being paid by Bureau fail to comply, situl'!,tion is 
potentially embarrassing. Bureau cannot be placed in position of 
condoning violation of state law on part of any informant or source. 
Field. office must determine from state unemployment compensation 
officials effect of unemployment compensation laws on paid informants 
and/or sources. Depending on local requirements, informants and 
sources must be alerted accordingly. 
b. When pa.id informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has knowledge 
of impend.ing unemployment, dis-cuss all facts with him and submit 
recommendations to Bureau on U.ACB basis . .At same time, weigh seriously 
possible need for informant to apply and accept unemployment compen­
sation to protect his security. Fellow members of subversive organi­
zation may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect him . 
to apply. Where state requires notification of Bureau payments· to in­
forma11i;s that would ne ce ssi tate disclosure of identity, discontinue 
Bureau payments during period oi. unemployment compensation bene_fi ts. 
N. ttON'THLY A~ill Q.U.ARTERLY LETTERS 
1. Submit monihly letter (FD-451, 451a) to Bureau by secure teletype system 
_(NITEL). Field di-visions east of the ttississippi must submit this infor­
mation by the 3rd of each month; f:i,eld di-visions west of the ttississippi 
must submit this information by the 7th of each month. ttonthly letter 
should include the following: • 
a. Number of security informants, potential security informants, con­
fidential sources, and J)':-nel sources at the beginning and en.d of each 
month also showing the number added and deleted during the month. 
b. Number of Agents assigned exclusively to informant and source 
de-velopment. • 
c. Money paid for services and expenses under SAC authority. 
d. Statistical accomplishments. 
e. Security informant accomplishments. 
17 
7-13-72 
W 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1169 
