• 
PART II 
--
SECTIQN .?• · PUB~IC).TIONS,,· PRESS.~ . .AND PUBLIC .CONT:A.CTS· 
d. Ea.oh insert should be filed with the btµl·etin i;o_ which it relates. ,_ ( 
No ind,e;x:ing. of, ind.i vidua.;I.. notices. contained therein is necessa.ryo 
4. Ea.oh office must submit to the Bureau annually at. least three suggestions 
for articles, idetitifying the suggested author, and briefly describing 
the nature of the suggested artiol e. ·The artiol:e should· not· be prepa.·red, 
submitted, or mentioned to ·t;he suggested. author .un·!;il the .Bureau directs 
that it be :obtained .• ,. , Suggestions may co.ver.·.any general or specific sub­
ject of •law enfor.cement int!3res-t, inc:l.uding the following: 
~. Better investigative or administrative-methods and tedhniques of 
any nature,· particularly. those us.ed or -developed·, by "FBI National 
11.c ad emy men • • ' . - . • 
b. Improved or unusual equipment being used 
o .. •• Complicated;' unusual, and· we"ll-handled':ca:ses which are iliustra.tive 
of law enforcement problems and ·e~c~llent police-work 
d~ Human interest items from local police work• , . 
I. 
t 
e. ·Police and firearms.- tra:i,ni:ng subjects • • • - .;1 
f O Crime prevention· articles from d epartment_s" which have taken aggressive. 
action to combat juvenile" delinquency·- •• 
go ·Transmit ·ali 'inat·erial·'t=o· t·he ·Bureau und-e-r ;the ·:ciauticm·i 
FBI Lav. E11forcement Bulletin • , .. • •• 
Research (Crime Records) 
C o SPEECHES. 
1. Bureau is to be notified of all speaking engagementso Speaking engage­
ments are to be handled by the S.ll.Cv If he cannot handle them., the ASA.C 
should. If neither can, an Agent previously approved as a speaker is 
to be designated and the Bureau advised UACB,. Changes in speaking engage-. 
ments must be communicated promptly to the Bureauo Three weeks prior to 
any radio or television speech, a manuscript of the speech must be. sub­
mitted for the Bureau's review and apuroval 0 In some d;her oases involv­
ing important speeches not on ra,dio o~ television,. the Bureau will 
specifically request such manuscriptso If speech is to be broadcast or 
televised~ prior Bureau approval of manuscript and commitment must be 
obtained. These regulationss as well as all other FBI administrative 
procedures, should not be the subject of comment to the public~ 
2. Copy of Bureau letter approving speaker should be placed in his field 
personnel file. 
3 0 Each office is to designate a supervisor to handle speech materialo 
To this supervisor must be routed law enforceme:.:i.t bulletins, FBI Uotes, 
interesting case material, magazines, research literature, and newspaper 
clippings containing information of value to police instructors and 
approved speakers. This material to be indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in the speech material files~ 
D. +NTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting case~ may be: 
, a. Requested by the .tiureau 
b. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
Co Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
Co Unusual and effective inves-t-iga.tive techniques 
da Novel investigations of human interest 
3 0 They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b. Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
o. Title incl~des names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d. Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
f. In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
2 
9-30-60 
' ' 
