... 
• • 
'SECRET 
\~ . 
SAMUEL AD.A.SON JAFFE 
-
-\ ~ 
\. In discussing Vik tor Louis, Jaffe stated he "never 
had any doubts that he (Louis) ·was with KGB. u In discussing 
Louis, Jaffe indicated that all important 0 exclusives" in Moscow i; 
pert?ined to security matters and not to 0 leaks 11 f:t;_om the Soviet c_ ~; 
Foreign Ministry concerning political matters; therefore, KGB • ' 
must· have been responsible for the 11exclusives-. n Jaffe indicated ;J 
that Louis was the recipient of many such 11exclusives. II Jaffe r! 
also indicated that· Louis appears to live far better than other ~l 
correspondents from foreign countries and is permitted to tj 
travel extensively abroad, including countries such as the 11 
United :States and Taiwan. Jaffe indicated that these factors ~ 
convince him that Louis is connected with KGBe 
1
1 
Jaffe concluded: 11That is what they (KGB) do., They set l. j 
this man up$ If you want information," then contact a man such l 
as Viktor Louis. ~ 
Jaffe 9s Future Plans 
Jaffe stated: 11I like to keep contact with these people 
(Soviet and Chinese nationals) because it will pay off in the J 
long run." Jaffe indicated he ~"'Cpects to attend the May Day 
celebration at the Soviet Embassy, Washington,D.C. He also indicated 
he was still actively trying to obtain an assignment as a newspaper 
correspondent in Mainland China but has done nothing more concerning 
his desire to obtain a similar assignment in Cuba. 
In discussing his desire to go to Mainland China, Jaffe 
indicated that he had interviewed Chou l¥h Lai in 1955 and was one 
of 18 foreign correspondents selected to visit China in 1956. In f 
the Fall of 1965 he went from Moscow to Belgrade, Yugoslavia, folu 
lowing his ouster from the Soviet Union, and convey$d to Chinese 
newsmen in Belgrade his desire to obtain a newspa .. per assignment ii 
Mainland Chinao I-Jhile in Hong Kong he made the same desire k.noi;m 
to Szeto Kung of the Chinese News Agencyo Finally, on April 28, 
1969 he indicated to a Chinese professor at McGill University in 
Canada his desire to obtain a newspaper assignment in China and the 
professor agreed to fo'l::'\vard a letter from Jaffe indicating 
SECRET 
NW 8832ti Docld:32989704 Page 2ti1 
fl 
