I 
In Reply, Please Ref er to 
File No. 
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
CONFIDENTIAL 
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
Washington, D0 C. 20535 
January 15, 1968 
DEMONSTHATION PROTESTING 
UNITED STATES POLICY IN. VIE'INAM 
WASHINGTON, Do Co 
J.i_WUARY 15 1 1968 
A c.onfidential source, who has furnished reliable 
information in the p~st, advised in December, 1967, that 
the Jeannette Rankin,f-Brigade (JRB) had been formed primatily 
by members of Women Strike for Peace, a pacifist organizationo 
Members of Women Strike for Peace had formed the organization 
. following a statement made by former Congresswoman Jeannette 
-j(·Ra~g of J.Iog;t~~ in which she stated fu at if 10, OOOAme1~ican~ 
nousewives were willing to be arrested, they could stop 
the war in Vietnam. According to the source, the JRB was 
formed as a "one shot organization" to sponsor a demonstration 
in Washington, D.C., when Congress reconvenes. in 196S-. 
The same source advised that January 15, 1968, 
had been established as the date of the above demonstration 
in view of the fact that Congress was reconvening on that 
date. Tne source stated that the headquarters of the JRB 
was locc:,l ted in l{e_w_ ,¥9rk City and that officials there and· 
in other large Un.1ted States citie~ including Los Angeles, 
San Francisco and Washington, D.C0 ~ were formulating the 
plans for a 11march on the United States Capitol" where 
the women would present to the United States Congress a 
petition demanding that the Congressmen end the war in 
Vietnam. The source stated that a small minority in the 
above organization were in favor of commiting acts of. civil 
disobedie~ce and being arrested. but the vast majority of 
the organization wanted a peaceful demonstration to again 
focus the Congressional attention upon the war in Vietnam. 
The same source advised in January, 1968, that 
representatives of the JRB met with officials of the United 
States capitol Police on sev~ral occasions and attempted 
to gain permission to assemble on the steps of the United 
States capitol and present a petition to Congressional 
CONFIDENTIAL 
GROUP I 
F.xclurled from nutomnti~ 
down~r:nlin:t und 
declussii:c:.lion • 
. .. ~ '1 ~ ,~,, ..... \"! 
r:: ':". ~ ~1.lo'.., 11all• f,;.111)0., v,J 
NW 88321 Docld:32989545 Page 612 
