13-00000 
Cooperative Facilities to Obtain 
the Advantages of Computers 
Michael J. Cerullo 
Asst. Professor of Accounting 
Srate Univ. of New York at Albany 
1400 Washington Ave. 
Albany, N. Y. 12222 
' .. 
"Because of general dissatisfaction, 30% of the surveyed service bureau clients 
planned to discontinue using service bureaus." 
Computer Use 
A recent study of 2,500 companies conducted by 
the Research Institute of America, revealed that 55% 
of the firms regularly use computers in conducting 
their business. Further breakdown of the study 
shows that an average of 32"/4 own or lease their own 
computers, and 23"/4 use an outside service bureau for 
processing data.I 
While a majority of the companies surveyed do use 
computers in some form, a significant 45%.of. the re­
spondents do not use any type of computerized data 
processing service. Those companies cited the fol­
lowing reasons for not using computers:2 
Operation too small 
Too costly 
Looked into and tabled for the present 
Present methods satisfactory 
Plan to install a computer within a 
year 
Per Cent 
50 
35 
31 
21 
8 
Plan to begin using a service bureau 8 
within a year 
Other ~ 
Total (multiple answers) 166% 
Service Bureau Use 
In addition to the non-users, another recent 
study revealed that most service bureau clienis are 
not effectively using their service bureau and, as 
a result, are receiving few, if any, of the advan­
tages of electronic· data processing (EDP). Most 
of the surveyed service bureau clients were:3 
l. Receiving routine services which do not sav~ 
them money. 
2. Not planning to expand into more sophisticated, 
higher-payoff applications. 
3. Not receiving indirect benefits and savings, 
such as improved information !or decision 
making. 
4. Not satisfied with current services. 
The study also disclosed that because of the gen­
eral dissatisfaction, 30"/4 of the surveyed service 
bureau clients planned to discontinue using service 
bureaus and purchase in-house computers.4 
Cooperative Service Bureaus 
Both non-users and dissatisfied service bureau 
clients, therefore, offer a ready market for a newer 
approach to obtaining the advantages of EDP - the 
formation of a cooperative service bureau. A coop­
erative service bureau consists of several sponsor­
ing firms who jointly own a computer and share in 
its operating costs at a much lower expense than in­
dividual ownership of a computer. If carefully 
planned before operations begin, a cooperative ser­
vice bureau will provide its sponsors with all the 
advantages of EDP plus many other advantages unique 
to jointly-shared facilities and personnel. 
Among these additional advantages are: 
1. The sponsors would purchase a computer tai­
lored to their specific needs. 
2, They would have· exclusive use of the computer. 
3. Their computer would be available for use at 
any time. 
4. They could share the costs of any computer 
programs developed. 
5. They could share the costs of any package or 
canned computer programs purchased. 
6. They would have available for their exclusive 
use a staff of data processing experts and 
a computer - at a fraction of the cost of 
individual ownership. 
Facton Insuring the Success of the Cooperative 
• The first step in forming a successful coopera­
tive service bureaµ·is to enroll an appropriate num­
ber of comapnies. Ideally the cooperative should be 
limited to five or six sponsoring firms. A larger 
number may create unmanageable problems i nvoh·i ng 
operations, communications, control, scheduling of 
computer time, and so forth. A smaller number may 
make the venture economically unfeasible. 
