( 
( 
( 
. ) 
S:E;CTION 107 .• CUHIT~ 107N 
.( 2) 
{ 3) 
{4) 
(5) 
(6) 
{ 7) 
(12) 
(13) 
(14) 
Residence and employment (If no change since last ,iustification 
letter, mcr~ly stBte "no ch~ngc."} 
Current mtJrab-::rsh:lp ,rnd. po·sit:i.on held in ::ubvcr'::d.Ye organizations 
Summa.ry of information fu:::-ni shed and/or services r<md.ered during 
pe~tinent period 
~mount paid for snrvices and expenses by month 
(Initial justification letter should set forth amount, if any, 
ever paid under &AC authority.) 
Type and number of meetings attended and other activity 
:Number of written and oral statements submitted 
{List separately.} 
Information furnishecl of unusu~l Yalue 
Approximate number of persons on whom informant furnished coverage 
and their importance 
Steps being taken to advance informant 
Stability and reliability 
{Set forth personal weaknesses, domestic difficulties. i~dicaticns 
of untrustworthiness or unreliability, or other similar problems 
presented by informant, and steps being talten to prevent any suc:h 
situations from later becoming source of embarrassment to the 
Bureau.) • . 
In4octrination against disclosure 
(State vrhe~.;her every opportunity has been taken to properly 
indoctrinate informant against making any disclosure of his 
relationship with Bureau thro'ugh any media.) 
All necessary-action taken on information furnished­
l1i scell.meous 
{Any other matters concernin"g informant.' s operatio.n which should 
be brought to Burea1., 1 s attention) 
(Where applicable-, substitute potential informant, confidential 
source, panel source, or source of information for the •:/Ord "informant.") 
c. When payment to an informant has been authorized for a definite 
period of time, advise the Bureau at least two weeks.in adTanoe of the 
expiration of the period for which :;-iayment has been authorized as to 
whether the services of the informant are to be continued. 
d. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau. requesting continuation of pa,yments. Follow form in 
subsection 3b. 
e.. Letters requesting authority to continue (increase, decrease) payments 
to an informant should be submitted in d:uplicate except that the 
copy should consist only of the first page of the letter. When 
payments as requested by' the field ·2.re approved, the single-page 
copy will be stamped "Approved" at the Bureau and returned. If the 
recommendation is not approved, correspondence will be prepared 
and transmitted to the field. 
f. In order for this system to function·properly, payment letters must 
be .explicit. 
g. When payments are autl1orized by the Bureau, it is the personal responsi­
bility of each SAC definitely to assure himself that full value is 
being received. 
h. Discontinuance of ~ayments 
If at·any time it appears the.information being produced by the 
informant is not comrnen.surate with the payment.s being macle to hirn, 
the payments should be immedia.tely c.isco:n.tinued or adjusted accordingly 
and the Bureau promptly aijvised, 
i. Extraordinary-expenses 
In connection with the operation of paid informants, if any extraor~ 
dina.ry expenses are anticipated for which approval has no.t been given, 
obtain specific Bureau authority. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1350 
19 
3-15-65 
