( 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
(3) 
$. ;ION 87. SEG'URITY IlTVESTIG.ATIC 87C 
···• ·•· field office territory, the name and title of each Negro 
inclu.de'1 in this total who maintains a. national level 
position, and the name and title of each N'E:g'ro included in 
this total who ma.inta:i.ns a district level position above 
the status of "club chairman. 11 Members of the Communist 
Party, US.A, who are now carried as unidentif.ied but who are 
known to be members of the Jregro race should.be included -in 
the total numbe1· of negroe s.] 
When possible, totals should be broken down·a.s to nation­
ality, sex, employment, veterans, and membership in unions. 
.Auxiliary offices which, due to lack of Communist Party 
activity in their divisions, have been authorized t~ sub­
mit data by quarterly letter should include membership. 
figures in these letters to the Bureau and office of origin. 
These letters to be submit·ced by auxiliary offices prior 
• to first day of month in which quarterly repo?,'t is due. 
Office of origin responsible to obtain complete figures 
from its auxiliary offices. 
{b) In prepgring estimates, best available informants· 
and sources must be used. Include in cover pages of 
quarterly reports evaluation of degrea of reliability 
of figures furnis,hed by each source and of final figures 
submitted. Also include in cover pages *otal number of 
individuals positively identified as Communist Party 
members and total number of individuals tentatively 
identified as .party members within the twelve-mo: '·c. period 
illlll1,.ediately preceding the submission of the g_uar:,,•r-ly report. 
In reporting membership figures, information from one 
source only is not acceptable unless facts are set forth 
demonstr·ating information from this source is the moat 
accurate and most reliable information available. 
(o) Explain in de·l;ail any increase or decrease in membership 
figures previou~ly submitted. Where informants use such 
terms as "inac:t;ive" or "paper" members, their ~xact 
understanding of the meaning of the terms used and the· 
number of individuals so described must be clearly 
explained. Full explanation must be made as to whether 
individuals so described are included in final membership 
figures submitted~ together with reason for their 
inclusion or exclusion. 
(d) Results of membership recruiting drives 
(e) Make discreet efforts to ascertain re·sults or' annual 
national registration drives. 
Funds (Bureau file 100-3-63) 
(a} Income and expenditures 
(b} Plans and results of fund drives including: 
·.I. Total amount sought by the state Communist Party 
or ge.n i z at ion 
II. Specific amount to be contributed by the state 
organ.ization to the national committee fund drive 
III. Specific amount to be contributed by the ·state 
organization to "The Worker" fund drive 
• IV. _Specific amount to be retained by the state organiza­
tion after contri butn1g to the na·tional committee . 
and "The Worker" fund drives for use in the state 
organization's own operritions 
(o) Large contributions by known party groups or front 
organizations 
(d
8
) Identity of any new party "angels" 
( ) ·Distribution of funds not sent to Communist 
headquarters, such as ·funds in safe-deposit 
--separate bank accounts, etc. 
. 
Party 
boxes, 
(f) .lny·sp~cio.l padding of expense accounts by Communist 
-:~~r~Y._functionaries should be reported. 
7 
10-14-63 
38321 Docld:32989529 Pa e G93 
.-.. ~} 
·- •·r­. ..,. 
~1 
