. . .. .... 
,• 
SUBJECT: 
.. 
' Foreign Support FQr Activities Planned to Disrupt 
or Harass th~ Republican Nat.ional Convention 
1. There are only limited indications thus far of 
foreign efforts to inspire, support or take advantage 0f 
activities ·designed to disrupt or harass the National 
Convention of the Republican Party in· San Diego, 21-23 
August 1972. ~ 
2. Some American participants at the Soviet-controlled 
·world Asser:~bly for Peace and Independence of the Peop.les of 
Indochina, l~ld 11-13 February 1972 in Paris/Versailles, 
attempted unsuccessfully to include a call for international 
demonstrations to take place at the time of the Republican 
National Convention. A ~c~resantativc of the San Diego 
'Convention Coalition (SDCC), one of the domestic action 
groups t.1r~ctt-ing on the Republican Co1npcntic~1, requested 
, the .Ar.terican Delegations' Steering Committee .at the World 
Assembly to include a specific call fo~ international 
support of activities against the.Republican convention 
in their proposal to the Action Cor::;nission of ·the. l'i'orld 
Assembly. This request, hm,·ever, was droppcc: as too 
divisive by the Steerini Coccittce, despite initial indica­
tions that the proposal would be taken io the floor of 
the Assembly. 
I . 
3. John LENNON, a British subject, has provided 
financial support to Project "YES", which in turn paid 
·,.the travei expenses to the World Assembly of. a representa-
tive of leading anti\\·ar activist Rennie DAVIS. (DAYIS' repre­
sentative is tentatively planning to a~iist in preparations 
for disruptive actions at the San Diego Convention.) -
Pr.oject "YES" is an adjunct to another LEN~O:]-supported pro­
ject, the Election Year Strategy Information CenteT (EYSIC), 
o~ which Rennie DAVIS is a key leader, which was set-up to 
direct New Left protest ictivities at the Rc~ublican 
National Convention. In Paris Rennie DAVIS' representative 
to_the World Assembly met at least once with officials of 
the Provisional Revolutionnry Government of.South Vietnam; 
it is not known if the Republican National C6nvention ,,·as 
: 
. . . : 
discussed.· ~ ~ 
,'. 
' 
\ 
