13-00000 
PAGE 26 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
REP. HASTERT: I thank the gentleman. 
And now, Mr. Hitchcock, I'd like to welcome you especially. A gentleman from 
Ohio asked me a little while ago if I was an attorney. Indeed, I was not an 
attorney, I happened to be a history teacher for 16 years before I ever got into 
politics. So it's certainly a noble trade, and happy that you're here. I know 
the chairman wanted to introduce you personally, but he couldn't make it this 
afternoon. 
You have contributed students, I understand, a clerk for this commission, and 
have been involved in it at a very high degree. So we welcome you and listen to 
your testimony. 
BRUCE HITCHCOCK {Teacher, Noblesville High School, Indiana): Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. And I, too, would ask that my written statement be entered into the 
record and I will briefly summarize. 
REP. HASTERT: Without objection, all written statements will be entered into the 
record. 
MR. HITCHCOCK: Thank you. 
My name is Bruce Hitchcock and I am a teacher at Noblesville High School located 
in Noblesville, Indiana, which is a community approximately 20 miles north of 
Indianapolis. I am currently completing my 28th year in secondary education. 
My teaching assignment has primarily been in the areas of United States history, 
American government, and international relations. 
And I want to express my appreciation to the committee for affording me the 
honor and privilege of being here today and permitting me to make some brief 
remarks concerning an issue about which I have very strong convictions not only 
as a citizen, but as an educator. 
In the spring of 1994, I assigned my Honors United States history class a 
project studying the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. This project 
culminated in the students placing the Warren Commission Report on trial. Half 
of the class represented the prosecution and half the class defended the Warren 
Commission Report. The class became quite interested in, and many would say 
obsessed with this subject. The project resulted in a trial which became quite 
intense and divisive, so much so that the class had to have a party at the end 
of the semester to rekindle friendships. They became so fascinated with the 
subject of the assassination that they requested an opportunity to travel to 
Washington, DC during the summer following their graduation to do additional 
research. 
From that modest class assignment developed an internship opportunity with the 
JFK Assassination Records Review Board. To date, four student groups from 
