14-00000 
• I 
11 April 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Special Group (5412) Meeting, 11 April 1963 
'~ C/6 1. L Reconnaissance of Laos and North Vietnam was reviewed. 
The Group expressed approval of the CIA program. They authorized two 
flights over Laos and North Vietnam on the assumption that one of the 
NEFA flights would cover the extreme western targets desired by Sarit. 
If, on the other hand, the four India - Communist China border flights 
were not executed at this time, then CIA was authorized to fly three 
flights over Laos and North Vietnam to cover all of the targets desired 
by both Sarit and COMOR_] 
f6 
2. ~tatus of negotiations for India - Communist China recon-
naissance was reported. It was agreed that this question should be 
pursued further by CIA. No immediate action was indicated. Dr. Scoville 
reported that no further information would be forthcoming from either 
India or Thailand until about the 20th of April;} 
3. Cuban operations. The proposed infiltration-exfiltration 
operations, past and projected, were reviewed and approved. The 
proposed program of sabotage and harrassment, both the general 
program and the detailed plan, was discussed at length. It was reported 
by Mr. Bundy that this program was developed more or less at the 
direction of higher authority. It was not the intention of higher authority 
to approve and authorize specific actions; what he was seeking was de­
tailed information concerning our capability and what might be expected 
on a series of operations which were within our capability. I took the 
position, which was supported by Alexis Johnson (somewhat less vocally, 
however) that I questioned the advisability of proceeding with the program 
until we had crystallized the total policy designed to remove the Soviets 
from Cuba and also remove Castro. I said I was not clear as to how this 
was to be accomplished, nor did I feel that there was any agreed series 
of actions designed to meet this end objective. Therefore, it appeared 
to me that we are projecting a few of the annoying operations, none of 
