13-00000 
·~ l;1c,~.at the testimony that is called into 
• e.-jtion by tt1e PSE: 
Tile cfair.) t'1a{ Oswald's iifle was 
ind in-1t10 Tr.x.is'School Book Depository. 
2. The claim that bullet hulls matching 
.wald's riflu were iound in the s:ime place. 
3. The claim that one gunman was seer. 
iht: "Q::;waicJ window" of the Dalias Book 
pository. 
i. The claim that two gunmen were seen 
this window. 
i The claim that a gunman was seen 
a different winc.Jw of that building. 
5. Another cla:rn that no shots came from 
1 grassy knoil. and a claim by the witness 
o saw the g:..nsmoke on the knoll that 
also heard a shot from that direction. 
7. A c!aim b:; a Dailas policeman that 
ither he nor O~i;::er Tippitt knew Oswald. 
3. The clai:-:1 cy the pathologist-the 
irren C'9fSr.i:3::io~·s only source of infor­
.tion aboCt t,.,e a:;topsy-that the X-rays 
:I autopsy ;::--:tcgraphs sup;)ort his tes­
aony before :.-; ·::::irnMission. 
). The cla:m t:y a member of the Warren 
mmissior. t':a: :1-iere was nothing fraudu-
.. t about the ··,'d.~ren Report. 
10. The cla;~; bv Earl Warren that the 
mmission fc,J~d 'r.o evidence of a con­
iracy: that r-:o'.':e ct t!'1e Warren Report's 
tics ever fou:.d anything the Commission 
j missed; tha'. "e had found nothing since 
• publicatio:: c! the Report to change his 
w; and tha, ~e knew of no Commission 
,mber.who ha~ ever changed his mind 
:>ut their co:-iciusions. 
If we accept that each inst,mce of stress 
indicates docP.pl1on, an interesting and 
unexpected possibility em.erges: 
Oswald was involved in some way in the 
assassination. if onl·1 as a fall g11y. Some of 
the Ddll~s police force may have been in­
volved. planted the evidence that impli­
cated O!::v:a!d, ::ind covered up the fact th::it 
thera was a conspiracy. The medical exam­
iner believed hrs own testimony to the War­
ren Commission, but later had doubts. The 
Commission found evidence of a conspir­
acy but didn't believe it. so they covered 
it up in order to present a tidy package to 
the public. Later, at least one member of 
the Commission changed his mind, but 
since he didn't know what really did hap­
pen, he decided to say nothing. So there 
was conspiracy in Dallas. and in Washing­
ton nothing worse than blundering. 
I could say all this with certainty if I knew 
that stress always equa:s deception. Unfor­
tunately, I do not know that. But the PSE 
analysis of the assassination tapes has 
generated a staggering amount of fresh 
doubt regarding the Warren Report. This 
doubt rises not only from specific points 
the PSE has called into question, but from 
the very sinister implications of the very 
existence of deception among policemen, 
government officials and Commission 
members. The question remains: did such 
deception exist or was the stress found by 
the PSE the result. in every case, of an out­
side issue? 
Ohviously. whenever stress is found by 
the PSE and cannot be cross-checked by 
a structured interrogJtion, some prob:3.bil;ty 
must be accepted that this stress is caused 
by an outside issue. No study has vet t;::en 
conducted to e-;:ab:ish wilat this probabi!ity 
might be, but let us pick. for the sake of 
discussion, a figure that rnay seem ridicu­
lously high-70 percent. In other words. we 
are assuming that 70 percent of the times 
the PSE finds stress in testimony. it results 
from something other than lying. 
Now, let's ignore the deception indicated 
in the testimony of the eyewitnesses: even 
if present, it might have resulted from mere 
desire for attention. That leaves eight "in­
siders" who have demonstrated strcss-.•:hen 
making statements supporting the Vv'arren 
Report: the Dallas policemen Hill, Jacks. 
Jackson and Weitzman; the medical exam­
iner, Captain Humes: Commission staffer 
Wesley Liebler; Commission member John 
McCloy; former Chief Justice Earl Warren. 
Assuming that there is a 70 percent 
chance that any single instance of stress 
is "o.utside issue," what is the probability 
that all eight instances are due to factors 
other than deception? Elementary proba­
bility theory tells us. that it is seven-tenths 
raised to the eighth power, or approximately 
6 percent. 
In other words, even making some fairly 
conservative assumptions. there is a 94 per­
cent chance that at least one of these eight 
men is lying. _ 
My own personal opinion? I don't know. 
I remember the young man with the ring. 
He said he was wearing it, and he was. 
• but he stressed. He stressed not because 
he was lying, but because there was some­
thing about that ring that really bothered 
him, something he didn't want the world to 
know. Perhaps that is also true of these men 
who, in one way or another, learned some 
part of the truth about the assassination of 
John F. Kennedy. 
I suppose I'm not absolutely sure even 
of that. When I first met Bob Smith of the 
Committee, I asked him if there was any 
one thing the government could do to clear 
up the mystery. Yes. he replied. the one 
thing that would help more than anything 
else would be to make available the physi­
cal evidence - the detailed FBI lab re­
ports, the X-rays and autopsy photographs. 
the microscopic slides, the bloodstained 
clothing, yes, even the President's brain. 
wherever it has been hidden. These things. 
he said, would go far toward answering the 
questions abotlt what actually happened 
that day in Dal las. Maybe they would even 
confirm the Warren Report. 
So when I say I'm not absolutely certain 
these men are concealing something. I 
mean I can think of something that could 
conceivably change my mind That is. if the 
government would open all its file5 on this 
matter to us and prove that we are wrong 
-we, the people who ten years later still 
believe we haven't yet heard the full account 
of the events of November 22. 1963. 
~ 
