13-00000 
, APR 04 '97 09:59AM 
1ST ,ITEM of Levell printed in FULL format. 
-~· J,, 
Copyright (c) 1.997 Maryland Law Review, Inc. 
University of Maryland School of Law 
1997 
56 Md. L. Rev. l 
LENGTH: 21305 words 
ARTICLE: THE VIRULENCE OF THE NATIONAL APPETITB FOR BOGUS REVELATION 
Kermit L . Hall• 
PAGE 2 
• Dean, College of Humanities;.Executive Dean, Colleges of Arts and Sciences; 
and Professor of Hiscory and Law, The Ohio State trn.iversity~ Ph.D., University 
.of Minnesota; M.S.L., Yale Law School. This Article was presented as the ju~e 
Simon E. Sobeloff lecture at the University of Maryland School of Jiaw on .r 
February 28, 1996. My thanks to Barbara Terzian, Jeff Marquis, and Kenneth 
Wasserman for their research support and to John Johnson, Donald G. Gifford, ari.d 
Howard Leichter for their comments and suggestions about earlier versions of 
this Article. I am especially grateful to Sheryl Walter for her suggestions 
about sources and her willingness to share her ext.eneive knowledge of the 
secondary literature on openness of and access to government records.For the 
title of this Article, I am indebted to one of Baltimore's favorite citizens, 
H.L. Mencken, who, in another context, commented on •the virulence of the racial 
appetite for bogus revelation.• H.L. Mencken, A Book of Prefaces 23-24 (1917). 
TEXT: 
[*l] 
l:nt.roduction 
The specter of conspiracy has haunted Americans throughout the second half of 
the twencieth century. ·nl In the 1950s, Senator Joseph [ *2) McCarthy• e 
Communise conspiracy theory - the •second Red Scare" - traumatized the nation 
and destroyed lives. n2 More recently, David Irving's explanation of the 
Holocaust as an enormous historical fabrication n3 has defied logic and 
distorted reaiity. n4 Even Abraham Lincoln rests uneasily in his grave, as 
theorists of his murder advance plots so tangled that only the exhumation of 
John Wilkes Booth's bones can unravel them. nS 
• - -Footnotes- - - - - -
nl. This phenomenon is not unique to the modern era. There a~e many 
comprehensive historical accounts of the specter of conspiracy in America. See, 
e.g., Virginia Carmichael; Framing History; The Rosenberg Story and the Cold War 
(1993) (analyzing and tracing. the npolitically motivated production of the 
official Rosenberg story and the historical and cultural critiques performed by 
its re-presentation in literature, drama and the visual arts•);·David Brion 
Davis, The Slave Power Conspiracy and the Paranoid Style (1969) (discussing the 
cheory that slaveowners conspired against the rest of the country); The Pear of 
Conspiracy: Images of Un-American Subversion from the Revolution to the 
j 
