13-00000 
n ROLE AND RESPONSmJLlTIES 
L What particular qualifications and experience do you bring to the role of being a 
member of the ARRB? • 
Prlmarlly, I ming my background and cxpc:ricDco as a lawyer and piblic o~·.1 
ha.ve twice been elected a section officer in the Ammcan Bar Association and was 
recommended for thic nomination by the President of the American Bar 
AJl:!oclanon. My e.xperienee as a la~ tncl.udes threo years in prlvatc pracdce IJid. 
Din~ years as Solicitor Genaral and Chief Deputy Attamcy General in Minnesota. . 
For 7 l/2 years I have been 1he senior appointed official m the Minnesota Attomey 
Gcnml's Office, responsible for~ management and direction of an office of over 
200 attorneys. I have bandled·countless sensidve pmjects and cases, arguing ·throe 
cases before the United States Supreme Court and serving as legal co~ to two 
Minn~ota Oovem~rs and to•~ Miunosota Lcgislaturc. I have played: ~'1ve 
role WI.thin the Nauonal Association of Attorneys General, twice receivingiiajqr ·" 
national awards from NAAG. twice chairing 1he Conference of CJnef Deputies, antt ·~ • 
directing many of NAAG• s management improvement initiatives. , I teach 
Constitutional Law as an Adj~ct Professor at the University of Minnesota Law 
School 
From my experience as Minnesota Chief Deputy Attomey General, I have 
considerable experience dealing with the kind of processes envisioned by the Act. 
including establishing new ,adrninisttative procedures created by new statutes, 
worldng with a wide nmge of govemmental agencies, ~olving tough legal issues 
.raised by new laws, applying confidentiality rules, administering open iecords laws, 
issuing subpoenas, conducting government public hearlngS. and making difficult 
public decisions that _significantly impact citizens~ l undmtand the separation of 
powers issues that could be raised in the context of this Act Furthemiore_ I have • 
had no prior involvement in.any aspect of the Kennedy assassination OJ:" the 
assassination records. I would bring independent, objective judgment to the 
position. 
I also have a strong interest in historical preservation. My primary undergraduate 
major was History, an area in which I graduated summa cum laude with honors. I 
authored fl; 220 page local history and study e>f immigration. My research included 
reviewing records at the National Archives. I have also provided legal 
representation to the Minn~sota Historical Society and State Archivist for eight 
years. 
I have worked in the Congress for the United States Senate on Senator Hubert 
Humphrey's staff and have worked in the federal jndiciuy as a federal lavi clerk. I 
have worked closely ~ith the United States Department of Justice on a wide range 
of projects and cases. 
• lanuar}' 26, 1994 
0 J -26-9t O 1: 14 PM Pnn-:i ft":IQ 
·j 
I 
I 
