1· 
r,:emorandwn to M.r. ·Sullivan . 
Re: TECFL'lICAL SURVEILLANCE;. COVERAGE:· 
OF DIPLOMATIC ESTAB.LISHI,IBNTS • 
65-63113 • 
countries involved in political or military situations of particular· 
interest to U.S. i~telliffence community and/or to the FBI. 1ne 
technique must necessarily be considered an exploratory step since 
in some instances.in the past our experience has shovm the results 
are negligible and do not justify continuance while in other 
instance the coverage may be worthwhile for a long time. 
), 
Vie feel there are a number of cotmtries regctrding which 
1 coverage should be _attempted to _assess the potential .value. While the 
I Attorney General. spoke in tenns of "embassies 11,we feel simultaneous 
i coverage is .desirable, if possible i .~of the United Nations Delegations 
j also in order to determine from which spot the best intelligence ' emanates. • 
• 1Vi th regard to African countries we suggest coverage at • 
i t~1is time. of four addi -~ional countr~es: ( 1) ~epublic of the Cong? 
; (Leopoldville); (2) Guinea; (3) Mali and (4) Ji!orocco. TI1e Congo 1s a 
I key trouble spot in Africa. Guinea and Mali lean toward the Soviet: • 
j 9Ioc an~ are t~rge!s of So'Yie"~-bloc subve~sion. ~There_ 11av~ been .. 11ncreas1ng Soviet inroads 1n Norocco and koroccan terr1tor1al claims 
!) may pose serious problems in 1962., -
_ • lVi th reQ·ard to Latin-American countries we propose coverage of •five additional countries: (1) Brazil; (2) Argentina; (3) r .. iexico; 
(4) Venezuela and (5) Pancuna. It is felt Brazil, Argentina and Mexico 
represent excellent potential for acquisition of intelligence in view 
of.their influential positions .. Brazil itself is politically Wlstable. 
Venezuela and Panama are traditional trouble spots in Latin America. 
With regard to Asian and Southeast Asian coui1tries we propose coverage of six coWltries; (1) Indonesia; (2) Laos; (3) South Vietnam; 
(4) TI1ailand; (5) India and (6) Japan. Indonesia is a particular trouble spot at this time. Laos, South Vietnam and TI1ailand are all feeling the increased pressures of the Sino-Soviet bloc. India in the 
past has been the acknowledged leader of the neutralist nations. Japan, 
while oriented towa~d the West, has been beset by the problems of 
internal conm1unism. • . . 
Regarding Western Europe· we propose coverage of Portugal, 
a coW1try beset by the problems posed by Angola, its colony in Africa, 
- 2 -
