14-00000 
,' 
C-...... _ '. 
'--·• ... -l 
- z -
were in a position to sabotage the electrical plant in Havana. (I 
did not ask, neither did he specify which plant. ) He did not promise 
immediate acttor, 1 a<lding that he wanted to assure himsel1 0£ the 
details of the planned operation and the safety-odds of the man 
invoked. A-1 then indicated that h~ would certainly be in a 
position to accomplish this ·mission and others in the future and 
would be most grateful for any materiel we could put in place. 
I left the matter with him with the understanding that if it were 
possible we would proceed with caching the high explosives in 
the general area of Havana. He assurE:d me of their capability 
to Eer,·ice and retrieve the cache.· 
b. Request for Contact in Guantanamo 
AMBANG-1 asked me if it would be possible for us 
to arrange some means for Rogelio Cisneros to visit Guatanamo 
and talk to his brother who is an employee of the Naval Base and 
another agent 0£ theirs likewise employed there. The reason A-1 
gave for the request was that they wished to inform Ramon Cisneros 
Diaz of the JURE plans to begin the implementatio11 of their plan 
of resistance and o,•erthrow of the CasLro Regime. I adYised A-1 
that whereas ! would look into this matter as I could tentatively 
tell him that the chances of accomplishing this were remote, 
c, AMBANG-1 Political Plans 
AMBA1''G-l informed me that he was planning at 
this time to be in New York on or about 10 August and t~at following 
this trip he intended to go to Santo Domingo and Caracas. In Santo 
Domingo he hoped to set up a small base for operations such as a 
small house on a farm near the shore which could be used for boat 
travel to Cuba. Once he had made such arrangements he intended 
to talk to President Juan Bosch telling him of the plan and asking 
his acquiescence if not support. AMBAN'G•l intends to tell Bosch 
that he will not embarrass him and will go about his busineu in a 
secure and professional manner adding that if·he should embarrass 
Bosch. the latter could d~sclaim him and ·A-:1 would desist from 
any further activity there. 
So far as AMBANG-1 1s trip to Caraca~ is concerned, that. 
will be prin~ipally devoted to orienting the JURE representation 
( ... '····-
~--... :.l 
