11fo4'?103os-10010f 
...... 
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 
18 June 1964 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
·suBJECT: 303 Committee.Meeting - 18 June 1964 
1. • Item I: Autonomous Operations 
. This was raised in view of Manuel Ray's request for 
$25, 000 and indications that he is attempting to make a new expedition to 
Cuba in a chartered ship. Various courses of possible action with Ray 
were. discussed, ranging from .cutting him off altogether to giving him 
the money. It developed that Ray is acting inconsistently with the agreement 
with him which was that he would operate· outside the United States. Therefore 
it was decided that we would tell him that he must abide by the agreement, 
that he must find a base of operations o~tside the United.States and if he does 
we will endeavor to secure the release of his ship which is now in Puerto Rico, 
and tlia:t we will give :11im financial support. 
,,:/' • 2. With respect to Artime,2-it was pointed out that Artime's 
operations are very costly. CIA has put~. 6 :millioi_iP.nto .this operation 
i/fV 
this year - the future bill will be large, oufndt-as great. FitzGerald 
reported that Artime planned one hit and run operation a month, but he noted 
he would be lucky if he could pull off one every 3 months. Bundy seemed to 
feel Artime was more of a threat than an operator and should be maintained 
for that purpose and operations discouraged. FitzGerald pointed out this is 
not practical. It was agreed to proceed with Artime recognizing that U.S. 
or CIA support of him would probably be 11blown 11 • Furthermore it y.,.as. 
suggested that he be cautioned to be ·careful and not follow unduly reckless 
courses of action. 
3. There was along discussion on the implications of the CIA 
June 10th memorandum reporting plans of Cuban exiles to assassinate leading 
Cuban government leaders. This report was taken most seriously by the group. 
It was felt that the purpose of advising us through CIA of these plan~ was to 
put us on notice and therefore we- should not fail to take appropriate precautionary 
actions to see that no assassinat~on attempt of which we had knowledge was 
carried out. It was decided that appropriate authorities, i.e. Department of 
Justice and the FBI, should be notified and urged to take appropriate action 
against the individuals- involved. 
I took the position that we are overly exercised, that .I was 
inclined to write the whole thing off as Miami cocktail party talk rather than 
definite plans. Had I seen the Memo before it was d_istributed, I would have 
investigated the ~ource s and the credibility of the whole thing before taking 
action. However the group were more concerned than I and therefore planning to 
discuss the subject with the Attorney General and possibly Mr. Hoover. 
