13-00000 
~" 
-
:: ~ .::_ , .•.. 
security of the President and the successor to office. Just bow far you are going • 
to go for his protection and his security. I don't think you can get absolute 
security without almost establishing a police stater and we don't want that. 
You can't put security in a black groove or a white groove. It is in a gray 
groove; and certain chances have to be taken. You are dealing with a human 
being when you are dealing with the President of the United States. President 
Johnson is a very down to earth human being, and· it makes the security prob­
lem all the more difficult, but you can't bar him from the people. 
There are certain things that can be done, and I submitted a memorandum 
to the Secret Service, and to the White House on certain security steps that 
might be -taken and tightened up. But you are dealing with the general public 
and that is what has given me great concern in the recent e:i:pansi9n, -of the 
crit~ria for dissemination that we adopted after the assassination. 
Prior to that time we reported to the Secret Service all information that 
dealt with individuals who were potential killers or by whom acts of violence 
might be anticipated. The Secret Service would take that information and 
would do with it as they saw flt. I gave great consideration to it because I am 
not very happy with the criteria expansion, but I felt we ·b_ad to include subver­
sives of various character, and extremists. We have, in turn, furnished their 
names to the Secret Service. I. think 5,000 names up to the present time already 
have been submitted and there are at least three or four thousand more that 
will be submitted within the next few monthEJ. • • 
Then you come to the. problem of. what you are going to do when the Secret 
Service gets those names. They have to cal: upon the local authorities. Just 
recentlY, in the city of Ohicago, whe11 the President was there, the local ,-u­
thorities were asked to give .assistance as they usuallY do to the Secret Serv­
ice and they went to the homes of some of these people, and it resulted really 
almost in a house arrest. 
Now, I don't think there is any place in this country fbr that kind of th,ing, 
but these people who belonged to extreme subversive organizations or organiza­
tions that ·advocated the overthrow of government by force and violence were 
told that_ they couldn't leave their house or if they did they would. be ac­
companied by a police officer. That gives me great concern because in New 
York City. alone, you run into maybe three or four thousand such individuals 
who would be members of .subversiv.e organizations, and then you ~t into· the 
twilight zone of subversive fronts. 
Now, there again, merelY because a man belongs to a subversive•front organi­
zation, in my estimation doesn't mean that he is blacklisted and is a menace 
to the country for life. If he belongs to 20 of them, it certainly shows either 
one of two things, he is either very gullible and dumb or. he is a. menace. That 
has been my attitude in regard to Government service where you find a Gov­
ernment employee who belonged to one or two, maybe in • his early days. I 
don't beli~e this necessarily makes him a security risk. Rather, this would 
be dependent on the degree of his activity in the front group and his purpose and 
intent- in associating himself with it. But. where he has belonged to 15, 18, 20 
of them, I don't think he has enough. good judgment to be in the Government. 
Some ministers get drawn into organizations, some of- which . are under the 
domination of the Communist Party. Now, those ministers don't know that. 
They are just as loyal and patriotic as you and I are, but thei,y happen to belong. 
Now, that is where the question of human judgment has to be used. We -try 
to use it. in selecting these names. But I _was startled when I learned of 
the incident in Chicago because there you come pretty close to a house arrest 
and we don't want that. We don't want a gestapo. We have to, I think, main­
tain an even balance. 
I think it was very well expressed-
Mr. DULLES. May I ask you, Mr. Hoover, was this house arrest based on 
names you had furnished the Secret Service and they furnished the local 
authorities? 
¥r. HOOVER. Yes, sir. 
Representative Booos. That brings me back to the question I think I heard 
102 
