f 
) 
) 
SECTION 107. 
_) .-,-) 
[IN.AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CO:taDENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AN REIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASS-] 
107W 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
23. Disinformation 
The passage of deceptive information by an OA is a ~omplex operation 
which requires detailed planning and coordination between field office 
and FBIHQ. This technique should be employed only in OA operations 
in which the foreign intelligence service has apparently accepted the 
bona fides of the OA, when the benefit will clearly outweigh the risk 
to the overall OA operation. -
24. OA cover story 
Be aware that a f~reign intelligence principal may interrogate an OA 
in great detail as to how he secured his information, his family 
situation, his modus operandi, motivation, etc. Handling FBI SA must 
adequately prepare an OA for this probability. The most credible 
cover story is the one which involves the least fabrication. -
Unless security or other considerations dictate otherwise, the OA 
should personally obtain the information he passes. 
25. Receipt of money or property by OA 
Impress upon each OA that money or property received from a foreign 
intelligence principal or agent must be turned over to the FBI since 
retention of this money would put the OA in technical violation of 
Federal statutes, and this money may be us€d as evidence or exhibit. 
Compensation to the OA from the FBI for his cooperation is to be 
handled separately. Nominal or personal gifts, necessary for the OA1 s 
security and to maintain his relationship with the principal, may be 
given back to the OA by his handling FBI SA, foll<?wing FBIHQ approval. 
Consider the desirability and feasibility of obtaining a signed state­
ment from each OA reflecting his understanding of this requirement. 
The obtaining of such a statement is not mandatory, but desirable. 
Department attorneys have advised that, while it is not necessary to 
preserve that actual currency received by an OA, it is highly desirable 
to do so in cases in which prosecution could ensue. Whether or not the 
actual currency is retained, obtain a written statement from the OA 
describing the currency received by denomination, series number, and 
serial number; and also make an independent record of such currency.· 
The above instructions are not to be interpreted to require the im­
pounding of funds paid to an OA by a foreign government or foreign 
intelligence service for goods or services rendered by the.GA in 
legitimate, business transactionso 
26. Payments to FCI assets - either OA or IA 
a. When deemed necessary and expedient, each SAC is authorized to 
eA-pend up to $400 to develop FCI assets. This money may be used 
to pay for services and/or expenses. This authority is renewable 
by FBIHQ if the initial $400 has been expended. Blue slip re­
claiming payments from FBIHQ need not summarize information 
obtained since proliferation of this information could possibly 
jeopardize asset's security. 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
35 
10-15-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1208 
-i i 
i 
·I 
I I 
