( 
( 
SECTION 107 •• ;CURI'.i.'Y INE'ORNLNTS .AND CONFIDE.-L S01..:;WES 107G 
G. D:::'ORM.Alfi.'S I INj'Qfil'1ATIOlI 
1. General instructions ro oral snd written inform~tion 
a. Instructions regarding preparation, submission, and handliPg of 
inform:i.tion :r·ecei ved from info1·mants apply not only to s ect1ri ty 
informants but also to potential security informants, panel source::i, 
security confiden·\;ial sources, an:l security sources of information. 
b. Specific instructions and guidance must be given to inf·ormants 
concerning preparation of statements containing their itifo~nation. 
c. They should be submitted as quickly as possible after a meeting 
or aoti vi ty. 
d. Written statements should be submitted w:i..,encvel' poss:i ble, but if such 
cannot be done information may be provided orally. In espionage ~nd 
foreign na·hio:nali-by mattc:rs w:ritten statements are usually necessary 
only in those instances involving possible future prosecution. (In 
the majority of oases diplomats or officials who are not subject to 
prosecution are involved.) 
e. Carefully soru·Hnize 1:1goh, bearing in mind that if informant is called 
upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be 
introduced in court. 
f. All information furnished by informants orally or in writing must be_ 
promptly reviewed, reoordeo., indexed)' evaluated, channelized, and all 
necessary action taken. Form FD-306 may be used in lieu of a chan­
nelizing memorandum if desired. If so used, prepare copies of· FD-306 
as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy of the 
informant 1 s statement being channelized. Channelization should be 
noted on original FD-306 and on all copies under "Remarks." 
g. Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, advise the trial 
attorney that informant not only furnished information concerning 
instant case but also provided other statemtnts not pertinent to case 
a·l; issue. The trial attorney will thus be prepared in "the event 
informant testifies on direct examination or cross-examination that 
he furnished information in addition to his testimony. 
h. See su1'.section 11 for instructions regarding filing informant sta·bements. 
2. Recording written and oral information 
a. Written by informant 
( 1) :tfay be in handwriting or hand printing of informant or typed. 
( 2) Origina.l only should be submitted and informants should never 
retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously check 
informants to see tha·l; they do not keep any notes or copies. 
( 3
4
) Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification. 
( ) Date when informant prepares sta·l;ement should be placed at ·!;he 
top of it. 
( 5) All informatio-n obtained by informants regarding each meeting 
or each separa·l;e activity in which the-y engage should be sub­
mitted in one statement v1he·bher the information is of 
evidentiary or intelligence value. 
l"Oa 
6-13-62 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1546 
