13-00000 
.• 
• .• 
SECRET 
c) (S) Potential damage to a growing intelligence collection method. Firms 
which assist CIA by permitting· the use of their documentation in support of non-official 
cover do so voluntarily and without remuneration. In addition, CIA generally requests 
that the companies sign secrecy agreements. Therefore, the unilateral release by CIA of 
· information about this association would complicate future negotiations by creating the 
perception that we are an unreliable partner. 
• The official disclosure of one such secret arrangement, even at a 30-year remove, 
would almost certainly be noted in the corporate board rooms of all firms that have an 
association with CIA. 
(S) Release of information on private sector alias documentation would reduce 
. CIA' s range of options for supporting its increasing use of non-official cover. The 
• magnitude of the threat this carries is unpredictable. Because of the versatility of non­
official cover as well as its unique applicability to certain types of targets, CIA' s 
apprehensions about giving up information that could help adversaries are substantial. 
• Non-official cover is the most productive way to gather human intelligence on terrorist 
organizations, weapons proliferators, narcotics traffickers, members of international 
organized crime and money launderers, and countries with which we have no 
diplomatic relations. Almost all of our intelligence on weapons proliferation, for 
example, comes from NOC officers and assets. 
d) (C) Potential physical danger to CIA officers and assets. Adding to an 
adversary's knowledge of specific forms of alias documentation used in non-official cover 
could help unmask CIA officers or assets by the profile of typical documentation CIA is 
known to carry. With the increased availability of sophisticated statistical. analysis, the 
threat from "profiling" would increase exponentially as more information is released. This 
is of particuiar concern when working against hostile targets such as terrorists and narco­
traffickers. 
• Intelligence .collection against targets like these requires a watertight alias 
documentation mechanism that allows oui-officers to operate as safely and freely as 
possible. 
⇒E) Accommodation addresses 
c) Potential damage to a growing intelligence collection method; and 
d) Potential physical danger to CIA officers and assets. 
(C) Accommodation addresses were and still are used in support of a wide variety 
.of covert operations involving both official and non-official cover: The potential damage 
SECRET 
5 
