13-00000 
:en Oswald's rifle. The PSE shu.ved con­
dc~::t,:;-:· str-.:55 in his sta!oments. 
• Ratrol:~~.1n Gerald L. Hill testified th,1t he 
und 111~.Je·spent bullcrhulls on the floor 
me:1ti', tho ,-,indow from which the fatal 
Iots at !eged I~"Nere fired. The PSE showed 
1rd stress in his statements. 
The rif!c was one of the principal points 
:cd by the \A✓ ~:-rcn Comrr.ir;~ic~ tc !ink 
sw11td to the assassination. The PSE sub­
anti.ited the testimony that Oswald owned 
rifle ar.d that !he evidence supplied to 
ballistics expert indicated this rifle was 
e murd~r weapon. However, the PSE did 
>t subs:an'.iate the controversial claims of 
allas p-.:i!ice regarding the discovery of 
The ho:;.pital employee was apparently 
!ling liie trL:'.:'l when he recounted finding 
e b.Jllet on a s,retcher a! Parkland HoSl!)i­
I, but ~-- :~:tics have charged that the 
Jllethaa~e~ :e:iberately p!anted there. 
1is is the fa-,:-:.is ·'single bullet" which the 
arren Rei=c0: says passed through the 
)dies of b:-::-. :'."'e President and Governor 
:mrially, ar.c tnen iodged in Connaily's 
~ist. Seve~a; researchers have tried to 
peat this, !:·::-:; t!'l::: same type of bullet 
to the wrist :,f ; :adaver. The bullets never 
mained pefe:~:y intact. as the one found 
, the stretcher; ti":ey became twisted lumps 
lead and cooper. 
The secor.:: :ir.k be,ween Oswald and the 
;sassinaticn is the charge that he killed 
fficer Tipp:rt a Da!las policeman. while 
!eing from :::e s:ene of the first shooting. 
number oi eyewitnesses have testified 
at they saw Oswald shoot Tippit!. and one 
them, Dorr::ngo Benavides. was inter-
3wed on the CBS tapes. He was asked 
there was any doubt in his mind that 
:iwald was the man he saw shoot Tippit!. 
~ replied. '·No. sir, there was no doubt 
all." There was absolutely no stress in 
s statement. He was telling the truth. 
The killing cf Officer Tippit! by Oswald 
1s fueled the ii res of controversy over the 
ar_ren Rep:lr!. Tippit! was far from his usual 
.~at when he was shot. Some witnesses 
,ve alleged that Tippit! and Oswald were 
ten together :n Jack Ruby's nightclub. 
1ey thacrize ti13t the three men were part 
an assassination conspiracy, and that 
ppitt had been sent to silence Oswald. 
1t had been beaten to the draw. 
Th_e Dallas police radio dispatcher, 
fficer r ... 1urray Jackson, was asked if he 
ought Tippit! knew Oswald. "No." he 
plied. •·1 don't think he knew Oswald." Did 
1ckson know Oswald? "No," answered 
1ckson. ··1 didn't either." The PSE showed 
iavy stress in both statements. 
Perhaps the greatest source of con­
>versy over the Warren Report is it's claim 
at all the shots were fired by one gunman. 
Jme eyew;tnesses claim to have heard 
Iots and seen gunsmoke in the area of 
low hillock ahead and to the right of the 
·esidtrntial motorcade. This hillock has 
•me to be k,,own as "the grassy knoll." 
"le of !hes<} witnesses was a railroad 
lrker named S.M. Holland, who observed 
the scene from an overpass near the knoll. 
The PSE ~onlirmcd Iha! he thought he had 
seen a pu:t of smoke on the knoll, but it 
could not support his cl.aim that he had 
heard a shot from that direction. 
Another witness, Charles Brehm, was 
quoted by Mc1rk Lane as having said that 
he had seen a portion of 111':! Presiden!':3 
c;k11II flyin!) hRr.k OVfH lhP. IP.fl rei:ir P.nd of 
the limousine. Lane offered this as evidence 
of a shot from the grassy knoll. On the CBS 
tapes. Brehm stated heatedly that he had 
bQ,en quoted out of context, and emphatic­
ally denied that any shots had come from 
the knoll. Despite his emotional state, there 
was almost no stress in this statement. 
Officer Jacks of the Dallas police, who 
was riding in the limousine of Vice­
President Johnson. denied that any of the 
shots had come from the direction oi the 
grassy knoll. The PSE turned up a fair de­
gree of stress. 
Three witnesses. Mrs. Caroline Walther. 
Arnold Rowland and Howard Brennan, 
claimed to have seen gunmen in the win­
dows of the Texas School Book Depository 
building. Mrs. Walther said she saw two 
men, one armed with a rifle, the second 
' 
Chief Justice Warren: 
"We explored both these 
theories and found 
no evidence that 
eithe·r group was involved" 
' 
with a shorter gun. Rowland told the Warren 
Commission he had seen two men, one an 
elderly Negro, in the window Oswald is 
alleged to have fired from, but on the CBS 
tapes he claimed he had seen an armed 
man at a different window. Th'e Commission 
relied heavily on the testimony of Brennan, 
who claimed to have seen a gunma·n in the 
"Oswald window" actually firing the last of 
the shots. The PSE showed hard stress in 
the testimony of all three witnesses. 
The PSE analysis of the eyewitnesses' 
testimony regarding the source of the snots 
is ambiguous. It supports Holland's claim 
to have seen a puff of smoke on the knoll. 
and Brehm's denial that at1y shots came 
from that direction, and it raises serious 
doubts about all other claims c1nd counter­
claims. This contradiction seems to result 
from the notorious unreliability of eyewit­
nesses, perhaps compounded by a fair 
amount of fabrication. Deception, if it is 
present here, may have been motivated 
merely by a desire for attention. Or there 
may have been darker reasons . 
. There is, however, other evidence and 
testimony that could shed some light on the 
existence, number and location of assas­
sins other than Oswald. This brings us to 
perhaps the most dubious and controversial 
element in the Warren Commission's ver­
sion of the event-the autopsy. 
Within minutes af:er the shooting. Ker,­
ncdy had beer. rushed to the err.£?rgcncy 
room at Parkland Hospital, where Dr. Mal­
colm Perry tried to save his life. Th~ physi­
cian saw that the President had suflered 
a massi'✓e head wound and a smaller wound 
in the throat. Perry pcrform8d a tracheos­
tomy, cutting through the throat wclmd i:i 
~n atternpt to open a breathing p:!SS?.ge. 
Af,erwc1rd. when hope for the President had 
been abandoned, Perry met with the press 
and declared that the wound in the front 
of the neck had been an entry wound. 
The President's body was flown to 
Washington, D.C. There. approximately 
eight hours after the shooting, :an autopsy 
was p3rformed at Bethesda Na'lfat Hosp1ta1. 
Because of the tracheostomy. the nature ot 
the neck wound could no longer be ob­
served and was, at first, overlooked. Later, 
aiter consulting the Dallas doctors, the 
Bethesda pathologists concluded that it 
was an exit wound. The autopsy report 
stated that there were two entry wounds, 
one low in the rear scalp and one at the 
right base of the nee~; and two exit wounds. 
the .throat wour:id and a large irregular 
wound on the right side of the head. 
The cor.fusiori was compounded when 
two FBI agents present at the autopsy 
reported that a wound had been found in 
the President's back, and that no corre­
sponding exit wound had been located. 
Diagrams made during the autopsy seemed 
to confirm this, showing the lower of the 
two entry wounds to be below the shoulders, 
not ai the base oi the neck. What became 
of the bullet? The agents reported that 
Bethesda doctors thought the bullet had 
dropped from the wound when the Dallas 
doctors attempted external heart massage. 
But this was the shot that the Commission 
claimed had passed through Kennedy and 
struck Governor Connally. 
X-rays and color photographs oi the au­
topsy were made. The brain was removed 
from the body. Brain and skin tissL:e slides 
were prepared for microscopic examina­
tion. Remarkably, the Warren Commission 
never asked to see any of this evidence. 
relying instead so!ely on the testimony of 
Captain James J. Humes. one of the 
pathologists who conducted the autopsy. 
Even more incredible is the disappearance 
of the brain, the slides. and some of the 
photographs. which were alleged to have 
been turned over to the National Archives 
by the Bethesda Naval Hospital. 
Both Dr. Perry and Captain Humes were 
interviewed on the CBS tapes. Perry was 
asked about tf'le throat wound he'd seen 
when the President was brought to Parkland 
Hospital. His answer seemed evasive. He 
neither confirmed nor denied that he had 
thought it was an entry wound, talking in­
stead about the difficulty of making such 
a determination and the fact that his atten­
tion had been devoted to saving the Presi­
dent's life. Then the interviewer asi-;ed him 
directly whetherhe had thought at the time 
thatitwasanentrywound. "Actually, I didn't 
really give ii much thought," he replied. He 
