[ 
[ 
[ 
87D 
( 3) 
,•,. I 
·:"\ , .... 
•' ., 
.. -,r~ $Jil'C'Jf1'.0U 87. SJ<~CUHT.TY nrVESTJ(~AT!Ol-Tf 
•• I • 
Arrangement 
This index in to be- m~.intaincd in two sections, Bection .A e.:q.d 
section B. Each nection will be m;,.intn.ined nlpho.betically on 
5- by 8-inch cards. 
{a} Section J.. 
.Section A of the reserve index is desifrncd to repre:ient a 
special group of individuals who should receive priority 
consideration with respect to investigation ::.nd or o·l;her 
action following the apprehension of security index subjects~ 
I. Section .A should include those· individuals. whose sub­
versive activities do not bring them within the security 
index criteria but who, in a time of national emergency, 
are in a position to influence others Rgainst the national 
interest or are likely to furnish material financial e.id 
to subvcrsi ve elements due to their' subvf:rsi ve s.s socia­
tions and ideology. Include in thin section those indi­
viduals meeting the standards for inclusion in the reserve 
index and who fall within the following categories:· 
II. 
III. 
!
Al Professors, teachers, ::-.nd educators 
B Labor union organizers or leaders " 
C Writers, lecturers, newsmen, entertainers,. and. 
others in the mass media fiel~ 
Lawyers, doctors, and scientists 
Other potentially influ~ntial per&ons on a 
local or national level 
(F) Individuals who could potentially :furnish 
material financial aid 
Recommendations for inclusion of names in the reserve 
index (section A) • 
(A). Recommendations for inclusion of names _in section 
A of the reserve index are to be submitted to the 
Bureau by form FD-122a. A succinct summary setting 
:forth the basis for the recommendation should be 
attached to the form FD-122a. In addition, if no 
report is accompanying the recommendation, a state­
ment to that effect should appear on the page con~ 
taining the succinct sum.~ary. 
(B) Upon Burea.u npproval of recommenda.tion :for the 
inclusion o:f an individual's name in section A of 
the reserve index, two reserve ihdex cards will be 
:forwarded to the field. To these cards should' be 
added the office file number and. on the reverse 
side should be added available descriptive·data. 
One card is to be filed ill; your office, a;nd one 
card is to be filed away from headquarters city 
at ths same iocation as the extra set of security 
index cards are now stored. 
Periodic review of section A of the r~qerve inde~ 
Investigations of individuals listed in section A of 
the reserve index ~re to be brought up to date annually 
.and considered for security index status or retention 
in the reserve index. [Form FD-154 may be used for 
the annual review by amending it for use in reserve 
index cases.] This investigation should include, 
as a minimum: • • • 
. (A) Verification of re~idence and employment 
(B) Indices search and file review to determine 
whether ac1di tional investigation is warranted 
or whethe;· an interview with the individual 
is desirable 
(C) If additional investigation is conducted-or if 
there is unreported information of a sub­
versive nature contained in the files, submit· 
a_ repo:r.·t. 
42b 
10-13-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 817 
