• • 
Re: IntervieH of Retired Special A.gent (Sl.1.) 
by Senator Walter r. t!ondale and 
Staff Hcmbcrs of the Senate Select 
Committee (SSC) 
notes regarding-the activity that occurred in Atlantic City during 
the Democratic Pu:rty Nominating Convention during the summer of 
1964. Devlin advised that he did not retain any note3 but sub­
sequent to the original contaot of·him by Epstein, Devlin called 
SA John Connelly of the FBI Office in uewark in an effort to 
review any available material that might refresh his recoll~ction. 
Connelly advised Devlin that all materials and notes retained by 
thG Newark Office were forwarded to FBI Headquarters. This infor­
mation was conveyed to the intervie·wers on the occasion of the 
Uay 19, 1975, interview. 
Devlin also was asked if he ever questioned the tech­
nical coverage of King inasmuch as it appeared to be for 
political rather than security reasons. Devlin replied that he 
had no reason to question the technical coverage of King. He 
also was asked if he personally met t:ri th Ur. Cartha DeLoach of 
the FBI '"Jhile both uere in Atlantic City. Devlin advised. he 
could not recall whether he actually met DeLoach, pointing out 
that SA Biliie D. Williams was assigned the liaison responsibility 
,;1i th DcLoach. 
Devlin was asked ·whether he had contacted the FBI 
folloi-7ing his original interview by Epstein on April 25, 
1975. Devlin advised he had reported the intervie·w by 
Epstein to the FBI Office in Newark, Hew Jersey. He furthar 
advised that subsequent to this, he ro.cei vcd a call from Nm-,ark 
Aasistant Special Agent in Charge Herbert Clough who informed 
him that should he be contacted in the future, and should he 
feel he needed to consult with FBI officials, he could call the 
Legal Counsel Division, FBI Headquarters, in Washington, D~ c., 
collect, for such consultation. Senator Mondale desired to know 
t1ho Devlin saw upon his arrival in Washington, D. C. , on the 
morning of Uay 19, 1975, and specifically 't·1hat instructions he 
received from the FBI. Devlin advised Senator Mondale that 
- 3 -
NW 38296 Docld:329895'88 Page 127 
