( 
( 
( 
[ 
.A.. 
SECif.ION 107. )ECURITY INF0Rt1ANTS 
-
-', 
C 01-TFID: ~ J }JAL 
•• 
SOURCES 107A - B 
DE:i<'IlHTIONS 
1. Sec:urity inform?..nt 
Indlvid~al acti7ely engaged •in obtainirig and furnishing current infor­
mabion on security matters exclusively for Bureau and whose identity 
muet be protected. Such person should be a member or attcnc1 meetings 
of a subversive organization~ such a.s the Communist Pa.rty;'or be in 
such a position rclBtive to a subversive organization 7 or ~spionage 
activities or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
prinoi"{>al tha·I; he is able to obtain and does provide cu:i·rent infor­
mation of ·v-alue. 
2. Potential security informant 
Individual in a position to become active in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is m~king 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be 
ill a posi·l;ion actively to obtain and furnish cu.rren'l; information ·l;o 
Bureau. 
·3. Double agent 
A specialized type of security informant; a person who is coope-rating 
with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreign 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's guida~ce. 
4. Confidential source 
An, indi-vidual who on a confidential basis furnishes information ?.vailable 
to him through his present position. Examples woula. be: bankers, telephone 
cornpo.ny employees, American employees of foreign official establishment~, 
[and)employees of the United Nations Secret~riat. These individuals roake 
no concerted effort on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain and 
furnish information readily available to them. 
B. SOURCES m, POTENTIAL SECURITY INFORYuUiTS 
Informants should be de"veloped on all organizations and individuals ·that 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown tha·b potential 
informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal investi­
gative activity. Live informan·I; coverage depends for the most part upon 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual .Agents and SACs. For assist.ance 
in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested: 
l. Evaluati~n of 
a. Complainants in security matters 
b. PerJons interTiewed in connection with security cases 
c. Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement~ loss of interest, inactivity, finanoiel hard­
ship, or other rep~diation of party loyB~ty 
d. Bureau applicants as possible informants 
e •. Personal friends and contac~s of Special Agents and· other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidential sources, and contacts on con-
tinuous basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
3. Review of reserve index 
4. As certain possibilities of reactivating former confidential informard;s. 
[ 5. [Deletecl] . 
6. Review factionalism sec·l;ion of f.ile• on Communist ·Pa1··cy, USA. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffection 
on the part of Communist Party members. They, of course~ should not be 
informed as to the purpose of the in_quiry. 
8. Review of files on comm.unis t front organizations looking for indi vidm,.ls 
who have been associated with only one or two fronts or who atte::ided only 
a. few meetings of a. front. Such individuals freq1.1.en·Uy are innocent of 
• communist propensities, yet they have ~ basis for cul ti•vating the 
[. acquaintance of party members, 
3 
10-14-64 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1372 
