13-00000 
The Watergate Crime 
Articles Published in Computers and Automation August 1972 to September 1973 
Inventory of Titles, Authors, and Summaries 
August 1972 
33 The June 1972 Raid on Democratic Party Head-
communicado and a prisoner - reparted on by 
Mrs. Mitchell and the editor of Parade magazine. 
quarters - Part 1 -z, 
by Richard E. Sprague, l;tartsdale, N.Y. The Watergate Crime: An Eye-Witness Account 
A report on five men who have numerous con-
~;:: nections with the Republican Party, the White 
House, the Central Intelligence Agency, anti-Castro 
Cubans, and plans for the assassination of President 
John F. Kennedy, and who were arrested seeking 
18 
26 
29 
24 
26 
to bug Democratic National Headquarters at 2:30 
a.m., June 17, 1972. 
October 1972 
The Raid on Democratic Party Headquarters (The 
Watergate Incident) - Part 2 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. 
A report on further developments in the June 1972 
raid by James McCord, Bernard Barker, and others, 
on National Democratic Party Headquarters, and 
implications affecting a number of Republican 
leaders and President Richard M. Nixon. 
November 1972 
Bernard L. Barker: Portrait of a Watergate Burglar 
by Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor, Computers and 
Automation 
How a cloak and dagger operative and right-wing 
activist, who was caught as a burglar in the Water­
gate Hotel offices of the Democratic National 
Headquarters, looks at himself and his line of work. 
Walter Sheridan - Democrats' Investigator? or Re­
publicans' Countermeasure? 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. 
Walter Sheridan, recently employed by the Demo­
cratic National Committee to investigate the 
Watergate Incident, may actually be a "counter­
measure" by the Republicans to defeat the Demo­
cratic investigation. 
December 1972 
The Raid on Democratic Party Headquarters (The 
Watergate Incident) - Part 3 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. 
A report on further developments in the June 
1972 raid by James McCord, Bernard Barker, and 
others, on National Democratic Party Headquarters, 
and implications affecting a number of Republican 
leaders and President Richard M. Nixon. 
Martha Mitchell and the Watergate Incident 
by Martha Mitchell, the magazine Parade, and 
Richard E. Sprague 
How Martha Mitchell (wife of former Attorney 
GfmP.r~I .lnhn l\,1itrholll ,.,., .. ,...,.1-+,...j __ .., •·--• :-
by Alfred Baldwin, 3rd 
A round-by-round account by an ex-FBI agent, an 
employee of the Republican Committee to Re­
elect the President, of what went on while five 
men burglarized the Watergate offices, June 17, 
2:30 a.m. Baldwin's main assignment was listening 
to bugged calls to the Democratic National Com­
mittee. 
January 1973 
33 President Richard M. Nixon, the Bay of Pigs, and the 
Watergate Incident - Part 4 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. 
How President Nixon lied in 1960 about the plans 
for the Bay of Pigs Invasion; and is suppressing in 
1972 the investigations of the Watergate Incident~ 
March.1973 
26 The Watergate Crime and the Cover-Up Strategy -
Part 5 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. 
A report on the trial of E. Howard Hunt, James 
McCord, Bernard Barker, and four other persons 
for their raid on Democratic National Committee 
Headquarters in June 1972 using funds of the Re­
publican Committee for the Re-Election of the 
President; and the strategies of cover-up that 
have been employed. 
June 1973 
26 Watergate: What More is There to Hide? - Part 6 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. 
How investigation into the Watergate Crime is 
leading to ramifications and implications, and 
what are some more of the now hidden connec· 
tions that may be revealed. 
August 1973 
36 Lessons of Watergate - Part 7 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N. Y. 
The collection of Watergate Crimes; the anatomy 
of a "Really Big American Cover-Up"; other 
cases of "Really Big American Cover-Ups"; and 
the implications and ramifications. 
September 1973 
37 Six Parallels of 25 Years Ago 
by Alger Hiss 
How an establishment attacked Alger Hiss -. 
