14-00000 
~ 
~ 
I i • ••. 
.. 
'SEP 22 '98 01:46PM ( 
.. 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE llECOR.D 
SUB.JECT: South Vietnam Situation 
25 November 1963 
ATTENDANCE: The Preaident, Secretarle ■ Ruak, McNamara, Ball, 
Meeert . .Bu11dy and McCone, Ambassador Lodge 
tJ~ 1-1.4 ~ - ?I P.JI l-,,11.c Offt.t.• 1' lfL' , 
1. Ambassador Lodge reported that the chanae in goverrunent 
ha.d been an improvement, that he waa hopeful over the outlook, that 
he expected a 1peedup of the war, he thought by February or March 
we would ■ee marked pro1reaa. Lodge stated that we were not 
involved ·m the coup, though we put preaaurea on the South Vietnamese 
governm.eot to cha.nge lte course and thoae preesuree, moat 
particularly on indications of withdrawal by 1965, ancoul'aged the 
coup. Lodge stated that there were indications that North Vietnam. 
m.lght be intereated in arrangeznenta which would be of a nature 
sathfactory to ua. He did not elaborate. He that that everybody 
was vary happy after the coup and showed some pictures of the 
crowd■ in Sa.lgou. He mentioned that Oen, Don would be here and 
that those talking with him. ■hould tnfiuence hlm. to put on all the 
preaaure be could. He spoke moat highly of the Papal delegate and 
hla intention to aee the Pope on Wednesday. He carried with him a 
letter from the Papal Delegate and also from. the Bishop of Saigon, 
apparently praising the actions in upsetting the Diem aovernm.ent. 
Lodge aald he saw danger ■ of an antl-Chrhtian move and this was 
bis purpoae ln aeelng tho Pope. Ho made a point that Bishop ~hue 
had engaged in aerioua peraecutlona involving the imprisonment ol 
a great many people, including three Catholic priests, He aleo made 
the point that Can, Diem'• brother, also engaged in a variety of 
activltiee of persecution and the execution of individuals and that 
Ca.n had, on hie.own premises, a burial ground for hia victim,. 
Lodge •aid that we were in no way responsible for the death of Diern 
and Nhu, that had they followed his advice, they would be a.live 
today. He said that he aavecl Can from aaaa1aination and that 
Bishop Thuc wa• out of Sa.lgon under orders from the Papal 
delegate. (Note: I Cf18Stion whether the Papal. delegate can order 
a Bishop out of a country.) The tone of Ambassador Lodge'• J 
statements wel'e optirniatic, hopeful, and left the President with 
the impression that we are on the road to victory. 
