- • 
.:.. . 
' . 
.. 
' SUBJECT: Foreign Support Fqr Activities Planned to Disrupt 
or Harass the Republican National Convention 
1. There are only limited indications thus far of 
foreign efforts to inspire, support or take advantage 0£ 
activities designed to disrupt or harass the National 
Convention of the Republican Party in San Diego, 21-23 
August 1972. ~ 
2. Some American participants at the Soviet-controlled 
·world Asser:~bly for Peace and Independence of the Pe op-le s of 
Indochina, held 11-13 February 1972 in Paris/Versailles, 
attempted unsuccessfully to include a call for international 
demonstrations to take place at the time of the Republican 
National Convention. A representative of the San Diego 
'Convention Coalition (SDCC), one of the domestic action 
groups tctr~c t t·ing on the Republican Conven tic a, requested 
, the .Ar:1erican Delegations' Steering Committee .2t the World 
Assembly to include a specific call for international 
support of activities against the Republican convention 
in their proposal to the Action Cor.:;nission of the. 1·;orld 
Assembly. This request, ho~cver, was droppc~ as too 
divisive by the Steering Coc□ ittce, despite initial indica­
tions that the proposal woul<l be taken to the floor of 
the Asser:1bly. 
3. John LENNON, a British subject, has provided 
financial support to Project 11YES", which in turn paid 
·--.the travei expenses to the World Assembly of, a representa-
tive of leading anti\~·ar activist Rennie DAVIS. (D..-\\'IS' repre­
sentative is tentatively planning to assist in preparations 
for disruptive actions at the San Diego Convention.) 
Pr.oj ec t "YES" is an adjunct to another LE:-:~o:;- supported pro­
ject, the Election Year Strategy Information Center (EYSIC), 
of which Rennie DAVIS is a key leader, which was set up to 
direct New Left protest activities at the ReFublican 
National Convention. In Paris Rennie DAVIS' representative 
to the World Assembly met at least once with officials of 
the Provisional Revolutionary Government of.$outh Vietnam; 
it is not kno,,·n if the Republican National Convention ,~·as 
discussed. 
\ t • 
I'. 
\ •. 
L NW 381;96 Docld:32989624 Page 146 
. . . .. 
j 
