87D. 
r 
( 
. \ 
87. 
I 
SECUHI'l'Y INVESTIGATl_v. 
.Advise the Bureau promptly in form suitab-le for dissemi­
nation of a rubject 1 s return from travel abroad in those 
instances in which stops have been placed with security 
services abroad through the agencies listed above, In 
instances in which an individu?..J. against whom stops haY.e 
been placed has traveled to any country behind the Iron 
Curtain~ the Bureau shall also be furnished at that time 
with recommendations as to the desirability of interview 
of such person and with ad.vice as to whether additional 
investigation concerning him is contemplated. In the event 
.such an interview is authorized, 'it shall be conducted 
promptly and the case shall not be closed until such inter­
view is had a~d the results thereof submitted in report 
form. 
In some instances a security investigation of a subject not 
yet included in the security index may be in progress at 
the time it is found that the subject has recently departed 
for a foreign country. If the evidence developed at that 
time warrants the inclusion of the subject in the security 
index were it not for the fact that he is outside the U. S., 
form FD-122 should be submitted recommending his inclusion 
in the unavailable section of the security index. After all 
initial investigation is completed, the subject•::: case will 
be handied the same as those of other subjects of a similar 
status who are included in the unavailable section a; out of 
• the coun_try. 
If the subject is an alien who has been deported or has 
otherwise permanently departed from the U, s .. h·e should 
not be included in the security index. 
When it is determined that a security index subject has 
departed for a foreign country, his secu~ity index oard 
shall be placed \n the unavailable section and his case 
handled in acoor>.~ce with the instr~otions set forth 
under 87D 7b (6) ,b1·IV. 
(5). Investigative techniques 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 
l____ 
• 'While it is not possible to enumerate all investigative techniques 
which can and should be empioyed in these investigations, there 
are certain proven techniqu~s whiQh have been used with con-
tinued success and should be applied wherever possible. 
{a} File reviews . • • . 
Upon the initiation of a security investigation of an 
individual, check the office indices and review files 
thoroughly for any pertinent information on record showing 
b~okground and subversive activity of each individuil 
subject, Include such information in the initial investi­
gative report. 
Once a main-~ecurity file has been opened for an individual, 
subsequent information received concerning him should be 
channelized to that file, The reference cards pertaining 
to the subject should be consolidated in the indices 
after each check and review of files has been made, 
(b) -Security informants 
Sucoess of security investigations of indi~iduils is 
primarily dependent upon a broad confidential informant 
coverage within every phase of subversive activity. 
Information and evidence developed through such sources 
are unsurpassed in value because of _possible use not only 
for intelligence purposes bit also as admissible evidence. 
895 
34 
7-15-60 
