13-00000 
. . 
• 
., . 
. . . 
Mr. DULLES . .Smuggling cases? 
Mr. McCONE. Smuggling cases. But I. believe that something could be done. 
I call to the attention of this Commission one of the laws relating to atomic 
energy, namely the Atomic Weapons Reward Ac;t of 15 July 1~ wherein a 
substantial reward is offered for the apprehension of persons responsible for 
the clandestine introduction or manufacture in the United States of such nuclear 
material or atomic weapons. It is s~ggested that the Commission may wish to 
recommend that original but similar ·legislation be enacted which would induce 
individ_uals to furnish information bearing on Presidential security by offering 
a substantial reward and preferential treatment. Substantial reward could 
represent a significant inducement even to staff officers and personnel of secret 
associations and stat.e security organs abroad who are charged with assassina­
tion and sabotage. We have information that such personnel and police state 
apparatuses have expressed and, in certain cases, acted upon their repugnance 
for such work and for the political system which requires such duties to be 
performed.. 
Mr;-RANKIN. Is it your belief, Mr. McCone, that the methods for exchange 
of information between intelligence agencies of the Government could be mate­
rially improved. 
Mr: McCoNE. I think the exchange between the Central Intelligence Agency 
and the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the Secret Service is quite adequate. 
I am not informed as to whether the exchanges between the Secret Service 
and the FBI are equally adequate. I have not gone into that. I w~uld ·have 
no means .to know. Certainly it is most important that it be done. 
Mr. DULLES. Looking back now that you have the full record, do you feel that 
• you received from the State Department adequate information at the time t;hat 
they were aware of Oswald's defection and later activities in the Soviet·Union, 
did you get at the tiine full· Information from the State Department on those 
particular subjects? 
Mr. McCoNE. Well, I am not sure that we got full information, Mr. Dulles. 
The fact is we had very little information in our files. 
Mr. HELMS. It was probably minimal 
Representative FoBD. Why did that happen? 
Mr. HELMS. I am not sure, Mr. For.cl. I can only assume that the State 
Department had a limited amount. Interestingly enough, it is far enough back 
now so that it's very hard to find people who were in the Moscow Embassy 
at .the time familiar with the case, so in trying to run this down one comes 
to a lot of dead ends and I, therefore, would not like to hazard any guess. 
RepresentaUve' FoBD. Whose responsibility is it; is it CIA's responsibilf.ty 
to obtain the information, or State Department's· responsibility to supply it to 
Central Intelligence _and to others. • 
Mr. McCoNE. With respect to a U.S. citizen who~goes abroad, it is the respon- • 
sibillty of the State Department through its various echelons, consular service 
and embassies and so forth, 
For a foreigner coming into the United States, who might be of suspicious 
character, coming here for espionage,. subversion, assassination and other acts 
of violence, we would, and we do exchange this information immediately with 
the FBI. 
Representative FoRo: But in this particular case, Oswald in tlie Soviet Union, 
whose responsibility was it to transmit the information, whatever it was. to 
the Central Intelligence Agency? 
Mr. McCONE. Well, it would be the State Department's· responsibility to do 
that. · Whether there really exists an order or orders that information on an 
Anierican citizen returning from a foreign country be transmi~ted to CIA, 
I don't believe there are such regulations which exist. 
Mr. HELMS. I don't believe they do, either. 
Mr. McCONE. I am not sure they should. 
Representative FoBD. It wouldn't be your recommendation that you, the head 
of Central Intelligence Agency, should have that information? 
Mr. DULLES. In a case of an American defecting to a Communist country, 
shouldn't you have it? 
Mr. McCoNE. Certainly certain types of information. What we ought to be 
126 
