[ 
07G SECTION 107. SEC~R, INFORMANTS[AND CONFIDENTIAL S'RCES] 
(6) After informant authenticates his statement, contacting Agent 
should prepare a cov_er sheet, form FD-306, which should be stapled 
to it and thereafter the statement should be handled as a 
written one in accordance with instructions set out in 2, a, 
( 10 L and ( 11). 
(7) Oral information furnished by informant purely of lead value 
- should be incorporated in an office memorandum by the Agent 
and should not be initialed by the informant or. exhibited to 
him or treated as evidence. 
3. Transmission[of information] 
a. Statements should be personally delivered to contacting Agent·by 
informants whenever possible. Careful consideration should be 
given to full security of all such personal contacts. 
b. They should never be mailed to field office or resident agency. 
c.. If they cann:o·t be obtained personally by contacting Agent, obtain 
confidential post office boxes for their receipt. 
a. Confidential post office boxes should be obtained under fictitious 
names and not under names of persons who may be listed in post office 
directory. • . 
e. Hore than one informant may send statements to a specific post office 
box, but consideration should be given to obtaining post office boxes 
in different post office stations to prevent suspicion on part of 
post office employees. 
f. Envelope enclosing statement should have return ·address of another 
confidential post office box obtained under a ~ictitious name in the 
same manner as a. 
g. Statements should be collected at post office boxes regularly, 
but time of pickup should be varied. Work out system of rotation 
whereby same Agent or Agents will not appear at same post office box 
for any extended period of time. 
h. When informant receives information of -vital and immediate interest 
to Bureau, he should furnish it as promp·l;ly as pos-si ble to contacting 
Agent or office by most appropriate means of communication. Office 
should take any necessary action without delay. 
4. Handling of lead information 
a . .All lead information obtained from informant must be run out to 
a logical conclusion. 
b. If there is only partial name of individual or meager descriptive 
data, and if there is sufficient data available to do so, file should 
be opened and assigned to effect an identification and to take any 
necessary action. 
c. If there is insufficien·I; information to warrant opening case, 
a tickler card should be prepared to follow with the informant and 
take other logical steps in an effort to o1)tain additional identifying 
data concerning the individual. Tickler cards should be restricted 
to information which would warrant investigation if an identity is 
established. This will eliminate inconsequential items, but at the 
same time definite steps mus·I; .be taken to run out affirmative informa­
tion. If no identification is made after reasonable effort, prepare 
memorandum for informant I s subfile. If an identifioa•bion is m«.de, 
a file should be opened and any necessary action taken in connection 
therevd th. 
5. [HandJ.ing docu.mentary]material furnished[by informants] 
a. Pamphlets and similar documen·l;ary material furnished by informants 
should have placed thereon the informant's code name or code symbol 
( no·!; his true name or his permanent symbol number). 
b. Informant should affix date he received the material. If informant 
cannot recall date of receipt, the date he furnished material should 
be affixed. 
c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, 
permanent symbol number of informant, fj,le numbers:, indexing symbols, 
etc., should be placed on documentary material by Agents or clerical 
personnel. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1002 12 
) 
) 
