For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief af Staff for Intelligence. 
1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT 2. DATE SUBMITTED 
6 Februar1J 1972 
3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER 
4. REPORT OF FINDINGS 
~' (ft') On 4 February 1972, Raymond Ro Leal, lLT, 459-78-6563, Platoon 
~eader, 164th Military Police Company (MPC), Milsau (NGA), Federal Republic 
of Germany (FRG), APO New York 09059, and Ronald A.. iY.Jargulies, SP4, 220-48-
5408, Senior lV'J.P, 164th NPC, were interviewed separately regarding an incident 
of possible Counter-Intelligence interest, and both stated substantially 
as follows: 
~~ On 3 February 1972, Sources were in the Lord Nelson Bar, Datteln 
(LC8424), FRG, with other members of their unit, lLT Wood and an unidentified 
Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO), when they were approached by the Disc Jockey 
of the bar, who introduced himself only as John, and asked them if there was 
a particular song they would like to hear. After playing the record requested, 
John walked back over to Sources and sat down with them. John began asking 
them. military related questions almost as soon as he sat down. John asked 
them what unit they we1·e from. He wanted to know where they came from 
and where they were going. He asked them why they were in Datteln. John 
stated that he knew who the Security Sergeant at C Team, 66th USA Artillery 
Detachment, Datteln, APO New York 09Cf/8, was. When John did not receive the 
answers to his Questions he stated that he knew what they were doing in 
Datteln. John stated that Datteln was a dead town, but that things were 
hoping in Westkirchen (MC3549), FRG. The site that the convoy had just come 
from. John then listed every site the convoy had just come from. John 
identified the sites by unit designation, location, APO number, and telephone 
number of the orderly room. John was completely accurate in every detail. 
John stated that he knew what they had brought to Datteln and knew how long 
they were going to stay. John talked about how easy it was to get information 
out of people by using indirect questions. John said that about four years 
ago he had a Lieutenant that was supplying him information about the site 
at Datteln. John then boasted that he could find out anything he wanted to 
by giving ten beers to almost any German soldier at the sit~. John stated 
that he did not have any bugs so Sources and their friends did not have to 
worry about what they said. John was very interested in the jeeps in the 
parking lot near the Lord Nelsono John said that the jeeps had poor radios 
and that he had a transmitter/receiver about one foot long, three to four 
inches wide, and about six inches high, with a three foot antenna that could 
reach Brazil. When asked where such a radio could be purchased, John said 
that it was a special model and could not be bought anywhereo John mentioned 
how easy it would be to put a fake bomb into the jeeps and asked Sources if 
they checked the jeeps before starting them or just got in and started them. 
5. TYPED NAME ANO ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AOENT 
HEINZE. ICKERT, 
ltEl'LACES WO AO() 
NW 38613 Docld:34530611 Page 2 
C:.' JJ 
Page 1 of .3 Pages 
