SECRET 
III. Training 
We estimate th-at at least 1,000, and perhaps 
as many as 1,500 persons came to Cuba during 1962, 
from all the other Latin American countries with . 
the possible exception of Uruguay, to receive ideo­
logical indoctrination or guerrilla warfare train­
ing or both. More have gone in 1963 despite the 
limited facilities for reaching Cuba at present. 
The largest contingents have come from Vene­
zuela, Peru, Ecuador, Argentina, and Bolivia. Some 
of the courses are as short as four weeks, designed 
to let it appear that the trainees had merely at­
tended some conference or celebration and done a 
little sightseeing. Other courses last as long as 
a year, and may include intensive training in such 
things as sabotage, espionage, and psychological 
warfare. 
We have devoted a great deal of effort to 
monitoring Latin American travel to Cuba at the 
main jump-off points such as Mexico and Curacao. 
(Curacao has not been used since October, but KLM 
may soon resume flights.) The Cubans go to great 
lengths to conceal the fact that some of these 
trainees have ever been to Cuba, and how long they 
stayed. However, we know a great deal about this 
travel from our penetrations of the Communist par­
ties, from controlled agents we have been able to 
maneuver into the training courses in Cuba, and 
from cooperative travel control authorities in 
Latin American countries. The Cuban Embassy in 
Mexico City gives the trainee a _visa on a separate 
piece of paper, so that his passport, when he goes 
home, will only show that he has been in Mexico. 
We have a record, however, of those who fly on to 
Cuba. In other cases, particularly in the case of 
travel through Montevideo before the quarantine, 
the Cubans furnished passports u·nder other names 
for travel by way of Curacao. 
We derive some of our figures from travel con­
trol points, and another set from the information 
we receive from penetration agents of established 
reliability in the Communist parties. Some of the 
-5-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 11 
) 
/ 
