13-00000 
Virtue, in Spite of Erroneous Conceptions 
J. P. Frankel 
Dean of the Faculty 
Harvey Mudd College 
Claremont, Calif. 91711 
, ., 
''We think of knowledge as knowing how-to-do-it, wisdom as knowing whether-to-do-it, 
and virtue (if the answer is yes) as doing-it;" 
In this article, I mean virtue in a much narrower 
sense than the theologians, and I mean erroneous con­
ceptions in a much broader sense than planners of 
parenthood. 
Let me first speak of virtue. 
We think of knowledge as knowing how-to-do-it, 
wisdom as knowing whether-to-do-it, and virtue as 
doing it. In this sense, at least in the universi­
ties, we think of scientists as knowing, the human­
ists as wise, and the engineers and other techni­
cians (doctors, nurses, social workers and the like) 
as·virtuous, that is, the do-ers, 
The World is Full of Problems 
Now the world is full of problems where we need to 
know bow to do it, whether to do it, and (if the an­
swer is yes) to do it. Each of us can make his own 
list of pressing social problems: pollution, arms 
limitation, or population growth. Fortunately we are 
reasonably well supplied with scientists, humanists, 
and technicians, To understand why we still have 
these urgent problems, let us turn to erroneous con­
ceptions, 
The erroneous conceptions I wish to deal with 
here are: 
That it is within the power of scientists and 
engineers to choose to work only on projects 
"in the public interest," and 
That the market place is where one discovers 
the public interest. 
Choice of Projects to Work on 
Critics seem to assume that scientists and engi­
neers are free to choose their projects, and complain 
that they fail to consider the real public interest. 
Scien~ists may be free to choose their work, but they 
Based on remarks delivered on Joseph C. Wilson Day, November 10, 
1972, llt the University of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y. 
have no more to say about how their discoveries are 
used than Christopher Columbus did. 
As for the engineers, they have more to say about 
the uses of science, since they are the ones who 
choose which of science's ideas will be applied, but 
they in turn have almost no way, at present,·of iden­
tifying the public interest, and even less in determ­
ining which products or process~s should be produced 
to serve it. 
A Moratorium on Science? 
We will return to this matter of choice, but first 
le-t' s eliminate 1rom the list of reasonable al terna­
ti ves facing society, the silly and dangerous notion 
of a moratorium on science, 
The key notion in the moratorium idea is that if 
you can't control it, you shouldn't do it. There­
fore, we are urged, don't do any more science until 
(presumably) the humanists devise suitable controls. 
The trouble with this kind of conceptual contracep­
tion is two-fold. In the first place, as Paul Salt­
man has pointed out eloquently, you can't forbid 
knowing any more than you can forbid writing poetry. 
Science can be slowed down, of course, by driving it 
underground, but even if we slowed it way down, there 
is no evidence that we have either knowledge or wis­
dom enough to control its application, unless we 
change some of our habits. 
Ignorance and Fear Lead to Irrationality 
One habit that needs correction has to do with the 
thinking and feeling processes of the humanists -
the philosophers, if you will - who presumably are 
to show us how to behave, Too often thiy are igno­
rant or fearful of science and engineering. What one 
is ignorant or fearful° of, he cannot deal with in a 
rational way. There is no possibility that we can 
learn to control what we do by some non-rational 
process, such as satori, using mystically-fashioned 
playing cards, etc, Control over what we do will 
