13-00000 
.Page 2'-'J;;. 
{jefore was not-found. Again after only a few weeks, the second sensor devfc 
stopped working. This time the failure was attributed to a mechanical· 
malfunction. 
At this point, the Agency gave up on mountain-top monitoring of the 
Communist Chinese missile .Program, turning to other systems and new, improved 
satellites for acquiring the infonnation it was se king. The Indians were 
• thanked and compensated for their cooperation. j 1he American climbers were 
presented with secret medals by a grateful, but disappointed, CIA. 
[!he fertile imaginations of the mfs&T experts during the following 
., 
years produced many more unique coilrction schemes aimed at solving the 
mysteries of China's strategic missile program. Most eventually proved to be 
unworkable, and at least one entailed a frighteningly high-risk potentfal. 
The silliest of them all, however, called for the creation of a small one-man , 
.( airplane that could theoretically be packaged in two large suitcases. In 
concept, an agent along with the suitcases would somehow be ·infiltrated into 
the denied area where, after perfonning his espionage mission, he would • 
assemble the aircraft and fly to safety over the nearest friendly border. 
Even the chief of the Clandestine Services refused to have anything to do with 
this scheme, and the projectydied on the dra\'ling boards. 
1,. 
3 
.1 
G 
b 
A second system was a device, long ~nd tubular like a rocket, that could@ 
=--
c-. 
be dropped by a U-2 or another aircraft near the missile test site, its fall 
~lm-1ed by a parachute so that the device would penetrate only two or three 
feet into the ground on impact. Afterwards, the system, anlaerial rising from 
its top, would activate itself and perform its electronic sensing tasks. Still 
later, the device would transmit its findings to a listening post, most 
likely a circling aircraft. The need for secret air penetration deep into a 
foreign and h6stfle power to deliver the monitoring device and additional 
similar fligh~s to retrieve the data collected and stored by the machine 
r .. i <:Art c:Prin11c:: n11Pc:tinnc: _.c: tn thP c::vc:tP::t 1 c: 11H1 i tv ;inrt wnrth. . ThP_ ~S.9-T J__ 
