) . 
' • I 
I 
j. 
• SECRET 
SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE 
Activities with "Slava" 
Jaffe was asked if he could recall ?-,ny Unite·d 
States groups visi ti...n.g Russia in ·which "Slava" expressed an 
interest. Jaffe mentioned the Time~Life Group and the 
Business International Group. He was'asked if "Slava" 
. expre$_sed an interest in. any group connected with the Nuclear 
Test-Ban Treaty. He answered in the affi~mative and stated, 
"They expressed interest in what people were saying. I said, 
· 'everybody was happy to see it.' 11 Jaffe continued: "I went 
up with Vice President (Hubert) Humphrey and we went to Gorki 
Park and interviewed Russians." As Humphrey talked to the 
Russians, Jaffe recorded the interviews on his tape reco.rder. 
A translator from the American Embassy accompanied Humphrey 
an.d Jaffe. • • • 
Jaffe then stated: "I was never asked in advance 
to get anything; always after the fact." J"aff e was asked if 
"Slava" ever made inquiries concerning·American groups prior ~. 
, t~ their _arriyal;_ in Russia. He replied: "A .coupl~ of times:··. V 
he would say, 'a group is coming in. Do you think. _you will be 
c~v~ring it? 1 I was never asked specifically to do anything." 
• ·-· 
Jaffe was asked if "Slava"·ever asked anything 
about being·contacted by the FBI. He answered in the affirma­
tive and indicated that this occurred ·two or three months 
, after he met . "Slav·a". Jaffe said he told "Slav a" that FBI 
agents indicated tliey were aware that. he "bumped into these 
guys" and "sees a lot of Russians" and they requested him to 
-~urnish informationroout his Russian contacts. Jaffe said he 
deliberately lied to "Slava", telling him uI told these people 
(FBI) 1 'Sorry, I am a nev1s man. These are my sources.'" Jaffe 
said he did not know whether or not "Slava" believed him; how­
ever, he never questioned Jaffe's comments. 
l 
i 
1 
l 
! 
l 
l 
l 
·1 
Jaffe was asked if he was ever warned that United ·l 
States authorities might be aware of his association with "Slava.rr J 
He replied in the affirmative, stating, "He called me for lunch ~ 1 
and to·ld me that -..t guy defected from Geneva who worked with him l 
('Slava') and knew of several of his contacts and I was one of I 
them;" "Slava" then told Jaffe, "If you are ever asked anything ; 
about me, deny a~y knowledge of me." . • J: 
SECRE'r 
60 
I 
l i 
! 
! 
i 
NW 38316 Docld:32989104 Page 331 
