--~----------------------------""'1 
• 
SECRET 1€_co"£i} (!.) 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. wannall 
Re: Senstudy 75 
• 
Durin~ the period of these investigations it was 
determined that Embassy of Israel officials recruited U. S. 
scientists for emp:J.oyment in Israel, and extensive liaison y1as 
established with individuals within U. S. scientific, political, 
academic and industrial communities. As an example, Hermoni 
developed close contact with Dr. Zalman Mordecai Shapiro, Director 
of Nuclear r.Iaterials and Equipment Corporation, Apollo, 
.!lertnsylvania, a firm which processes uranium 235 for nuclear 
reactors. (SJ . 
The basis of the discontinuation of the sensitive 
technical source coverage on the Israeli Embassy in 1972 was 
a U. S. State Department directive. (5) · 
During this period it was also determined that the 
IIS was attempting to penetrate the United Nations (UN) and 
Arab diploma tic establishments in New Yorl~ City. An informant 
of the New York Office, who previously engaged in intelligence 
activities in the Middle East for the Israelis between 1955 and 
1960 while workini at the UN, was recontacted by Israeli intel­
ligence in August, 1968, while visitin~ Israel. This informant 
had access at the UN to extremely sensitive information from the 
office of the Secretary General. Israeli intelli~ence had 
directed him to obtain and furnish, throuah a mail drop in 
Belgium, interoffice communications between the Secretary General 
of the UN and his undersecretaries, and information recarding 
the I:Iiddle Ea st, particularly rel a tin(j to Arab matters. (s) 
In Illay, 1968, a not her informant of the New York Off ice,, 
who previously resided in the Middle East and was active in the 
E~yptian intelli~ence service, addressed a personal letter to 
General Dayan of Israel in which he expressed his opinion the 
Israelis should force the Egyptians to surrender and sign a peace 
treaty. Informant was subsequently contacted in New York City by 
an Israeli intelliience agent who furnished his name as u:,Iichael 11 
who showed informant a copy of his letter .to Dayan. "Michael" 
subsequently "recruited" informant and furnished him a mail drop 
in Italy. "~Iichael" instructed informant to obtain employment at 
an Arab diploma tic establishment i,n New York City in order to (~ 
CONTINUED - OVER 
SECRETl{icoii}(§) 
- s -
