I .. 
I 
1. 
D, 
( 
( 
SECTJ.,·'.4 107 esnCURITY HT1''0pj1A1~TS AND cmrrn.:HL SOURCES 107C - D 
8, Potential security informants in espionage ana. foreign rrnt:i.oni·lity cases 
J:1any times present spec:1.al proble:ns v,ric'lc limit or govern the r-cope of 
the initial investigation, (See instructions re contact caies and 
deseco program, sccti on 105K, 6b anrl 6h, volume IV,. o:f this ma1iual.) 
However, where practical the above items should be covered, 
9. Leads to obta:i.n background data must be handled l'Jy auxiliary offices 
within 30 days. 
10. Investigation as outlined above must be completed prior to any request to 
guide, direct, and develop an individual as a potent:ial inforn1.ant. 
INTERVIEWS _.AND DJilYELOl'M::!NT OF POTEN'.CIAL SECURITY INFORY1.AN'.1?S 
1. m,_en background information ob·l;aincd as described under subsection C, 
transml"i; results to Bureau in the same numerical sequence as set out 
in subsection C, and request authority to[designaLelindividuaJ as a[Bureau­
approvod potential·J security infcrm::>.nt[and proceed w:i th h:i s dcve] opmen-1,.] 
2. W-nen authority is granted by Bureau, steps should be taken to develop 
his potentiality and he should be made aware of Bureau policy. 
3. Carefully plan initial interviews as to time and location to prevent any 
embarrassment to Bureau. • 
4. Do not interview female potentials in their own homes or apartments unless 
necessary and all such jntervieNs in thoir residences should be conducted 
by two .Agents after specific approval of the superior in the field 
office responsible for development of informants. This ins·truction is 
not applicable where active investigatioft ~as established that the 
potential informan·!; is of good charac·!;er, ·there is no :i.ndicatio·n of 
affiliation with subversive groupsi and there will be no embarrassment 
to ·the Bureau. 
5, Excep·t in espionage and foreign na•bionality matters where contact is· 
maintained on a periodic basis dependent on the circumstances of the 
cairn, potential informants should be contacted personally at l"east • 
once every two weeks in the same manner as informan·ts. 
6, .Advise Bureau of progress being made at leas-(; every four months. 
Letter" concerning potential informants who are not being paid on 
Bureau ,,uthorization should •be submitted on a U.ACB basis, should 
contain informative summary of information furnished during past four 
months, and must include certifications regarding potential informant 1 s 
stability and reliability and.his indoctrination against disclosure. 
These letters should follow the for;.i indicated under section 107lif, 3b, 
but should omit item (5) concerning payments and reword item (1) to 
omit reference to any payment recommendation. 
7. Post records of contacts with potential informants so that the cases will 
not become delin·quent. 
8. During interviews with potential informants, if it develops· individual 
does not have the necessary capabilities, dis6ontinue efforts. 
9, Potential informant should have contactss associates~ o·r 'possibilities 
for engaging in activity through which he can obtain and furnish current 
information of Bureau interest in security field. 
10. If individual does not have potential as above described but is willind 
to cooperate, consider indicating to him he can be of assistance if he
0 
places himself in a position where he may be able ·to obtain inforrn?.tion 
of value. In this regard, address of local headquar·t.ers of subversive 
organizations or meeting places of _subversive groups may be mentioned 
to the individual as places where it may be possible for him to obtain 
information if he so desi~es; •also, it may b~ mentionod that if he sub­
scribes to periodicals or frequents such p_laces above mentioned, he may 
be approached or an interest may be shown in him which,if developed, 
would be the means whereby he could obtain information, 
11. Inform potential informants who agree to assist the Bureau tha.t such 
assistance must be stric•tly voluntary and they are to understand that 
there is no coercion or intimidation involved. 
5 
3-15-65 
I! NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1590 
