.• 
• 
.,.,,, ,,·,, 
,J __ ,, 
..... , .. ,,.-. 
. . Aside fron producing }iigh,-:level intelligence data, these 
technical surveillances have been the source of in.formation regarding 
activities of foreign government representatives of such a nature cis 
to reguire Bureau investigative attention. In such instances active 
investigations tiave been instltuted. { 
........ )!:,'• 
l?igure~. on the actual cost of the technical surveillances 
instituted· under this proqram are n6t available. In the past the 
!Jew York. and l7asliington 111-i eld Of.fices, which have handled all of these 
technical survez"llances, have: estimated cost on a prorated basis -by 
merely dividing total salaries of·personnel handling all technical 
. surveillances by the nwniJer o.l surveillances handled at the monitor:ing. 
plants. To correct this .llo lvumher ·/$AC Letter 58-Z.V d.ated· 11-21-58 • 
ordered the .field to submit cost .figures in the future which more 
accurately portray actual cost- of· aliy particular technical surveillanceo · 
In the ne~-~t semiannual evaluation of this program, therefore, actual 
cost figures will be available.an~ u;ill be reported. 
{J). Develop;nent of _Live Sources in.Diplomati.c }Tstablishments ot 
1°ri,end l 7.f 17 0 re i qn Countries. 
. For· several· years we. have on a highly selected basis under-
taken programs to clevel op 1 i ve sources in official establ ishmen,ts of 
foreign countries when our investigative and int el 1 igence needs ·l:,Clve 
required ext ens ion of coverage. • This has always been done on the most 
careful and discreet basis cuid the procedures followed in impler:zenting 
such programs had gone forward without a hitch until Nay, 1958. In • 
that month, the Department of State clecl ined to give clearance for • 
interviews with individuals at the Pakistani, Genizan, and Turkish 
Embassies, after having grantee~-: specific clearances for investigations 
of these individuals. State Department declinations were based 
primarily on the fact· that these· three countries were friendly and 
that, i.f interviews of embassy personnel were reported to embassy 
officials, this could strain relations between. thos·e countries. and 
the ll. S. Refusal of cl earan·ce for such ·interviews was, of course, 
within the prerogative o.f the State-Department which must take into. 
considera.tion questions of international relations. llowever, the key 
point inpplved wa,s that,while that Depart1nent had issued clearances 
for investigations of prospective infon;-zcnts, its···subseql{ent denial:) 
Jor interuiews· with them had resiQted in considera'ble wasted 
