·• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
Re: Senstudy 75 
62-116395 
• 
were advised there is no plan of action in the FBI for the 
apprehension of the individuals so listed. The SSC Staff 
Members were ·advised individuals currently listed on the 
ADEX would mer~ly be afforded priority investigative attention 
during any national emergency which should occur; however, 
they would not be apprehended. SSC Staff Members also 
indicated they felt criteria for inclusion on t·he ADEX 
when first established were the same as the criteria for 
inclusion on the old SI. They were advised when the ADEX 
Program was initiated the criteria were basically the same; 
however, after closely following the matter fur a period 
of app~oximately 8 months, the criteria were reevaluated 
and revised so only individuals who were considered 
currently dangerous were to be included on the ADEX. 
SSC Staff Members were also advised that the SI was 
stored "off-line" in the Bureau's computers and as such 
was utilized in a strictly in-house operation. Informa-
tion was therefore not available to outside agencies or 
terminals tied in with the Bu~e~u•s computer system. 
Staff Members also indicated from a review of material 
made available to them it appeared as though there was 
friction between the Bureau and the Department during the 
late 1940s and early 1950s with respect to establishing 
guidelines and policy in connection with the SI and they 
desired to know what the cause of this friction was. INTD 
representatives present advised they were unaware of the 
cause of any such friction. 
Other questions similar to those above were asked 
by the SSC Staff Members and were answered by INTD personnel 
present. In addition the following nine questions were asked 
by the SSC Staff Members and Mr. Wannall indicated answers 
would be obtained and orally furnished: 
i. Was there a memorandum which established the 
RRI and does it indicate Mr. Hoover appeared bekore the 
Civil Unrest Commission? (A memorandum dated ~/3/67 from 
c. D. Brennan to Mr. w. c. Sullivan indicates :Mr. Hoover 
instructed an index be compiled of rac~al agitators; however, 
the memorandum does not indicate Mr. Hoover appeared before 
the Civ.il Unrest Commission.) 
- 2 - CONTIN(JJ.sD - OVER 
NW 38316 Docld:32989653 Page 138 
