13-00000 
(
• .. _··-:' 
: '·· ·.' 
c;I ::U9-Fl--(-rit55 
{j._ifficult p!:ase of the ~peration -- installing the mac~ine on the mountain 
• T~e first thing that had to be done was to gain the pennission of the 
top.@ 1 
2-
Indian government to implement the scheme, not a large problem in view of the 
CIA's close relations with the Indian intelligence service. The Indians not 
only agreed but, surprisingly, insisted on full participation in the project. 
Next, the Agency recruited a group of experien~ed mountain c_limbers to carry 
the device, complete wtth its nuclear powerpack, pp the mountain and put it 
_into operation. A well-known -American mountaineer who had previously conquered 
Mt. Everest, Barry Bishop, was·contacted and convinced to lead the climb. 
. . 
Overall control of the operation, however, was placed in the hands of an experienced 
CIA case officer. 
That summer, the Agency operator along with the American and Indian 
climbers, and a group of Sherpa porters, were brought together at a secret 
CIA training_ base in the Rocky Mountains to practice as a team and to learn 
how to assemble the monitoring device once they got it to the top of Nanda Devi. 
Cover for the operation was carefully built by leaking infonnation in international 
mountaineering circles that a joint American-Indian expedition was planning an 
ascent of one of the more difficult Himalayan peaks. During the winter, the 
technicians completed work on the sensor dev-ice, and a few months later the 
CIA chief of station in Delhi reported that all logistical and .cover arrangements 
with Indian intelligence had been completed. The monitoring device was 
clandestinely flown to a secure staging area in northern India by a transport 
plane from one of the Agency•s proprietary airlines. Next, the climbers were 
brought together and taken to the camp in the foothills of the Himalayas from 
where they and the Sherpas would begin their long, difficult ascent of the Nanda· 
Devi. 
(·-. Things went well at first, but after the expedition passed the snow line, the 
'· • 
Indians begun to.tire and becane irascible, claiming that they were backpacking 
too much weight. The CIA case officer r~distributed the load by convincing the 
A • ' • - • I __ ,,, - I\ 
. ,. 
