SECRET Betsy palmer 
VolUI:le X continued 
/ 
o. Ca7Jle to San Jose, Caracas, Santo Domingo, Mexico Cityk JM:1-lAVE 
Frora: Director dated 31 August 63 
Ray departing 29 Aug. on trip to first three a.d.dees. Attempting renew 
Mexican visa waiver for travel there later. Purpose of trip to solicit 
political backing, raise funds, tighten JURE organization, steeamline 
communication and establish take-off points for operations against target. 
7. Cable to Director from JMWAVE dtd 7 Sept 63, Ref WAVE 3895 ·_._ 
Reported conversation with Ray's sister-in-law wherein she stated Ray 
visited her home on 30 AUocust to say goodby. Ee ·was going to be inf'iltrated 
into Cuba and. would not see her for some: time.. Said he ,ra.s not in accord 
with certain U.S. officials on Cuban policy and has no confidence in U.S. 
ability to liberate Cuba. Said he had refused two invitations extended 
by RFK to discuss Cuban situation. 
8. Document transfer and Cross Reference dtd 10 Sept 63 UFG-03590 
Ray arrived secretly in Hiami from Puerto Rico, had secret meeting with 
Manuel Quiza Docal, IDR of Cubanos Libres, in which Quiza officially 
connected his organization to JURE for all action. Later traveled to 
N.Y.C. to purchase c-4 explosives. 
9. Cable to Director from JMHAVE dtd 11 Sept 63, report from _1lJ,1TAUP-2 
who sp<l,ke with Rogelio Cisneros on 6 Sept. Cisneros stated Ray departed 
for Costa Rica on~ Sept to interview President Orlich. Said on Ray's 
last meeting with ~1, the private secretary of President Romulo Betancourt 
was present. CisneAos said JURE objective is to have different prominent 
figures in Latin .American governments witness promises ma.de by U.S. govt. 
Cisneros-said JUFE not obligated to report milita,r,J or political plans to 
CIA but CIA obligated to deliver to JURE all military e'1uipment needed to 
fig_ht Castro. Delivery of equipment will be on high seas from a CI.A boat 
to JURE boat which will proceed to Cuba. 
10. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 6 Sept 63. Elania Germania (Bernal) 
de Paula reported she learned from her brother-in-lay, Manuel Ray1 that he 
had recently been in Europe negotiating arms purchases in Belgium. r.ontact 
man for pm-chase of Col. Ra.~n Barquin. 
11. Cable to Director from M:SXI dtd 27 Sept 1963 ffo6301 
L&.h~ approached by Julio Lanier on behalf of Ray a..:.-id JURE. Want to 
start rnili tE.r'J operation against Cuba using Me::r..ico as a base. Lanier says 
Ray receiving m.o;:iey from Venezuela. L-2 is a CIA agent - Cuoan citizen 
living in Mexico. 1'"exican station ";·rants to .... eel) him clean of overt exile 
acti \ri ty. 
SECRET 
