10 
: --, } practice for dealing with the President. (Parrott, pp. 13-14.)* 
I 
' ,-
Par~ott testified that early in 1959, President Eisenhower 
directed the Special Group to meet at least once a week to consider, approve, 
or reject all significant covert action operations (Parrott, p. 4.) 
Parrott testified it would have been "highly unlikely"_ for President 
Eisenhower to have instructed the CIA to carry out a covert operation 
without informing the Special Group. Parrott testified: 
"as evidenced in his ... revitalization ... of this Committee 
[the Special Group], [President Eisenhower was] highly conscious of 
the necessity to be protective ... in this field, and I just 
cannot conceive that [President Eisenhower] would have gone off and 
mounted some kind of covert operation onhis own. This certainly 
would not have been consistent wi t.h President Eisenhower's staff 
method of doing business ... "*lr (Parrott, ·p. 7.) 
4. John Eisenhower. John Eisenhower, President Eisenhower's 
son, served in Goodpaster's office as Assistant Staff Secretary from mid-
1958 to the end of the Eisenhower Administration. (Eisenhower, pp. 5, 9) 
He testified that his father had confided secret matters in him "to a very 
large extent". (Eisenhower, p. 3.) For example, he said that after the 
Potsdam Conference in July 1945, then Gen. Eisenhower told him that the 
United States had developed the atomic bomb at a time when this. was highly 
* Parrott testified: 
"I saw him [Allen Dulles] several times a week for hours at a time. 
I had known him somewhat before ... but I got to know him very 
well indeed during these four years. 
11 
(Parrott, p .. 13.) 
** Parrott further testified that Allen Dulles followed a practice of 
insisting upon specific orders rather than "tacit approval" and he also· 
found Bissell's assumptions regarding a circumlocutious conversation _ 
betw~en President Eisenhower and All.en Dulles "hard to believe'". 
(Parrott, p. 14.) 
NW 50955 Docld: 3242J.B9 Page 110 
