- 7 -
Pennington Matter (oontinued) 
Lee Pennington and a rnaJ1 na.i,ed Charles Wylie were the only bvo o--,nfiden:tial 
info.!JTl.ants v.ho Osborn can think of who \•:ere BTplov-eed. as such by the Office 
of Security during his tenure with that office. (This is in add.i.tin:n to 
CIA e:--rplovees and the errployees of pro':lriety investigating cortpanies t-;ho 
hnve been used as infoma.nts.) .. ~lr. tfylie was a journalist a"'"ld writer who 
was paid $10,000 per year, plus certain travel e},""Denses, by the CIA to 
act as an informant, but Vi.r. Osl:orn has no idea what kind of inforrn.ation 
he provided to the Agency in recent years. He <lees recall that many 
years ago Wylie provided inform.3.tio:n regarding the Vienna, Austria, Youth 
Festival and also sorre information gathered. on the trip he made to Japan. 
Mr. Os1::Dm states that he has never rret Lee Pennington or Charles hylie, 
nor has he e-ver talked with either of them in person or by telephone. 
(Mr. Penninaton was apparentlv terminatc-j as a CIA informant on Deceml:er 31, 
1973.) Mr. Os1::Dm states that he "started action" to terminate Wylie in 
al:out January or February 1974. He thouqht that Wvlie had never Provided 
anything to the Office of Security and tha.t it was "no tirre to have a dorrestic 
info:rmant • II 
Both Penninqton anc Wylie had been inforrriants for th2 Office of security for 
many years. Th2y had been retained. in that capacity even before Mr. Osb::>m 
became Deputy Director of Security in 1963. 
In February 1974 in oonnection with a search of files in the Office of Security 
sorre indication was tu.moo up that Mr. O.sbvrn had t:een inforrre::l in January 19 7 3 
ab::>ut the fact that Lee Pennington had entered the hare and the office of 
Jan-es Mc:Cord at the request of Mrs. McCord on January 22, 1972, to locate Md 
destroy records ,vhich would r.a-ve revealed a "link" between Mr. McCord and the 
CIA. Mr. Osl::::orn denies that he received a'1y such infonnation. The infonna­
tion was allegedly givei"1 to him by Paul Gaynor, Chief of Security Research, in 
thP Office of Security. 
Mr. Gaynor retiri=>d in 1973 at th2 requ2st of Mr. Osborn, who had bee..1 directed 
to rut a GS-16 fran his staff in a oersonnel reduction rrove. He states that 
Mr. Gaynor acceoted this request gra02fU.:ly cJild retired. 
Osl::::om and Gaynor ha\12 never discussed with each other the subject of Lee 
Pennington or the deception practiced on the FBI in August 19 72. Osl::::orn does 
not think th;::it Gavnor opened up the st.:bject, but he dces believe that G:lynor 
has testified before either one of the Congressional committees investigating 
Watergate or the Special Prosecutor's Office. 
AftPr Mr. Gajfn()r retired, Lou Vasaly of the Office of Security has ha.i·-dlc<l 
contacts with hy"lie and Pennington. 
In January or February 1974 Mr. Osoorn sent Sidney Steinbridge of the Office 
of SP-Curity to New York to terminate Mr. Wylie. 
Lee Pennington died in the fall oi: 1974 of natural catLses. He was in his 
mi.ddlc 70's. 
'IOP SO::RCT 
NW -~0955 Docld: 32203846 Page 13 
