14-00000 
. ··-=---
J 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
••• •• ·stP. 28 .' 1 998 3:33PM A N0.279 
--In a ~ore serious vein, files vere found on the 
assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and his brother 
·Robert F. Kenn@dy. These included autopsy pictures of the 
remains of Robert ~ennedy. Although Nosenko's account of 
l f the kGB'e involvement with Lee Harvey Oe~ald and his denial 
that the KGB had anything to do with the murder of John 
KGnnedy·~ight reasonably explain an Angleton interest in thQ 
John Kennedy assassination, neither Kalaris nor Blee, vith 
whom Kalaris consulted on this bizarre finding, had any idea 
why Angleton had the pictures. Neither could they think of 
any reason why it vas appropriate for CI Staff files to 
contain them. They were accordingly destroyed. 
--Angleton•s dogged pursuit, inspired by Golitsyn and 
his theories, of soviet intelligence penetration of CIA had 
led to 5ecret investigations, stretching .over a period of 
many years, of over forty 5erting CIA off.icers. Known as 
the HONETOL cases, and later so~etimes referred to in the 
popular literature as the Great Molehunt, this activity had 
produced extensive files in the CI Staff.• In addition, 
several hundred files were found on runerican citizens who 
were not CIA personnel but on whom Golitsyn analysiG had 
similarly east some sort of ~GB shado~. Among the most 
l f noteworthy of these vere files on W. Averell Harri~an and 
Henry Kissinger. Most of these files were composed entirely 
of newspaper reports and a few FBI reports. 
' I 
--Classified materials, in quantities that ultimately 
filled several paeking boxes, were eventually found in 
. 10 _;:-, Golitsyn•s possession at h1sc:pstate New Yor,;.,far~ house. 
sone of this material consisted of personnel-type files on 
CIA staff officers. Golitsyn, who resisted returning these 
dOCUl!lents when Kalaris sent people to retrieve them, 
I \ 
• The term "HONETOt,~ used as an acronym, allegedly derives 
fro~ a combination of parts ot the last name of FBI Director 
John Edgar Hoovar and the first name of Soviet KGB defector 
and AAgleton guru Anatoliy Golitsyn. 
1l 
SECRET 8ENBYT:IV£ NOFOlUI 
P.13 
