( ) 
25 August 1960 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting,. 25 August 1960 
PRESENT: Messrs. Merchant, Gray, Irwin, Dulles 
1. Congo 
Mr. Parrott outlined broadly three (or as Mr. Dulles later 
described them 112 1/2 11) operational lines that we are following in 
mounting an anti-Lumumba campaign in the Congo. These included: 
operations through the chief advisor of the Christian Trade Unions; 
the planned attempt of a Socialist labor Senator to arrange a vote of 
no coniidence in Lurnu.rnba; and a brand new contact with an alleged 
ieacier oi certain inciepenci.ent labor groups. He emphasized that the 
latter had just co~e up and that we are now in the process of assessing 
. the bona £ides and capabilities of the indi vi.dual. 
The Group agreed that the action contemplated is v.ery much 
in order. Mr._ Gray conunented, however, that his associates had 
expressed extremely strong feelings on the necessity for very 
straightforward action in this situation, and he wo~dered whether 
the plans as outlined were sufficient to accomplish this. Mr~ Dulles 
replied that he had taken· the comments referred to seriously and had 
every intention of proceeding as vigorously as the situation permits 
or requires, but added that he must necessarily put himself in a 
position of interpreting instructions of this kind within the bounds of 
necessity and capability. It was finally agreed that. planning for the 
Congo would not necessarily rule out 1'consideration 11 of any particular 
kind of activity which might contribute to getting rid of Lumu.rnba. 
Mr. Irwin commented that certain indivi.duals in Defense have 
given thought to the possibility of using high officials of the Catholic 
Church in Africa to promote the general objectives of the West. • In 
this connection, he cited a preliminary assessment which had been 
made of the Negro Cardinal recently appointed by the Pope - the 
assessment being that the individual in question is a man of not TH T :) I;,:: ~ ... ~ ! -~" • 
PkOPU-17'1' ,y, 
THF. WHITE ',\UU~;C r.,;:H:r 
_(\r,r 1nr-r .l! hi,;.:.;J 
NW 50955 .Docld: 32423488. Page .38 
-· 
