I, 
I. 
I ,, 
2. It was decided that our public posture toward Cuba shouldt9e as quiet as 
possible -- trying to ignore Castro ·and his island. 
. , • ·J 
"". •· 3. Our covert activities would now be directed toward the destruction of 
targets important to the economy, e. G•, refineries, plants using U. s. equip­
ment,. etc. Thie would be done within the general framework of covert opera­
. tions -· which is based on the principle that, para-military activities ought to 
, .·.:.be carried out through Cuban revolutionary groups which have a potential !or 
• • • establishing an effective political opposition to Castro withip Cuba. Within 
. , that principle we will do all we can to identify and suggest target, whose ·des• 
truction will have the maximum economic impact. 
'· 4. We will intensi(N our surveillance of Cuban trade with other countries and 
especially U, S. suboidiaries in other countrieo; and then e.mploy informal 
• ·mathods to attempt ~ivert this trade -- d~priving Cuba o! markets and 
sources of supply. I understand that we ha.v.e already had a few successes in 
this ef.for t. 
S. We will establish next week .... in the State· Department -- a psychological 
:: :'_,;warfare group. This will be a full-time group of three or four people_ charged 
• with the responsibility of assembling all available information on the Sovietiza-
• • tion of Cuba, repression of human rights, failure of the Cuban economy,_ etc. · 
-- much of which hc2.s been hitherto classifi~d .... putting this information into 
. ,./ readable, popularized form, and developin~ethods of disseminating it through 
, Latin America. Such dissemination would"'bc primarily through USIA channels 
:J but would include feeding it to Latin papers !or "exclusive". stories, .. helping to . 
. :.: .. : prepare scripts for Latin American broadcasts, perhaps a direct mailing list 
, '
1 
. of intellectuals and government officials to be handled by a front group, etc. 
The basic idea. is to get this stuff into channels of Latin American communica­
tion,; instead of treating it as official U. S. j?ropaganda. We have selected 
• someone to head this effort -- Jim O'Donnell of George Ball's office who was 
a free-lance magazine writer (including woik for the Saturday Evening Post) 
for many yea:rs and who Ball big~y recommends. ' 
·i 
6. The CIA was asked to come up -• within 1the week -- with a:prec:iae, covert 
procedure for continuing the below-ground dialogue with the Cuban government. 
The object of this dialogue ..... to e,cplore th~ possibility of a split within the 
governmental hierarchy of Cuba and to encourage such a split -- was fully de­
tailed ln my last memor.andum to you. This is an effort to fin~ an operational. 
>• iechnique. 
.. ,' 
SECRET· 
i • 
• I, 
I 
'' 
Richard N. Goodwin 
ii . 
