• • 
(5) I should mention that Miss Gandy in describing exactly 
how Mr. Hoover's personal correspondence files were destroyed said 
she reviewed each item that she handled to make sure that it was not 
related to Bureau official business. She had previously indicated 
✓ that Mrs. Erma Metcalf had assisted her in destroying these files 
but she did not mention that Mrs. Metcalf endulged in the same type of review and 
Miss Gandy was not questioned whether Mrs. Metcalf had made such a 
review as she went through the files and helped destroy them. 
(6) Both Mr. Gitenstein and Mr. Epstein queried Miss Gandy 
at length about the log kept in the Telephone Room of all calls taken by 
Mr. Hoover. They also queried her at length conce:1ming a log that was 
I.,, kept in the Telephone Room of all visitors to FBI Headquarters who were 
seen by Mr. Hoover. Miss Gandy explained that these logs, to her knowledge, 
were currently retained in the regular Bureau file room. 
(7) Miss Gandy was asked regarding Mr. Hoover's commitments 
and she explained that each morning the employees in the Telephone Room 
prepared a commitment card of Mr. Hoover's commitments for the day 
and this card was placed on Mr. Hoover's desk the first thing in the 
morning for his information. Miss Gandy reported that she received a 
copy of this commitment card. She was asked whether these commitment 
cards were ntai,ned permanently and she replied in the negative. Somewhere 
along the line it was explained to the interviewers that the Bureau had an 
instruction that all items of a temporary nature, such as ticklers and the 
like were to be destroyed after they were 90 days old. Miss Gandy 
indicated these commitment cards would have come under this category 
for destruction. Miss Gandy was queried at length as to just how the 
Telephone Room employees got their information to make up the commitment 
v card and she explained that all employees in Mr. Hoover's office made 
certain the 'iEelephone Room employees were promptly advised of all of 
Mr. Hoover's commitments as they were made. 
V 
(8) In explaining the telephore set-up in the Derartment of Justice 
building as far as :nt related to the FBI, the Staff members were informed 
that calls for Mr. Hoover were received in the Btr eau's switchboard and 
were then referred to the Telephone Room in Mr. Hoover's office arrl the 
employees in the Telephone Room handled the problem of connecting 
Mr. Hoover with the caller. They wanted to know whether employees in 
the Telephone Room screened Mr. Hoover's telephone calls and they were 
informed Telephone Room employees did not screen them except for "nut" 
calls. 
• (9) During a rather heated conversation in the afternoon 
V about some of the questioning being done vhich seemed to be repetitious and 
NW 31B26 Docld:32989fi11 122 - 3 -
