13-00000 
. . 
Mary ask for more information on LIRING. 
"PRIVATE LINE TAP" - According the Marwell, the Board 
considered the issue of the "private lines" but since the 
paragraph dealt with Oswald, voted to release. Mary said is 
was hard to defend the individual released since she did not 
have any information on the person. 
We pointed out that the this release impacted on other 
documents which dealt with private line taps plus the Board 
had not limited its release to the paragraph that mentioned 
Oswald but released the name in other calls which had 
nothing to do with Oswald. 
Marwell said the Board may re-look at the document as part 
of looking at similar documents. 
The issue of the taps on other Bloc embassies came up. Mary 
said the Board was inclined to release given the end of the 
Cold War. 
[Note: we will locate as many of the "private line tap" 
documents we can for special review] • 
Issue: Removing the Proenza and Private line tap 
documents form the formal notification list 
Marwell clearly prefers not to do it at this time (said they 
would discuss). Has no problem with asking the Board to 
reconsider or giving us the opportunity to presence 
additional evidence since their next meeting was within the 
30 days set by the law, but felt that the Board was not 
inclined to keep tabling documents that they had reached a 
decision on. 
Marwell asked-if the Agency planei<.to "appeal"; he would like 
a heads-up. 
Later. in private. Marwell said that 'he wanted to build into 
the process a loop that would handle these types of 
situations. 
Issue: Presentation to Board at Sept. 20/21 -meeting 
It was agreed that "STATIONS" would be the focus of the 
presentation -- 10:00 am, 20 Sept., one hour. 
Marwell recommended providing evidence of bilateral 
agreements as well as identifying current harm. Said that 
the Board was leaning strongly toward releasing stations. 
Mary pointed out that there were still issues on the Mexico 
City station window. There are documents from the sos, 
