- 101 -
be transferred to the Office of General Counsel. This occurred, 
and it remained there until Director Colby decided in conjunction 
with Mr. Houston to transfer for ooerational reasons to the Cover . . . 
and Connnercial Staff. This was done because CSS had the expertise 
and manpower. Moreover, Mr. Colby took exception to the Board 
concept because he felt that it diluted the line responsibility by 
which all other projects were administered. 
As the number of insurance companies grew to cover increasing 
demands placed upon the Agency by more agents, the general fund 
which was retained to backstop all the needs of these companies 
grew. and "the question was what to do with your money." Houston 
explained 
~ow, insurance companies are normally in the business 
of investing their funds, and so this being the normal 
thing, it appeared to us necessary to preserve the nor­
mal appearance of these insurance companies to carry 
on investment programs for the funds involved, and 
there were a variety.of investments to be considered. 
You could go into U.S. Treasury Bonds, notes and bills, 
but actually, from the point of view of insurance bus­
iness practice, this was very llllusual. It would be 
very, very unusual in the insurance field. Usually 
some of them would have some investment in bills, notes 
or bonds, but it was a very small part of their portfolio. 
and to put it in nothing that that we thought would be 
a dead giveaway. So we first went in the direction of 
having a general portfolio somewhat similar to the nor­
mal insurance company's investment practices, and I 
originally reconnnended that we have the board of direc­
tors so that we could have available and demonstrate that 
we had available the best competence the Agency had in­
ternally to pass judgment on what to do with their money. 
Because of shifts in the stock market which made it not look as 
promising as it had been during the 1960s, MHMUTUAL went into 
certificates of deposit, the Eurodollar market and the bond market. 
mr -~0955 Docid: 32423532 Page 131 
