·SECRET 
Betsy Palmer 
-~eview of' Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes l : XVIII (201-2392~_ 
A;pril 6, 1978 
VOIIJME IV - February l, l96l .. March 31, 1961 
1., Operation .Approval granted for Ray's use as a political asset on ""' 
L7=·February _;1961 :J ..J 
2. Memo to WH/4'?Security, From WH/4?CI 
SUbject: Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo Group 
Date: 23 February 1961 
Ray pressuring Mr. Droller to have four individuals freed from McAllen 
Detention Ca.mp who belong to Gutierrez group. Ray claims they a.re 
members of' his group and have been most·active against Castro regime 
in CUba. They are as f'ollows: ASENCIO, SUarez, Lazaro 
LESNIK, Menendez, Max DPOB 8 Sept 1930, 
Vuel tas,. Las Villas 
PORTA Bolanos, Gustavo 
REDONDO, Gonzalez, Roger 
J. Cable to Bell, from JMWA. VE 
Date: March l, 1961 
.Artime advises that Ray's group opposed to banning Communist Party and 
in favor of "nationalizing everything". Ray favors maintaining trade with 
USSR, wants no change in present agrarian ref'orm program. 
4. Cable to JMWAVE from Bell 
Dat;e: March 10, 1961 
INS is concerned over the increased news coverage of' Ray's arrival in 
U.S. and activities here. Afraid they will be con.fronted about Ray's 
arrival (which was describad as ''black" in another comnnmication) so 
Jl-1:1-lAVE asked to re-advise Ray that his story is that on lO Nov 1960, he 
landed somewhere on Keys in a fishing boat, :ma.de way to road where.picked 
up by INS patrol car, taken to WAVE area, examined, declared ref'ugge and 
released -with admonition to always keep INS advised of his address. 
+:-5- Memo to S - Dr. Berle, From: ARA - Philip w. Bonsal 
subject: Recent CUban Developments 
Date: March 16, 1961 
Conversation with Jose I{iro Ca....-dona and Berle, reveals that Cardona has 
misgivings about Ray and Pazoz and the MRP. Says Ray is bitterly anti­
.American as well as probably totalitarian in his thinking. {l:e no longer 
believes Ray has any considerable support inside Cuba. jhinks Ray group 
endeavoring to exercise influence in our government so as to be the major 
recipient of' whatever assistance can be obtained bere. He is particularly 
f~r-f/i# concerned about the role played by Feli~e Pazos. 
SECRET 
