- 94-2-a -
from lack of a clear-cut distinction "at just what level policy 
matters may be decided " Management procedures for the 
project were such that "under the current status everyone may take 
credit but no one could be blamed." As far as operational capa­
bility was concerned he remarked: 
Quite candidly, I am somewhat concerned about the 
operational capability of Project MHBOUND. It seems, 
as a result of its Topsy-like growth, to be oriented 
toward the military and the building trades. Quite 
candidly, it is felt that the base must be broadened. 
Further, I am far from convinced that we have yet 
developed anywhere near the professional status neces­
sary to "sell" this Project as one having unique opera­
tional capabilities sufficient to justify its existence. 
In other words, I am not impressed with the capability 
as it'now exists nor am I sure that we can sell this 
product and then be assured that it can perform in a 
satisfactory manner. 
His comments concerning the attitude of Agency personnel were not 
unique to this proprietary. but they are set out here as illustra­
tive of the singular problems.these entities pose. His remarks 
also show the dangers inherent in some areas of this activity. 
It would seem that this Agency, particularly operating 
components, are insistent upon pursuing an 
11
ostrich 
policy" when it comes to their operational security 
procedures. I have personally witnessed almost hyster­
ical reactions to criticisms as well as total rejections 
of practical suggestions with regard to operational 
security procedures. Now it seems to me that we are 
going about this in a very awkward and embarrassing 
manner. WE ARE, IN EFFECT, ALLOWING-THE WRITERS OF 
SENSATIONAL BOOKS SUCH AS THE "INVISIBLE GOVERNMENT" 
TO PROVIDE THE NECESSARY INFORMATION AND PRESSURE ON 
TOP AGENCY MANAGEMENT TO CORRECT GLARING AND STUPID 
COURSES OF ACTION BEING PURSUED AT THE WORKING LEVEL. 
I have been the object of considerable personal ridicule 
due to my stand in opposition to the unrealistic cover 
and operational security procedures as they relate to 
certain aspects of (CIA Operational Base) for example.· 
NW 50955 Docid:32423532 Page 121 
