13-00000 
"""'' u7 1.1n;;;, ""''-• 
The claim tha-t Oswald's rifle was 
I in the i'eicas S~liool Book Depository. 
The claim that. buH~t hulls matching 
1ld's-rifle wer~ found in the same place. 
The claim that one gunman was seen 
"Qswald window" of the Dallas Book 
sitory. 
The claim that two gunmen were seen 
3 window. 
The claim that a gunman was seen 
lifferent window of that building. 
Another c.lai m that no shots came from 
assy knoll, and a claim by the witness 
3aw the g1.1nsmoke on the knoll that 
so heard a shot from that direction. 
~ claim by a Dallas policeman that 
ir he nor Officer Tippitt knew Oswald. 
The claim by the pathologist-the 
,n Commission's only source of infor~ 
n about the autopsy-that the X-rays. 
Jtopsy pli::>tographs support his tes-
1 before the Commission. 
he claim by a member of the Warren 
1ission that there was nothing fraudu­
.:>out the Warren Report. 
The claim by Ear1 ·warren that the 
1ission found r.o evidence of a con­
y: that none of the Warren Report's 
ever found anything the Commission 
issed; tha: he had found nothing since 
blication of the Report to change his 
and that he knew of no Commission 
er.who had ever changed his mind 
their conclusions. 
,· .. 
111u1cc11e:. ueceµuun, cm 1111ereliu11g anu me ~::>t:: ano cannot De cross-checked t,y ·_ ,;.-·: , .. : 
unexpectec:t possibility emerges: a structured interrogation, somep~bab_i,lity -,:,; .. • - -
must be accepted that this streu:ls caus&d -:.: : ·, . 
Oswald was involved in some way in the by an outside issue. No study has yet been . ·; • : . 
assassination, if only as a fall guy. Some of conducted to establish what this probability . • : _._._ -
the Dallas police force may have been in- might be, but let us pick. tor the sake of.··.:_:•.,:. 
volved, planted the evidence that lmpli- discussion, a figure that may seem rldicu- ---(:· -~ . 
c:itcd O::wa.ld, and covered up the fact th3t lously high-70 percent. In other words; we .:_-·. • • · 
there was a conspiracy. The medical exam- are assuming that 70 percent of the times 
Iner believed his own te5timony to the War- the PSE finds stress in testimony, It results 
ren Commission, but later had doubts. The from something other than lying. 
Commission found evidence of a conspir- Now, let's ignore the deception Indicated 
acy but didn't believe it. so they coverad in the testimony of the eyewitnesses; even 
it up in order to present a tidy package to if present, It might have resulted from mere 
the public. Later, at least gl)e member of desire for attention. That leaves eight "in-
the Commission changed his mind, but siders"whohavedemonstratedstresswhen · 
since he did_n·t know what re~lly did hap- making statements supporting the Warren 
pen, he d~•ded to say noth,~g. So ~ere Report: the Dallas policemen Hil~ Jacks, 
was con~p,racy in Dallas, and •~ Washing- Jackson and Weitzman; the medical exam-
. ton nothing worse than blundenng. . iner, Captain Humes: Commission staffer . _. • 
• I could say all this with certainty If I knew Wesley Liebler; Commission member John· • 
that stress always equals deception. Unfor- McCloy; former Chief Justice Earl Warren. . 
tunately, I do not know that. But the PSE • Assuming that there is a 70 percent 
analysis of the assassination tapes has chance that any single Instance of stress 
generated a staggering amount of fresh is "outside.issue," what Is the probability 
doubt regarding the Warren Report. This that all eight instances are due· 19 factors 
doubt rises not only from .specific points other than deception? Elementary prom. 
the PSE has called Into question, but from bility theory tells us that It is seven-tenths .• 
the very sinister implications of the very raised to the eighth power, or approximately 
existence of deception among policemen, 6 percent. • • • 
government officials and Commission In other words, even making some fairly 
members. The question remains: did such conservative assumptions, there is a 94 per­
deception exist or was the stress found by cent chance that at least one of these eight 
the PSE the result, in every case, of an out- men Is lying. • ·_ . 
side issue? • My own personal opinion? I don't lcnow. _·, . 
. . 
I remember the young man with the ring. • • • 
He said he was wearing it, and he was. 
• but he stressed . .He stressed not because 
he was lying, but because there was some­
thing about that ring that really bothered 
him, something he didn't want the world to 
know. Perhaps that is also true of these men 
who. in one way or another, learned some 
part of the truth about the assassination of 
John F. Kennedy. 
I suppose I'm not absolutely sure even • 
of that. When I first met Bob Smith of the 
Committee, I asked him if there was any 
one thing the govemment could do to clear 
up the mystery. Yes, he replied, the one 
thing that would help more lhan anylhlng 
else would be to make available the physJ. 
cal evidence - the detailed FBI lab re- •. 
ports, the X-rays and autopsy photographs, 
. the microscopic slides, the bloodstained 
clothing, yes, even the President's brain. 
wherever it has been hidden. These things • 
he said, would go far toward answering the 
questions about what actually happened 
that day in Dallas. Maybe they would even 
confirm the Warren Report 
So when I say I'm not absolutely certain 
Jhese men are concealing somethi,-ig. I . 
mean I can think of something that could 
conceivably change my mind. That is, If the 
• govemment would open all its files on this 
matter to us and prove that we are wrong 
. -we, the people who ten years later still 
believe we haven't yet heard the full account 
of the events of November 22. 1963. • 
Ot,i 
I 
I 
t 
t . 
i t 
... 
·• 
- ... . . ... . ~-.~ ... -.... ·-
