• • 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee on Intelligence 
There was a general consensus of opinion at the meeting with the 
other agencies of agreeing that they would await the development of the 
position paper by Wilderotter. Walter Lloyd advised that another meeting 
with Schwarz and the C0mmittee staff would be scheduled for Thursday, 
May 8, 1975. 
Upon my return to my office, Wilderotter called me to report 
that he had been unsuccessful in having the Mohr interview postponed and 
further that Schwarz had advised him that he now feels that it would be 
inappropriate for agency representatives to be present at any interviews 
whether they concerned abuse or whether they concerned general matters, 
and further that he felt that it would be inappropriate for the agency to be 
advised of the subject matter prior to the interview. 
At that point, Mark Gittenstein joined the conversation with Schwarz & 
Wilderotter and advised Wilderotter that he intended to interview Mohr 
concerning 'procedures and how paper moved in the Hoover days, ff 
and this would constitute 90% of the interview. The remaining 10% of the 
interview would concern Hoover's ffO. C. Files. ff Further Gittenstein 
mentioned that he was aware that John Mohr is the Executor of Mr. Tolson 1s 
estate and he may inquire concerning that matter. 
Wilderotter said that there would be no further contact with the 
Committee concerning the Mohr interview and that we should assume the 
Mohr interview will proceed as scheduled. He said that he would suggest 
the Bureau contact Gittenstein to discuss any further details regarding the 
subject matter of the interview of Mohrmd that we consider discussing 
with Mohr prior to the interview matters that he should not discuss with 
Gittenstein. He also suggested that we debrief Mr. Mohr at the completion 
of the interview. 
I reminded Mr. Wilderotter that tlrere are no guidelines by which 
the White House or the intelligence community or the Senate Committee have 
agreed that the FBI should make such arrangements with the witness. I 
told him that I thought that the FBI would be useg as a test case both by 
the Committee and by the intelligence community if we undertook to 
negotiate such matters directly with Gittenstein. I told him that I thought 
that such direct negotiations would undermine the effectiveness of current 
- 4 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38196 Docld:32989532 99 
