14-00000 
f".".~: () 
": .. : ..: "~; :' ., :, 
91 
5. [fhe probable position of the Nenni Socialists at their July 
Congress was discussed. 
ACTION: CIA was requested to explore the possibility 
of political action at this time designed to 
influence a favorable decision by the Congress 
concerning the Party's support of NATO and 
the West as contrasted with the taking of a 
neutral position. As an alternate possibility, 
it was suggested that the Party might be 
influenced to refrain from making support 
of NATO an issue on which the Government 
might be brought down. Such a course would 
make it possible for the Christian Democratic 
Party to conduct its support of NATO even 
though the CD are closely associated with the 
Nenni Socialists. 
McCone stated that Mr. Karamessines 
would report on this matter at the earliest 
possible time:.J 
9( 
6. gfter a brief discussion on conditions in Haiti, Mr. Bundy 
stated that NSAM ____ would be issued and would impose on CIA 
certain responsibilities for covert action among exile groups. 
ACTION: CIA should immediately study the prospect of 
creating an exile group around dependable 
leadership, prepare a plan, estimate of cost, 
and a forecast of success of intervention in 
Haiti and make specific recommendations on 
course of action if one is indicated. Care should 
be taken not to initiate action until policy has 
been agreed upon at appropriate levels of 
Government and of higher authority. Under no 
circumstances should a course of action by 
tied to a particular date or be otherwise7 
I/~ inflexibl9 
7. (rter a brief discussion of the overflight problem in India, Special 
Group urged that CIA seek an appointment with Amb. Bowles prior to his 
departure in order to acquaint him with the background of th\~ program, the 
history of the attitude of the Indians, the current status and7other dimensions 
of the problem so that he will be fully informed upon his arrival in New Delhi 
and will not necessarily be prejudiced by the views of Amb, Gailbrait:.J 
JAM/mfb 
