NK 157-2011 
2. 
" efficiency apartment at the Florence Motel in Florence, N.J. 
Orr the evening of June 13,· 1974, he and JAKE dropped FRANK 
DRAGER off at a grocery store in the Florence, N~J., area, 
and -as tli_ey were travelling to the motel they were arrested 
by the New Jersey State Police on a traffic charge. At-
the time they were.stopped, CARROLL reached under the front 
seat and drew out a .45 caliber automatic and stated he was 
going to shoot it out with the trooper. KEITH told him 
he was crazy, inasmuch as JAKE did not even know why they 
were stopped. The officer advi$ed them they had illegally 
passed a school bus and requested to see JAKE's identification. 
JAKE then handed the trooper a driver's license and the 
trooper evidently noticed JAKE had several other driver's 
licenses in his wallet. The trooper then apparently became 
suspicious and made them stand against the car while he looked 
around. The trooper then spotted one of the guns, placed them 
under arrest, and later determined the car to have been stolen . . 
KEITH stated he is a parole violator inasmuch as 
he has been arrested. KEITH indicated he had no involvement 
with DRAGER and JAKE and had requested he transfer to another 
jail inasmuch as his involvement with JAKE might get him into 
further trouble. 
He stated that in his conversations with JAKE while 
in-the Burlington County Jail he has determined the following 
information: 
DRAGER and JAKE had received a map of the diagram 
of the sewer system in Washington, D.C., from a friend of 
DRAGER's who works for the Sewer Department in Washington, D.C. 
JAKE and DRAGER indicated they were going to blow up the IRS 
Building in Washington, D.C. It was also determined that 
DRAGER has dynan1ite and guns buried on a farmF which is in 
Pennsylvania. The name GEORGE HOUSER was mentioned in reference 
to this farm. JAKE had indicated he and DRAGER had gone to 
the Boston, Mass., area and possibly were involved in a bank 
robbery. JAKE and DRAGER had pre-arranged plans to make an 
escape at any courthouse the other one was to appear if 
apprehended. A person by the name of DE PUGH was to have 
gotten a copy of the sewer plans of Washington, D.C., from 
FERRIS. 1'~ PillYMOND DOERFLER from Trenton, N. J. , went to a 
Ku Klux Klan meeting at Risfng Sun, Md., in efforts to get 
money for FRANK DRAGER's b~il and further monies in efforts 
to help DRAGER purchase his camper truck from a ORVILLE LIPPERT. 
63 
NW 38196 Docld:32989574 
t 
I· 
I 
I I 
! 
