• 
Interview of Donald E. Moore by 
Mr. Loch Johnson, Senate Select Committee 
July 28, 1975 
Mr. Johnson stated at the outset that this was an informal 
interview and he did not place me under oath. He asked about my 
background which was provided him and included the fact that I 
served in the FBI from March 10, 1941, until my retirement at 
the end of June 1973. 
The interview concerned the so -called Huston Committee 
and he asked if I knew Tom Charles Huston before the Committee 
was established. I said I recalled meeting Huston once, in Bill 
Sullivan's office, but I didn't recall when th~s was, but it was before 
the Committee was formed. In respop.se to q,;i.e_stions, Mr. Johnson 
~_vas h'.1£or~::ned as follows: 
I was aware of the meeting at the White House attended by 
Director Hoover, Mr. Helms, Admiral u·ayler and Gen. Bennett. 
I was probably aware the meeting was to take place before .the 
meeting date but I can't recall this. (He said the meeting was 
held June 5, 1970.) I was not at a meeting held in Mr. Hoover's 
office June 8 but I recall hearing about the meeting, probably 
from Bill Sullivan. I don't recall a meeting held in the Domestic 
Intelligence Division after this at which Sullivan, Bill Cregar, 
George Moore, Fr1qd Cassidy arid I were present. I did attend the 
initial meeting of th'e Working Group headed by Sullivan and was 
present because Sullivan asked me to be there. I remember Sullivan 
and Cregar were at the meeting and I thought one or more other FBI 
representatives were present. He mentioned George Moore and 
Fred Cassidy were at the meeting. 
I recall Mr. Helms and Mr. Angleton from.CIA were present 
but did not recall the_ names of others includin~ the representatives 
from NSA, DIA and the military services. I recall Sullivan chaired 
the meeting and that Huston sat at the opposite end of the table. 
Either Helms or Sullivan announced that Helms probably couldn't 
stay for the entire meeting but I don't recall Helms leaving·, although 
he did not sit directly at the conference table. 
1rmDfL/6 
... . ........ ,. ,.,.,.,v,1 cn"'1Tll '~,I!:£1 
•• ·:~~:~~~~~~~~;:i lttm~ 
NW 38326 Docld:32989627 17 
