6H 
[ 
3. 
4. 
P.A:RT II 
• 
SECTIOU 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
h. If an item to be submitted appears on more than one page of the news­
paper, the words "Continued on .page ... , 11 the subheadline on the con­
tinued page, and the words "Continued from page ... 11 should not be 
mounted. 
i. Mounted clippings should read from top to bottom, column by column, 
from left to right. 
j. All clippings must be complete. 
k. Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted except that two copies 
of all items pertaining to actual or possible civil rights violations 
should be forwarded. 
1. Include .clippings with other mail being ~ent to Bureau on the day 
that the clippings appear in the local paper~ Forward clippings from 
resident agencies the day they arrive at headquarters city. 
Resident Agents must be aleri; for material appearing in the local press. 
Submission of publications of security interest to the Bureau 
a. General principle governing ~ubmissions . 
The Bureau desires to receive publications of security interest at 
[)BIEQ]fo~ purposes of information, research, and intelligence. Conse­
quently, it is requesteJ _that evidentiary copies of pubiications be 
retained in the field and only nonevidentiary copies be fo:i;-warded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. 
b. Ma·nner of handling .and forwarding nonevidentiary copies .of publica­
tions 
(1) Nonevidentiary copies of newspapers, magazines, journals, 
• p~riodioals, news bullitins, and ~oaks, obtained regulariy 
{by subscription or repeai;e<,1. purphase) and forwarded tQ the 
Bureau, need not be identified as to source. They should be 
submi_tted via ordinary ·mail by routing slip {marked for the 
attention of[Section IS-3, Intelligence Division)Junless 
transmit~ai by cover letter ha~ been specifically requested. 
C 
t. 
Routing slips may be used to notify the Bureau of routine adminis-c-· 
trative matters; such as temporary suspension of a publication 
{e.g., during summer months, lack of funds), temporary delay in 
obtai or receiving particular issues of .a publication, or 
other ormation which will keep the Bureau informed relative to 
the status of these publications. To avoid, confusion, noneviden­
tiary copies which have been marked for identification (source, 
Agent, date, and place of acquisition)should be further annotated: 
"Not Evidence. 11 
Letters should be used in connection with initiating action or 
ceasing action to ob'tain publications desired by the Burea:u; to 
call to the attention of the Bureau specific items of information 
connected with these publications; and in those instances in 
which good judgment dictates that certain circumstances or 
information should be recorded in letter form. 
( 2) Each SAC and each legal attache must keep th·e Bureau, attention 
[Section IS-3, Intelligence Division,]informed on a current basis 
regarding publications (including books) of potential interest 
that are not included in the current list of publications which 
is supplied periodically to the field and to the legal attaches. 
These publications would include those published by subjects 
of security or counterintelligence investigations and publica­
tions which may otherwise have a security or counterintelligence 
significance. 
(3) Each SAC and each legal attache should insure that the handling 
of publications for which his office is· responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. Subscriptions to these 
_publications should be followed closely to insure that i;he 
publications are received at the Bureau on a current basis. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication in ,sufficient time to enable the 
Bureau to determine the necessity for renewal. (_ 
Sa 
3-27-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1113 
