) .. 
( 
c: 
( 
[ 
SECTIOH I~. SECURITY nrFORl1A.NTS .A.ND CONF-.NTIA.L S~UR.CES. l07'S-T 
b. If no pertinent derogatory information is developed, initial contact 
may be m~de with prospective panel source to ascertain cooperative­
ness; however, in regard to individuals associated vrith educational 
institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning investi­
gations on campuses. 
c. Submit[secure teletype (Nitel)]to Bureau requesting-authority to use 
individual as a panel source and set out: 
(1) Results ~f background investigation and data as to date and 
place of birth, citizenship status if foreign porn, residence 
·and employment addresses 
(2) Details of expected area of activity of individual as panel 
source and results of any interviews conducted with him 
{3) Statement to effect subject is being considered panel source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confi­
dential nature of his relationship with Bure·au. .Also, state·­
ment should be made that you will be alert to be certain sub­
ject is not a plant and, if connected with labor uniOI).· or 
educational institution, he wi 11 be advised of Bureau policy 
on such matters. 
(4) One copy of letter should consist only of first page. If 
approved at Bureau, stamped notation indicating Bureau approval 
will be placed on single-page copy and it will be returned to 
field. 
3. Administrative handling 
a. Follow same procedure in handling, processing, and report"ing ci.ata. and 
material furnished by panel sources as afforded security informants. 
b. Handle payments for legitimate expenses incurred and services rendered 
in same manner as security informanis. Gifts should not be given to 
panel sources. 
c. Open 134 file when active investigation of prospective panel source 
initiated. Close file administratively if panelist is not contacted 
regularly. Mote contacts with panelists in their respe.ctive files. 
d. Only .A.gents designated in particular case should contact panelists. 
e. Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation ·of 
payments to panel source. If source not paid on.Bureau authorization,· 
Agent handling prepare memorandum to SAC for file containing certi­
fication as to stability and reliability. 
f. A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is taken 
to develop an individual as a panel source. Use abbreviation "PS" 
before symbol·number, e.g., PS NY 000-S. 
g. Desig:iate, where practicable, coordinating Agent to maintain current 
roster of panel sources and scheduled organization ac_ti vi ties, who 
ttill notify .Agents handling individual panelists of organizational 
functions to be covered. Coordinating Agent should receive notice of 
coming events from Agents handling organizations, informants, and 
publications. 
h • .Advise Bureau of date panel source is discontinued and reasons. 
T. DOUBLE .AGE?-iT OPERATIONS 
1. Passage of information 
a. In double agent operations information requested by principals is 
frequently passed eit~er to build up double agent's stature or as 
evidence of espionage activity. 
b. Each case must be carefully evaluated to· make certain that net 
gain accrues to U. S. • 
c. Informatioµ passed should be carefully handled and logical explana­
tions created for its acquisition by double agent. 
2. Locating information to pass 
Where possible field office handling double agent should locate appropr:tate 
information; however, Bureau can assist in fulfilling requests for infor­
mation in possession of other Government agencies. 
3. Obtaining Bureau authority 
Bureau authority must be obtained to pass any information in double 
agent operation except: 
a. Newspaper or magazine article 
23 
8-14-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 .Page 1191 
