• 
• i.,•·_' 
-· 
Be 11::zon t .. · ··-
investigatz've e.fforts· on our ·p-ctrt. To avoid recurrences of instances o;f 
this nature, we adopted the zjoJ icy of clearing our intentions with the_, 
_. Depa_rtment of 5'tate before az.cthorizing the field to e.xpencl any 
··invest igc;t ive e./fort. In this manner we put State Depa:r;tment on not ice 
as to our objectives at the outset in order that when we return to 
State to secure clearance for the in~estigation and int~rview ~f 
a pctrticular. individual, we will not be denied clearanc.fr_on the grounds 
of delicate international relations. (65-6JllJ-,89) • • 
By lette1~ dated 5-20..;.:/8, • 12'; offices in v;hose territories \ 
.foreign official_ establ islwzents are ·-1ocatecZ were advised that our e.fforts t 
in. {he development of sources and· informants in establ islunents of i 
.f1~iendly foreign nations should be based primarily on need ancl shol!,ld t 
_ be directed tozoard development of so_urces in the establishments of. K 
ostensibly .friendly .foreign countries (1) where there is definite f; 
indication the. specific country i.s dri.ft ing toward alignmerz.t with the 1~ 
Soviet bloc; (2) where the situation· in a particular country involves . 
serious political or 1;-2ilitary crisis with intern,ational ramifications or f 
possible revolutionary activity ancl·good potential e.xists .for the Bureau 
to produce valuable in tel 1 igence dat0 through coverage of.diplomatic 
establ islunents in t'he U. 8; or (J) 7.phere there is a c:l ear and present. 
investigC!.tive neet?. The 12 o/./ices were infonned tliat Bureau authority 
• must ·oe secured prior to initiating any program to develop sources and 
informants within diplomatic establishments of a specific countr_y 
outside the· Soviet bloc, at uJhicli tinz'e completedata ml;lst be furnished as 
to need and potential benefit of such a program. The .f ielcl 'WC!,3 informed 
that, if such a prograrn is jt.lstified, the Bureau will then· discuss the 
matter with the State Depa;-t.,nent. ]?oil.owing State Department clearance, 
the Bureau will notify the interested field offices to :initiate the 
program. 1-Iowever, further Bureau authority will still be required for 
the investigation and interview of each prospec~since State Department 
clearance will be sought in connection with each of these steps. • 
- . . · .• • (65-6JllJ-9O) . 
Since our redirection of ·this phase of captioned program in 
1.tZay, 1958,. with prior State Department clearance we have instituted 
action 6r continued action previous)~ ·instituted to develop live sources 
in official establishments of the countries listed below. The first 
col u.mn beside the name of each country shows the nv . .lnber of presently 
active sources developed to date (including those developed prior to 
1-!a.y, 1958) and the second colrnnn shouJs the number still under • 
C O ,., 6 z· -7 0 rrz t . . • • 
. ,,,0 l-~-::- L:.. zon.· 
