'. 1 
'.J • itl ~ 
Mr. Mann commented that he thinks we cannot maintain training 
anywhere in Latin America indefinitely, although he does think we 
could maintain small airstrips without too much danger. He said that 
he believes everyone in Guatemala knows by now _the true nature of 
our activities there, and that ii they are going to be pl,].blicized before 
the world he would rather have them exposed in the U.S. rather than 
in Latin America. He recognized that this would be highly embar­
rassing for this country; but that for most Latin American governments 
it could be fatal. He spoke of the impending OAS investigation of 
Guatemala, and conceded that OAS support would be required to carry 
out training successfully in the U.S. To this, Mr. Merchant replied 
that he did not think exposure of such activities on American soil would 
be acceptable, particularly in the U. N. 
Mr. Bissell then said that he has agreed for some time with 
Mr. Marui 1 s poi~t as to the strain on Guatemala. He said that we have 
developed an evacuation plan to be used in' the event of outside investi­
gation, but that this is n'ot a satisfactory answer to the problem. He 
said that within about four weeks an alternate site could be established 
in Nicaragua b.ut that this would be very expensive, would tie us into 
the Somoza brothers, and would call attention to Nicaragua in the same 
way as Guatem~la. 
Mr. Bi:;sell said that he foresaw several possibilities for 
constructive change in the training operation, some for the immediate 
future and some over a period of longer range. They include:· 
a. A sort of refugee camp in the U.S. ostensibly 
d_esigned for temporary care of .Cuban exiles. This story 
could be defended but it is difficult to say for how long 
or how. effectively. 
b. A guarded military facility in the U.S. This 
could be handled more securely, but the existence of 
an area where peculiar things are going on could not 
be kept secret indefinitely. An alternative would be 
pri.1.-at.eiilr~ . .:sw:.h .as the King Ranch, but this would 
take longer to arrange than a.military base. 
• c. Vieques Island, off Puerto Rico. This is fairly 
remote, but the government of Puerto Rico is already 
trying to get the U.S. Marines out. 
2 
PROPERTY OF 
TH E W H I TE H O 0 0 E U ~ i: \ \~: 
mt 50955 Docld.:32423488 Page 47 
