13-00000 ._-....... ·-.~,:", •;';"• 
:r.-:.~-~~ .... .-. 
-~--:~: ::.: •.. : 
-:::::::::::::: 
·::; •. ~~-::-: ":-' • 
.::.":.:;.,'Ii 
• 
-·-_, ... _, ·: 
•. 
going to be able to handle the situation as they would want to handle it. They 
ha ,·e to depend upon local police organizations. ?ifany local police departments 
are capable and efficient; some are not. Many have good judgment and some 
have not. Where,·er you have a police department of 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 men 
you are bound to find a few who will just barge in and do something which 
better judgment would dictate should not be done, as in the incident which 
occurred in the Midwest where they placed people prncticully under house arrest. 
I think it was very bad judgment and should not ha\"e been done but the Secret 
Service, of course, turned the names over to the local authorities, and the local 
authorities do what they think is right. 
Now, I guess their attitude with all justice to them is, "Well, we will resolve 
the risk in our favor. If we keep these people under surveillance and keep 
them in the house until the President gets out of town nothing can happen 
from them." That is what you would call totalitarian security. I don't think• 
you can have that kind of security in this country without having a great wll.ve 
of criticism against it. There is a great tendency for people to expect the int¢11i­
gence forces and the law enforcement agencies to be able to go out anrl a:r.rest 
people and bring them in and hold them endlessly and talk to them. W" can't 
arrest a person, withou( probable cause, or unless he commits a crime m our 
presence. We have to arraign him promptly ·and if not done promptly, the 
confession that he may have made generally cannot be used against him. • 
Just as a collateral matter we faced that pr'oblem in California in the case 
of the kidnapping of Frank Sinatra, Jr. One of the kidnappers we arrested 
near San Diego confessed but we didn't arraign him because the other kidnap­
pers would have left California· and it would have been difficult to find them. 
However, the next day after arraignment he made changes in thP confession 
and signed it so the court held that it was admissible. • 
The Secret Service, of course, is faced with the same problem. They just 
can't arrest people because they may not like their looks. They haYe to have 
facts justifying detention but the public conception is that you have a full right 
to go out and do these things. We have stressed in the FBI that there must be 
full compliance with the laws of this country and with the decisions of the 
Supreme Court. That is the law of the country. Now, whether a person likes 
it or not and there are some groups that are very .violent ag'.l.inst the decisions 
of the court while others are very much in favor of them, it is not for the FBI 
to take sides. We have a job to do and we do it under the rulings of the courts 
and we have been able.to do it effectively . 
. I know when the ruling came down on the prompt arraignment, there was 
great shouting and some strong editorials claiming that it was going to wreck 
law enforcement. It hasn't wrecked us. It has. made it more difficult but I 
think we have to face up to the fact that law enforcement .in a free country 
must abide by the laws of that country irrespective of how difficult it is. Some 
persons talk about putting handcuffs on the law enforcement officers and taking 
them off the criminals. That is a nice catch phrase to use in a speech or article 
but operating within the law has not interfered with our work. 
Mr, ltA_l'!;tµIf._ Mr:; H;oover, I· ask you a,bout Exhibit 825 which ls first a letter 
and then encloses certain affidavits of your agents. 
Mr. HOOVER. Yes, sir. 
Mr. RANKIN. You are familiar with that? 
Mr. HOOVER. I am familiar with that. I read all of that and signed it, 
Mr. RANKIN. You know those are the affidavits in regard to whether Lee 
Haney Oswald was an agent or connected in anyway with the Bureau that you 
have just testified to? 
Mr. HoovEB. That is correct; and the affidavits of all agents, who had. any 
contact with him. • 
Mr. RANKIN. I call your attention to Exhibits 864 and 865, and. ask you if 
you have seen those before or, you have seen the original of 864 and 865 is a 
photostatic copy of your letter to us in answer to 864, is ·that correct? 
Mr. HoovER. That is correct; yes. I recall very distinctly. 
Mr. RANKIN. Do you recall those letters involved an inquiry as to any con­
nections of Lee Harvey Oswald with Communists or any criminal groups or 
others that might be conspiratorial? 
114 
