107U 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
[ 
SECTION 10·- SECURITY INFORI"iAMTS AND CONFI-TIAL SOURCES 
Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used for assistance in security 
inYestigations, secure Bureau approval, and background data must 
be furnished to the Bureau of the same ·t;ype which is required 
for potential security informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters i·n vrhich the 
frequency of contact is dependent upon ciroumst~moe·s of the individual 
case, confidential sources on whom penaing files are maintained should 
also be contac·i;ed at least once every two weeks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
c. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted. . 
d. Contacts with confidential sources should only b~ made by the Agent 
or .Agents specifically designated for. t.h~.-t w•.1.r.pose. 
e, The letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use a subject 
as a confidential source is to set out clearly the following informa­
tion: 
(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, 
citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arres·l:; 
record, and service record, if any 
(2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together with the results of any 
interviews condu.c·f;ed with him 
( 3) A statement to the effect subject is being cons:i.dered a con­
fidential sou.roe and that he will be advised he is not a 
Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
ship with the Bureau, In addition, a statement should be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of 
Bureau policy on labor ma·bters, . 
f. One of the required copies of the letter requesting authority to use 
a subject as a confidential source should consist only of the first 
pa of the letter. If ·i;he request is approved at the Bureau, a 
stamped notation will be placed on the single-page copy and it will 
be returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to. 
consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
authority are not ·bo be transmitted to the Bureau un·bil subject is 
sufficiently oooperatiYe and all necessary background ,information 
obtained. • 
Security confidential sources - certification of stability and payments 
a. Every four months a le~ter of justification should be submitted to • 
the Bureau il:'equesting' continuation of payments to security- confidential 
sources. See 107N,. 3b, for form of lette-r. •• ... • 
,b. If the security source is not being paid on Bureau authorization and 
is being, used regularly, the Agent handling the source must dictate 
a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification 
as to stability and reliability as required by payment ).etters. 
Gifts • • 
Gifts should not be giYen to sources since such action~ might be 
misconstrued. 
Discontinuance 
Ad:Yise Bureau[of -the date]when confidential source is discontinued, and 
the reasons therefor. 
28 
4-13-64 
~ NW 38.321 Docld:.32989529 Page 1568 
( 
' 
