6A 
[ 
I 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
4.. News Media Inquiries ( 
Ther!2! are two categories of news media inquiries. The first involves • . • 
routine inquiries received at the field office regarding either investi-
gative or administrative matters. These should be answered by the SAC 
or ASAC within the guidelines fndicated above. 
In responding to such inquiries, SACs and ASACs should be courteous, 
factual, and as helpful as possible. They should, however, avoid 
answering hypothetical questions or questions that would require them 
to express personal opinions on matters of intense local or national 
controversy .. 
The second category involves inquiries from the news media in emergency. 
situationso Often these are received by Special Agents at the scenes . 
of arrests, gun battles, or other ·fast-mov_ing developl!lents in investigations. 
Unless undercover assignments or similar overriding circumstances dic-
tate otherwise, Special Agents who are approached by newsmen at the scenes 
of fast-moving developments in FBI cases should (a) identify themselves 
as 11a Special Agent of the FBI," (b) furnish the name of the field office. 
• to which they are assigned, and (c) ·state the general nature of the inves­
tigative operations, such as "We are here to serve an arrest (or a search) 
warrant .. " Requests for additional information should be answered by ' 
courteously referring the newsman to the field office or to the tem-
porary field headquarters if such a temporary field headquarters has 
been established in the area. • 
Only SACs. or ASACs should participate in question-and-answer interviews. 
with representatives of any news medium at the scenes of fast-moving 
developments in FBI cases .. In emergency situations, however, Special 
Agents can relay reporters' questions to the SAC' by telephone or radio; 
and the SAC's responses thereto can be furnished to the reporters in 
the SAC's name by a Special Agent. In other than such emergency situa­
tions, Special Agents should courteously .refer newsmen to the SAC or 
ASAC for answers to their questions; and Special Agents' investigative 
responsibilities attendan_t to such fast-moving developments must take 
precedence over questions or inquiries of newsmen .. 
No FBI employee should knowingly furnish an erroneous, deceptive, or 
misleading answer to a news media inquiryo In the overwhelming majority 
of cases, an unequivocal and definitive answer can be given reporters' 
questions· regarding whether the FBI is, or is not, investigating a 
spe·cif ic criminal act, as well as the reason why we have or have not 
instituted investigation .. However, in kidnap-for-ransom cases and 
related crimes involving a threat against human life, neither the fact 
that the crime has occurred, nor the fact that the FBI is investigating 
it, should be disclosed or confirmed without the approval of the sub­
stantive investigative division and the External Affairs Division~ 
Due tq the sensitivity of many banking-type institutions to publicity 
concerning the amount of loot obtained in robberies, burglaries, and 
larcenie·s of financial institutions, such information should not be 
disclosed to news media without the concurrence of the General Investi­
gative Division and the External Affairs Divisiono 
• le 
2-27-74 
( 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:3.2989529 Page 235 
