'IOP_ SECRET (XGDS) 
COMi\lISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITl!IN THE UNITED STATES 
\V;isl1i11gto11, DC 20500 
Nelson A. Rockefeller, David W. Belin, 
ChairmJn 
John T. Connor 
C. Dou~lii~ Dillon 
Erwin N. G1is·1✓ old 
Lane Kirkidnd 
Lyman L. Lemnitzer 
RonJld Rcugan 
Edgar F. Shannon, Jr. 
MEM)RA.\IDUM FDR 'IHE FII.E 
FFDM: IDBERI' OLSEN' 
Executive Director 
February 13, 1975 
StJB.JECT: Surrmary of an Interview of Howard Osl::::orn, conducted on February 10 
and 11 in the offices of the Coimission by Mr-. Robert B. Olsen 
Present throughout the interview, which was conducted from 2:00 pm to approxi­
rrately 5: 30 pm on February 10 and from 12 n::x:m until 2:45 pm and from 4:45 pm 
to approxima.tely 8: 00 pm on February 11, was the attorney for Mr. Osborn, 
Jack J)ebelius. 
Mr. Osborn awea,red voluntarily at the request of the Commission staff. At the 
outset, Mr. Debelius raised a series of questions: 
1. He asked us to supply an outline of the authority of the Corrmission. He 1 .•. 
was handed a copy of the Executive Order creating the Commission and spelling . 
out its duties and rx:rwers. 
2. He asked whether the Corr.nission had subpoena p::,wers,and he was advised that 
it did not. 
3. He asked whether the Commission had power to grant immunity to witnesses, and 
he was advised that the Corrmission does not have such power. 
4. He asked what liaison has been established, or will be established bet.-Jeen the 
Corrmission and the various Senate and House Committees which will be investi­
gating the CIA and other intelligence activities. He was told that the Com­
mission expects to establish such liaison, but that none of the ground rules 
or arrangerrents have yet been agreed up:::,n. 
5. He as~:ed whether Mr. Osborn \.;ould have an o:_:>i_JC)rtunity to review the transcrio:. 
of any recorded testimony that he 1my give to the Commission or to the Com­
mission staff. He was told that the Corrrnission staff had agreed UPOn a policy 
of allowiIB any witness to examine the transcript of his own testim:my. 
6. He asked whether Mr. Olsen had been cleared for security and whether Mr. 
Osborn was free to reveal all levels of classified information in the course 
of the interview. He was advised that sud1 a clearance h~ been obtained for 
Mr. Olsen and that Mr. Osl::::orn \-:.:is free to answer fully any questions put to 
him within the scope of the responsibili tics of the Commission. 
i:;_up SECffiT (XG!:6-50(2) EO 11652 
73y7illthor1ty of _________ _ 
NW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 7 
