13-00000 
., 
~; 
"-.' 
t 
DDO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE OF CERTAIN. 
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS 
Rescission: CSI 50-10, 13 July 1970 
1. GENERAL 
a. IDemental in the conduct of clandestine operations is the use of human 
agents to accomplish ·the missions of _the. Operations Directorate. In gen­
eral, it is DDO policy to select iigent assets with primary regard to the 
agents' abilities, target access, and security, and with few restrictions as 
to their origins, professions or status as . membe_rs of particular groups. The 
basic rule is that any consenting adult may be used · by the Operations 
··Directorate. There are, however, certain sensitive categories of individuals 
or groups whose operational use by the Operations Directorate is prohibited 
• or in some way restricted for reasons not necessarily related to security 
considerations. 
b. These prohibitions or restrictions stem from one of the following: 
(1) The Agency has been directed by. U.S. Governmental authority to 
. restrict or avoid the operational • use of a particular category_ of in­
dividuals. 
( 2) The Agency has entered into a special restrictive agreement with an 
• organization, government, corporation, or official responsible for a 
category of individuals. 
( 3) .The· Director or the· Deputy Director for Operations • has imposed 
restrictions on the operational use of a certain category of individuals 
due to the extreme risk or sensitivity of such exploitation. • 
2. PURPOSE·. 
. . 
The purpose of this instruction is to set • forth the prohibitions and policy 
restrictions ( as distinguished from security restrictions) which currently per-· 
tain to the operational use of various categories of individuals, together with 
the special approval procedures to be followed in certain cases. Where ap­
propriate, reference has been. made to another publication which provides 
more detailed guidance than has been attempted in this instruction. The 
special approval procedures -set forth in this instruction do not· supersede or 
alter in any way the requirements for covert approvals contained in DOI 
and DOI-F 10-5.(a:tra.ckL&.) 
1 
SECRET 
---. ·--- ------·-----------· • ---------------·--- ·--·-· 
E-2 IMPDET • . I 
