13-00000 
/. ,:-, 
.; . 
104- I0332.-(0co7 
CONFIDENTIAL ~'~ 
l' 
7 January 1994 
( t)O ~ u\s/ 
Y°'IOAAAJ2..< 
~¼ "'-' 
MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA 
FROM: Bryant Rogers 
SUBJECT: 
REFERENCE: 
On 6 Jan we met with~~ .. ifl~frbm the DO to discuss HRG concerns with regard to CIA 's contacts in the 60's with well 
known Cubans and Cuban Organizations. . 
The outcome of this discussion was that the DO agrees that we can release the names of those major players with whom CJA 
worked with as long as we stay within the 60-63 time frame, with some overlap into 1964 for continuity, when needed. We then 
discussed our relationships with major anti-Castro organfzatlons. It was agreed that we could release the fact that as a funding vehicle 
for the US Govt, CIA provided support induding funding in general terms. In some cases we may find it necessary to reveal gross ballpark 
figures for annual budgets. The DO would prefer that we continue to protect specific funding amounts where possible. They were 
specifically concerned about releasing specific amounts paid to individuals or fanulies of Bay of Pigs members where individuals could 
claim that one was paid more than· another. In supporting these organizations it was acknowledged by thli DO that we could release 
generic operational activities such as publishing journals or financing goodwill tours by prominent exile Cubans tolatin America The DO 
reminded us that in reviewing these relationships with Cubans and organizations, it was important to protect CIA personnel, agents and 
assets and any specifics on tradecraft. • 
When asked about Bay of Pigs training sites, Linda felt that the actual location should still be protected in spite of the fact that 
they have been mentioned in open literature. 
With regard to DO location numbers (19 for Cuba) she thought this was OK for the 60-63 time frame.but would check with LA 
Div. She had no problem with the release of the Bell location m cables since it was no longer used. 
CC: J. Barry Harrelson @ DA 
Richard D. Kovar~Y· @DA 
John F. Pereira@ DA 
CONFIDENTIAL 
