[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
6B - D PART II. 
SECTION 6 ;. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
d. Each insert should be filed with the bulletin to v,hich.it ·relates.··· 
No indexing ot individual notices conta~ned therein is necessaryq . 
Each office must submit to the Bureau annuaily at least three suggestions 
for articles, identifying the suggested author, and briefly "describing 
the nature of the suggested article. The article should not be prepared, 
submitted, or mentiQned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained.·• Suggestions may cover any general or-· specific sub­
ject of law·enforcement interest, including the following: 
a. Better inve~tigative or administrative methods- and techniques of 
any nature, ~articularlj-ihose used or developed by FBI National 
Academy men • 
b. Improved or unusual equipment being used 
c. Complicated, unusual; and-well-handled cases which ·are:illustrative 
of law enforcement problems and excellent polio~ work 
q9 Human interest items from local police work 
e. Police and fire~rros t~aining subject~ -
f • Crime prevention ·articles from departments which have taken. aggressive 
action to combat juvenile delinquency ·:c • • .. 
go Transmit all rn·at erial to the: Bureau: under the:· caption.: 
'' • • .•·• FBI .Law 'Enfordement Bulletin·~·. 
Research (Cr-ii:ne Records) .. :-· 
C. SPEECHES . .:.. .. 
1. Bureau is to be notified of all speaking engagements. ,·Speaking· engage­
m~nts a.re to·~e handled·by the SAC. If he cannot handle them, the .A.SAC 
should. If neither can, an Agent previously apprQved $S.a speaker is 
to be designated and tp.e, -Bur~au a'dvised UACB •. Cha.nges in speaking en_gage­
ments must be communicated promptly to the Bureau. Three weeks prior to 
any radio or television[appearance, ]a manuscript of the[remarks]must be 
submitted for the Bureau's review and approval[unless previously approved 
Bureau material is utilized or the program is of an impromptu nature and 
time does not permit prior Bureau approval.) In some other cases involv­
ing important speeches, the Bureau will specifically request such manu­
scripts. If speech is to be broadcast or televised, prior Bureau approval 
of manuscript and commitment must be obtained. These ons, as 
well as all other FBI administrative procedures, should not be the sub­
ject of comment to the public. 
2. Copy of Bureau letter approving speaker should be placed in his field 
personnel file. . 
3 .. ~ach office is to designate a supervisor to handle speech material. 
To this supervisor must be routed law enforcement bulletins, FBI Notes, 
interesting case material, magazines, research literature, and newspaper 
clippings containing information of value to police instructors and 
approved speakers. This material to be indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in the speech material fileso 
D. INTERESTING C.A.SE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting oases may be: 
a. Requested by the BurDau 
b. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c. Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
c. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d. Novel investigations of human interest 
3 0 They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b. Bureau fil~ number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c, Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d. Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
f, In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence· 
2 
3-29-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 319 
; 
I 
( 
( 
' 
I 
\ 
