87D 
[ 
{5) 
_{ 6) 
Titl~ 5, USC, (§ 118p, llBq, and llBr (Public Law 330, 84th 
Cor•i;-=·~i:is, approved Y-9-55), pr.ohibits Goverrnn1,;nt employment of 
persons who arc disloyal or who assert the right to ntrike 
again!lt the Governmeut. The law provides tha"l. an :i.n<.lividual 
accepting office or er.:ployment in the Government o.f the U. s. 
shall, wi th:i.n 60 days, execute an n.f;fid::.vi·t certif"ying that -he 
does not advocate the violent overthrow of the u. s. Go....-ernment, 
etc. The execution of a false ~ffidavit constitutes a fraud 
on, or attempt to clcfrauci., the Govc:rnrnent within the p1.u:·view 
of Title 5, USC, § 93, so as to authorize Special Agents of the 
Bureau to administer oaths in invaatigations arisin~ out of this 
.law. Alleged violations of this law called to your attention 
should be furnished to the Bureau prompt]y ancl no inve~~tiga·tion 
should be initiated on the basis of complaints received withoat 
prior Bureau authority. Refer to section[69TT)of this manual 
entitled "Security of Govern.--;ient EmP.loyees -- F'raud Agn.ins t the 
Government" for procedures to be followed rcgardjng possible 
violations of this law discovered or received in connection with 
security of Government employees investigations. 
Title 18, USC,§ 1001, includes possible fraud against the 
Government violaticns wherein there are concealments or falsifi­
cations relating to subversive informati0n. These violations 
must be presented to the Department by the Bureau for a prose­
cutive opinion·rather than being presented locally to USt-s. 
They ardinarily involve the execution :of u. s. Goverrunent forms. 
Common violators are employees of private concerns having. 
Go,,-ernment contracts who execute Government forms required for 
clearance for access to classified information. • 
Upon receipt of information indicating a violation of ·this type, 
investigation u-nder the "Securj_,ty Natter - Fraud .!gainst the 
Government" character should be initiated and the Bureau immec.i­
ately advised. The Department. has advised tha~ it is cPsential, 
to establish jurisdiction, to prove that the form was p·~ -::: ~nted _ 
to a Government agency for action or determination. Th.: there­
fore, should be the first j_nvesti-gative st·ep. If the f,,, was 
not presented to a Government agency, .no further inYes tiJation 
should be made and the Bureau so advised. In this case, ftOwever, 
remain alert for information the form is later presented to 
Government agency. The fact subject actually signed the form 
must be established by testimony of witnesses to",the signature, 
handwriting examination, or other conclusive evidence. The· 
o~iginal of th~ form must.be located. Soufces thit £u~ni~hed 
pertinent information concerning subject during previous investi­
gations and other potential witnesses should be thoroughly inter-
·viewed to determine the basis for-each item.of pertinent infor­
mation furnished and to obtain the identities of other potential 
__ witnesses. Where affiliation with sµbversive organizations is 
:·.:-,._involved, interview individuals who were :oembers of·same units 
;"· o'f th~se organizations as subject for indicia of his membership; 
such as attendance at closed meeti·ngs, payment of due:;;, hoJ.d•ing 
of .office, etc. If possible, develop ~v±dence to supplant 
pertinent information furnished by current inf~rraants. Obtain 
prior Bureau authority to interview the subject. Interview sub­
ject and potential witnesses furnishing pertinent information 
under oath .and obtain sworn signed statements if possible. .A'n 
excf:?ption may be ma<3.e when interviewing cstabl"ished. sources, such 
a·s current informants, if oath and/or signed statements not con­
sidered desirable under circumstances. Be guided by instructions 
in section 6b, (7), below when interviewing potential witnesses 
with subversive backgroun~s. • 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 646 20 
:,....~ ...... .:Z~ 
}f, 
----~ ,-,,, 
·~: 
