ML: 
FS: 
ML: 
FS: 
ML: 
FS: 
ML: 
FS: 
ML: 
." FS: 
ML: 
-46-
I said Oleg's in the United Nations. Why don't you 
tell me these things before that they're delayed at 
a security council meeting, you know, instead of me 
letting, letting me sit there. You know these are 
all the little things that use to annoy me ... 
Yeah. 
that they have to screen things first before, you 
know - check things out, don't have to make a blunder 
like that. Anyway, I said I left Oleg a note. I 
said now you go home and I'm going to take it easy 
and they, we tried, and I said, "You know, John, 
you're just going to get me so involved with Oleg. 
I'm not going to end up in bed in a motel room 
upstate somewhere with Oleg so you can come in and 
take photographs. That's-not my stick." I said 
I'll gather garbage, get license plates, tape, do 
everything else, but, I'll ev.en take the mail, like 
I've been doing, but I'm not going to be caught in 
bed. I said that's too big a pawn for me and I'm 
not getting anything for it right now. They allowed 
me to take mail, steam it, photograph it and put it 
back. Some of that mail is now missing, which 
belongs to the Soviet people, which this perpetrator, 
perpetrator has and wants to blackmail me with and I 
asked the FBI to please help me with that. 
Who's the .perpetrator? 
The perpetrator is Guiseppi Faisiano, aka Pionne, 
aka David Ring, who broke into my· apartment and. stole • 
this tape with Oleg Likichev, these love conversations, 
the mail, and part of the Albanian code. He has those 
in his possession. He threatens my life with it. He 
threatens blackmail with me. He assaulted me. He 
pistol-whipped me and I asked the Bureau for help. 
Did he try to throw you out the 18·storybuild-, window? 
Yes. 
He did what? 
Yes, he tried to push me out the window. 
18 stories? 
Yes, and I told him stay away, get back, because if 
anything happens to me there's letters with the 
Justice Department naming everything I know about you, 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 228 
