·SECRET 
Betsy palmer 
File Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I - XVIII 
May l, 1978 
Volume XV - June 1964 
l. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 30 May 1964 - information from 
Rogelio Cisneros Diaz - as of 30 May 1964, Ray had not entered CUba. Boat 
to be used in final infiltration developed. motor trouble. JURE reps were 
caking all out effort to go to Ray's aid with replacement for boat ~nd an 
additional supply of drinking water. 
2. Cable to J!.f{Ai/E from DIR, dated 2 June 1961, Ref: WAVE 7218 (in 95616)* 
Please note similarities rumor reported. Ref Para 2 and statement attributed 
to Rogelio Cisneros that CIA had instructed .AMW0RID boats to fire on JURE 
boats per HAVE· 3691 (Ill 41477). Is this significant? 
* Artme's f'ollowers authorized. to attack any of Ray's or Gutierrez's men 
on high seas. 
2. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE dated 3 June 1964 .j stating that Ray and Andrew 
St. George were among the individuals arrested by the British near Cayo Largo. 
(Location of Anguilla Cay also used in cable). Detainees taken to Nassau. 
Tom Dunean, Lif'e photographer, also in group. 
3. Cable to DIR :fr()I;l J1.fJAVE, dtd 4 June 1964 - f.J!!J:AUP /2 reported that Ray's 
organization going to make press statement that Ray's failure to enter 
Cuba was fault of CIA. 
4. Cable to DIR from JM'dAVE) dtd 6 June 1964 reflects feelings of Cuban 
exile communi~y over Ray's failure to enter Cuba. 
a. • Ray made a fool of himself by taking a girl and two non-Cuban 
newsr:1en with hi:r:1, none of whome adapted to rigors of guerrilla 
warfare. 
b. British and U.S. participated in Tiay's capture 
c. ~ .. bole thing was a publicity stunt vhich went wrong. 
d. $nri~ue Huertas jubilant over Ray's disgrace, but feels it is 
a loss of exile prestige and harbingers bleak and hppeless period 
e. Dr. Antonio Maceo says many have lost faith in Ray for lack of 
accomplishment this past year. 
f. Ray is laughing stock. Those who had hopes now feel he is 
only an a.t1bitious politican not will to keep promises. 
g. JURE members confused and undecided over how to defend Ray. 
Alanis and Zarraga wish to remove their followers from JURE. 
h. Cisneros states to AMTAUP that Ray will accuse U.S. govt of 
treachery for cutting off economic aid one month ago and for 
searching his home, automobile and offices (CiGnero's?)(Photostats 
in volu,:ie XIV) 
SECRET 
