SECRET 
-3-
(b) Third Country Aid. The United S~tes has suggested a 
Saigon, and possibly a·iater·Washington meeting of donor·co.._ntr;y repre­
sentatives to coordinate aid' to Viet-Nam.· The intention is to stbmlate 
more third countey aid it p~ssible, and to _make sure that current third 
country contributions are being effectively applied. To date, Australia 
and New Zealand have indicated willingness to participate-in such meetings, 
Oennany will take part in informal Saigon meetings but would not attend 
any formal Washington gathering, and the Japanese are "Proceeding vi.th 
caution" because of the expressed tear thDt too close identification 
with the U.S. v:Lll open.up Japanese technicians in Viet-Nam to Viet Cong 
reprisals. ·canada has declined to participate because of its melllbership 
on th-a ICC. The Belgians , French, Italians and the UK have not yet . 
responded. 
Negotiations for the integrati~n of Australian trainers into 
our MAAG ap?>Sar near completion. The GVN has indicated its willingness to 
receive a Nev Zealand medical team at any time and the details are being 
worked out with Wellington and Saigon. 
10. Military Civic Action 
The 31st Engineer Battalion assisted the local population at 
Cheo Reo in Pleilcu Province in the construction of-a Buddhist temple. 
In addition to the 150,000 copies of a new sheet distributed weekly b7 
soldiers to the local civilian population, 3$,000 copies of the sheet 
were·also air dropped. 
12. Develop and Implement JtituaUY Agreed Plans . . 
9e!rations Binh Minh and Bai Yen. Saigon reports both clear­
and-hold operations cont1m.dng to make progress without serious VC reaction. 
Increased contact vith the VC is reported in the Hai Yen area, however, as 
the military' move into VC territory. 
Hamlet Councils have been elected in the Hai Yen area, but the 
Embassy notes a serious problem in the fact that a hamlet Couro;:11 member 
receives only 300 piasters (about $h.OO) per month for what is theoreti­
call.7 e full time job. In Operation Binh Minh, an effort will be made to 
induce the people to move voluntarily into the fourth village to be set 
up there. Tha plan calls for extensive propaganda and explanations in • 
advance of the move. establishment of militaey_control over the area so 
that the people will be free to move voluntarily, end up to 15 days to 
accomplish the move its~lt (previous regrouping actions allowed only a 
very short period r or the physical move) . 
Montagnards. Late~t information developed as a result ·of joint 
suneys indicates the Montagnard situation is more a long term problem 
than an emergency. Tl'iere bas in fact been a movement of some 17,000 Mon­
·tagnard as a reaction to Ve pressures, and this movement will probably 
continue; particulsrly if the GVN provides adequate food and security. 
SECRET 
. ' ; r \ ·. 
