'IOP SECRET - 4 -
reen used in the i:ositive sense under any of the circumstances referre:l to 
arove. There were, lnwever, sev-eral sitUclticn:s in which telephone tr1pes and 
covert recording cevices were employed by the Office of Security: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
A conversation which occurred in a motel retween 
Admiral Rufus Taylor, forrrer Deputy Director of :L:;:ij;,':lK:e, was 
U.f Adrriral Taylor for the 
not to divulqe sensitive 
oovertly recorded. This was a rreetin 
pur.:ose of atte.ITT[)ting to persuad 
information in a l::cok which he 
Interviews with defectors have been cover-J.y reaJrded from tiJre to t.:i..rre; 
With thP approval of Attorney General Katzenbach, a telephone t,-:,p was pla02d 
on the telephone of a CIA errplovee who was alleged to be a spy of a foreign 
country; 
Polygraphs of jcb applicants and sorre contractors have reen routinely 
covertly recorded; 
5. Tlie field offices of the CIA have from tL-re to tiJre installed covert 
recording devices to record cn.:v-ersations of CIA errployees wit-h others 
where there was sare reason to be concemed about the loyalty of such 
employees. In each instance the installation of such listening devices 
was e>..-pressJ y aporoved by the Director of Central Intelligence. Mr. Osror.i 
recalls only three such instances: 
a. In 1972-73 sucl1 a device was installed in an effort to uncover details 
where an old defector was being forced to make kickbacks of his ccnpef"l.sc1-
tion fran CIA to his CIA case officer; 
b. At a date which could not be recalled by Hr. Osrom a device had teen 
installed to record activity of a ferrale errployee of the CIA who had 
l::ecorre closelv and intimately associated with persons relieved to be 
dissidents; 
c. In about 1968 or 1969 at the request of Hr. Frank Bartamo of the Depart­
ment of Defense the CIA planted li!=.tening devices at the apartrrent of a 
serviceman doing highly sensitive cryptographic \I.Ork. This was cbr.e ....-it..~ 
the full kno.,,,ledge of Mr. William Sullivan of the FBI. Mr. Osrom sp.::ci..r 
lates that the CIA was called uoon to accorrplish this task for the De­
partment of Defense because Mr. Sullivan belieVed that J. Edgar Hoover, 
Director of the FBI, v,,Duld not approve. 
Hr. Osl:om states that there niay huve been ot:r.:...:::r instances \•.:here suc.'-1 list2~:-"j 
devi ccs w2re installed within the United States, but he does not recal 1 any 
others. He is ernph.J.tic to the effect that after President Johnson issued .:in 
ExecutiVe Order prohibiting telephone taps without the authority of the Attorney 
Genet·c1l, the CIA never to his knowledge covertly tapped a telephone within the 
United Stutes except in the one incidence c1uthorizcd 1-y Attorney General 
Katzenbach. 
TOP SF.X:RET 
NW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 10 
I ,. 
