with your cover designation, will normally be at the direction of the 
Foreign Service. Such travel will be accomplished in conformance with 
applicable regulations of the Foreign Service except when you are 
directed for operational reasons to perform travel in accordance with 
CIA regulations. 
4. You are entitled by this agreement to the payment of a post 
differential and allowances, based upon your CIA or Foreign Service 
salary rate, whichever is greater. Payment of your salary, poet differ­
ential a:a.d allowances by the Foreign S~rvice will be full compensation 
for your services when the total amount is equal to or greater than that 
payable by CIA. otherwise, the balance will be paid directly to you by 
CIA in a manner designated by you in vri ting and acceptable to CIA. The 
schedule of allovances applicable to your grade (CIA and Foreign Service) 
and poet of duty are subject to unilateral adjustment by the Government. 
5, Your status aa a CIA employee will continue in full force and 
effect dur1Dg your period of duty with the Foreign Service, and you will 
contmue to be entitled to all rights, benefits, and emoluments of such 
status. Certain variations in procedure will be required, however, to 
preserve the security of your cover position. 
a. All annual and sick leave which will h8ve accrued to your 
credit at the time of integration into the Foreign Service will be 
held by CI/I. pending your trana!'er from the Foreign Service to CIA. 
While assigned to the Foreign Service ;you will be permitted annual 
leava, sick leave, statutory leave, arid-leave without pay in ac­
cordance with the regulations of that orgaDizatian. Upon ccmpletion 
of your integration in the Foreign Service your accrued leave will 
normally be transferred to your credit with CIA. It' security con­
ditions require that you be given a lump-sum payment t'or accrued 
annual leave, you will be required to pay the gross amount of any 
such lump-sum payment to the CIA at the time of your reinstatemen:t: 
including WlY withholding tax deducted by the Foreign Service. 
b. Upon your integration in the Foreign Service, you will 
continue to be covered by the provisions of the Civil Service 
Retirement Act, as e.mended, and you will be subject to payroll 
deductions for retirement purposes (now six percent). 
6. If the CIA considers it undesirable for you to continue the use 
of your Foreign Service cover, your services will be utilized whenever 
possible in some other appropriate capacity as designated by CIA, unless 
the circum□ tMcea are such as to warrant your tennination for cause. 
7. Consistent 'With your cover acti"ity, you will continue t,o be 
responsible for compliance with CIA rules and regulations. 
2 
SECRET 
