( 
( [ 
f 
( 
.. ' 
SECURITY INVE~TIGAT. 87B 
i. Finances 
Special efforts must be made to locate and monitor bank accounts 
of organizations. Emphasis must be placed on determining if funds 
are being furnished organizations from foreign sources and if there 
is .any rapport between the organizations and organizations in foreign 
countries. 
j. Support given to or received from CPUSA or other communist group 
Develop evidence showing support, financial or otherwise, given by 
organization to CPUSA or other communist group or received by organi­
zation from CPUSA or other communist group. 
k. Implementation of CPUS.A. line or th.at of other communist gr_oup 
Usually shown through compar:i,son of programs and literature of ·organi­
zation with those of CPUS.A. or other c·ornmunist group d_uring _any partic-
ular p'eriod. • • • • • , •• 
1. Accuracy of identifications 
Use extreme care to assure statements relating to affiliations or 
membership in subversive organizations a.re acc11rate in all respects. 
Show exa.c·t basis, plus corroboration wherever possible, for identifi­
cation of suspected organizations or individuals with information of 
a possible subversive nature. Never refer to a person as a 11known 
communist" unless he is publicly known as such. 
m. Specific requirements for CPUSA investigations 
Follow previously established reporting format. New York is respon­
sible, in addition to reporting activities of New York District, for 
investigating and reporting separate),y on national committee meetings, 
national training schools, and other important national meetings. 
n. Socialist Workers Party {SWP) and other Marxist-Leninist or Trotskyist 
groups 
All offices submit semiannual reports and carry as pending inactive~ 
except New York whose report on SWP activities on national basis should 
be designated pending. New York also submit report on local SWP ac­
tivities. Indicate in cover pages whether all persons_ idantified in 
report as members of SWP or as members of other Marxist-Leni::iist or 
Trotskyist groups who reside within area covered by re porting office . 
are listed in[Administrative Index (ADEX),]or are informants or 
sources. List any exception by name and show status of investigation 
and state whether name has been furnished Bureau for indexing. 
Data concerning above topics can usually be secured through following· 
sources: confidential informants, incorporation records, bank records, 
literature and publications of organization, newspapers, public meetings 
and rallies, confidential investigative techniques, various public 
records, panel sources, confidential sources and other s o.urces of informa­
tion, interviews with past or present CPUSA members, rev_iew of field office 
files, pretext interviews, surveillances, Agents attending mass meetings, etc. 
4. Dissemination of information to Secret Service regarding plots against 
President 
On[ll-26-71,]an "Agreement Between the Federal Bureau of Investigation and 
the[United States]Secret Service Concerning[Protective Responsibilities 11 ] 
was signed and became effective. This agreement is set out in its entirety 
in section 102, volume IV, of this manual. Agreement provides that FBI, 
in its investigations of organizations whose activities are inimical to 
welfare of u. s., will be alert to and promptly notify Secret Service of 
any information indicating plot against person of the President. It is 
responsibility of Secret Service to initiate necessary action to ·neutralize 
such plot. 
a. Be alert during investigation of organization for information in­
dicating plot against person of President. Upon receipt, immediately 
furnish complete details to nearest office of Secret Service and 
appropriate local law enforcement agencies and advise Bureau by 
teletype, or telephone if facts warrant, of information furnished 
and fact it has been so disseminated. Attempt immediately to verify 
information, but do not attempt evaluation of information. 
15 
4-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1896 
I 
l 
I 
-·-i 
I 
' I l ! 
-I 
l I 
i 
