. 
.a 
in-re~ o~~H'K DUtBCTOa 
a PE•~TAL ATTENTION • ~ ' - 117' 
~ ~ •. ilt MEM~J..ANDUM 23-75 UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 
'WASHINGTON, D.C. %0535, 
May 27, 1975 
MEMORANDUM TO ALL SPECIAL AGENTS IN CHARGE: 
{A) INFORMANT MATTERS - DEFENSE PLANS' AND STRATEGY 
Recently there have been several instances where attorneys in connection 
with law suits have publicly and erroneously alleged that the FBI utilized 
informants to uncover defense plans and strategy. Also, recently ·a former 
informant falsely alleged that informa·nt's services were utilized by the 
.Bureau to infiltrate a defense camp. These accusations reemphasize the 
need for the careful and professional handling of informants at all times. 
As you are a ware under current policy, informants are advised 
to avoid becoming involved in defense plans or strategy in subversive-type 
cases or with anyone under criminal indictment. It is the responsibility 
of all Special Agents handling informa"n.ts to insure that their 'informants 
are continually alert so that they wiii avoid becoming involveu i11 defense 
matters and in the event an informant is requested to assist or partake in 
such matter:s, that the contacting Agent is immediately advised so that the 
matter wili be recorded. Ii i:ne iHiurwa11t cai.i.not n:..-oid being inv0J.~re0.; 
informant is not to report any information pertaining to defense plans or 
strategy and such incident must be promptly reported to the Bureau under 
the sµ.bstantive case caption. 
. ' 
In view of the above, the statement of cooperation normally 
signed by security and extremist informants is being amended to incorporate 
current policy regarding defense plans and strategy. Where it is not requ1red 
as in criminal informant cases or it has not been practical to obtain a state- • 
ment of cooperation, each handling Agent must orally advise the informant 
of the above, reduce it to writing, and record it in the informant's file. Insure 
that all pending informant files reflect the above as a matter of record. 
Manual changes follow. . ._ . 
Thk dociiment is prepared in 1·espon-~e to 't}Ou1· -;·eqi{es.t and 1s not,fo.r 4issemf. ... 
nation oiitside your Comniittee. Its -use i.'3 lin~ited to officiaL pro~eedings by 
your Commit.tee and the content .may not- be .. discloBe<J, to unauthorized .Pe:son,.. 
nel without the express approval of th£ FBI .- M K ll , Clarence . e ey 
• •• Director 
i
;i 5,-27-75 
MEMORANDUM 23-75 
l 
l 
" 
I . 
' -NW--31:t-lzr ld~~1--P:age-1-89----~ 
