SF 1 o o - 5 5 4 6 2Q C' oo 
1 
FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMIT'l':C:E 
The April 6, 19 6 0, edition of rrThe New York Times ri 
newspaper contained~ full-page advertisement captioned 
:'What Is Really Happening in Cuba, 
11 
placed by the Fair Play 
for Cuba Committee (FPCC). This advertisement announced 
the formation of the FPCC in lfow York City and declared the 
FPCC intended to promulgate :'the truth about revolutionary 
Cuba" to neutralize the distorted American press. 
0 The New York Times,; edition of January 11, 19 61, 
repo~ted that at a hearing conducted before the United States 
Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10, 1951, 
Dr. CHARLES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified himself and ROBERT TABER 
as organizers of the FPCC. He also testified he and TABER 
obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were applied 
toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement. 
On May 16, 1963, a source advised that during the 
first two years of the FPCC 1 s existe~2e there was a struggle 
betw~en Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party (SWP) 
elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby 
influence FPCC policy. This source added that during the 
past year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership 
to minimize the role of these and other organizations in the 
FPCC so that their influence as of May, 1963, was negligible. 
The SWP has been designat:ed by the Attorney 
General of the United States pursuant to 
Executive Order 10450. 
On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that 
VINCENT "TEDn LEE, FPCC Hational Office Director, was then 
formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no 
intention·of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any 
other organization. This source stated that LEE believed 
.that the FPCC should advocate resumption of diplomatic 
relations between Cuba and the United States and should 
support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution ··without 
interference from other nations. LEE did not advocate 
supporting the Cuban revolution per se. 
APPENDIX 
C.16 '"''"' 
NW 38613 Docld:34530150 72 
