IlJTERVIEW AND MEE'I'm:} SlfflARY Page par~/ 
The accepted view at CIA was that it was impor­
tant to determine if there was foreign support or 
sabotage training. After 1967, FBI-CIA contacts 
on this topic developed rapidly. There were few 
really valuable CIA results nor was much obtained 
through the FBI, the legal attaches, or informants 
going abroad. 
Papich referred to the climate of press commentary, 
assassinations, allegations of sabotage plans, and 
bombings. There was "a potential for panic within 
the intelligence community" since no one had the 
coverage they thought they needed. Travel of U.S. 
antiwar leaders to Communist nations seemed impor­
tant, although sometimes after inquiry the individuals 
were found not to be important. Therefore, time was 
spent on targets who should not have been targets 
but this was a new task. 
Hoover did not understand the issue. He thought 
New Left CPUSA links were most important. Papich 
never thought the CPUSA responsible for development 
of the New Left or SDS. CPUSA did try to use the 
New Left. Hoover assumed the Soviets controlled 
CPUSA day to day. Some of his assumptions had 
been proved wrong. In World War II days, yes, 
the Soviets used CPUSA for recruic~ent. In the 
late 4O's and 5O's, the Soviets changed their 
policy, no longer using CPUSA for this purpose. 
Hoover was never convinced of this change. Papich 
recognized the possibility that there might be a 
reversal of Soviet policy regarding CPUSA but 
Papich's top concern has always been KGB penetra­
tion of CIA, FBI, NSA, etc., as well as the question 
of how good the double agent~ are. 
Regarding the theory of KGB ai'.TIS) for using U.S. 
dissidents, the main problem was lack of knowledge. 
In the 4O's and 5O's, the FBI was confident of its 
knowledge of CPUSA and could assess its use to 
influence U. S. politics, but in the late 5O's 
the Bureau's coverage of new gr0ups was tremendously 
weak. The FBI recognized this. ?he :IA stressed 
it also for three reasons: (l) :~e increase in FBI 
requests for CIA information, (2) the White House 
requests, and (3) CIA officials ~wn concern about 
inadequate coverage. The concl~sion was that 
intelligence regarding people w~o went abroad was 
inadequate. 
NW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 14 
\ 
