c. 
D-.. 
( 
( 
-
PART II 
• 
6C' - D 
SECTION 6., PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
SPEECHES 
1. The speech program is the personal responsibility of the SAC, and the 
SAC or ASAC should handle principal commitments. If neither available, 
these can be handled by an experienced and well-informed ~gent 
approved for the commitment· by the SAC or ASAC. Good judgment should 
dictate when a manuscript should be submitted to FBIHQ for approval in 
advance of a speaking engagement, particularly in regard-to radio ~nd. 
television appearances. 
2o It is not necessary to advise FBIHQ of each speaking engagemento Each 
office will maintain for a minimum of o,1e year and one regular office 
inspection a control file in connection with acceptances and declinations 
of speech- invitationso Each y_ear. on January 10th and on July 10th. 
each office will submit to FaIHQ a statistical report of speaking 
commitments handledo This will be divided into engagements by the SAC, 
the ASAC., and other Agent Supervisors; and will be further subdivided· 
into speeches as well as radio, television, and Career Day appearances 
by these three groups._ [In addition, identify the_ 10 most important 
speeches given during the 6-month period covered by the report and 
indicate who gave themo] 
3. Each office should maintain a speech material file for the use of speakers. 
This should include Law Enforcement Bulletin items, interesting case 
material, magazine articles, research literature, newspaper clippings 
pertaining to law enforcement matters of interest, and items of value in 
connection with public appearances of Bureau representativeso • In additioµ 
to being maintained in current status, this ~peech material should be 
indexed as to subject matter in the office files .. 
INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1 o Write-ups of interesting cases may be·: 
a. Requested by the Bureaµ .. 
bo Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
Cn Suggested qy o½her offic~s • 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a .. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
Co Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
do Novel ·investigations of human interest 
3 .. They are. prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
bo Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
do Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
fo In chronoiogical or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
ho To include as many pertinent photographs as possible to make the 
write-up interesting,. The phot9graphs should not necessarily be of 
subjects alone but should be of paraphernalia used by the criminal 
photographs of unusual loot obtained, scenes of various locales etc .. 
If photographs submitted do not belong to the FBI, it is necess~ry to 
inform the Bureau of their source and whether the owner of the photo­
graphs has any objection to their being reproduced in publicationso 
io Each portion of the write-up -:-hou~d be docum~nted as to the identity 
of the report or other communication from which facts i'lere taken .. -The 
document~tion should ?e set oft by pa~enthese~ and follow immediately 
the portion of the write-up to which it pertains .. 
2a 
1-27-75 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1110 
