:':·· .. 
. . ~:-~· 
1 
Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan 
.RE: LUNCHEON ENGAGEMENT OF THE.DIRECTOR 
WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND 
MR. SARGENT SHRIVER, DIRECTOR OF THE 
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY 
DURING WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 18, 1967 
Washington, D, C. 
Individuals affiliated with two organizations funded 
in part by OEO were involved in the disturbance which occurred 
in the House of Representatives on ·8/7 /67 in protest··of the 
shelving of the so~called l'Rat Bill." The leader, Jesse Gray, 
a for. mer Corrnnunist Party org.anizer in Harlem and a militant black 
nationalist, is the head of the Harlem ~ack Street Youth, Incor- 1:_ .. · 
porated, which was the ·recipient of OEO funds. Such funds have 
since been suspended. Gray and·at least one other member"of the ~.!·· 
above organization were arrested for their part in this disturbance. i: 
Also involved in this disturbance and arrested was Robert Bailey 
Ransom, an employee of Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) 
Associates, an GEO-funded organization. 
Hate-type Schools 
The New York City Police.Department advised on 8/9/67 
that the walls of a school handling a program entitled "Special 
Training in Reading" for children 8 to 10 years of age contained 
numerous. hate slogans. Examples.of the signs noted thereon were 
"Don't love them to death, shoot them to death; make revolution· 
not war; burn, baby, ··burn; arm yourselves; Johnson is losing 
sleep; Newark, '67; Chicago South Side, '66; Watts, '65, and 
Harlem, . '64." There was also a picture of President Johnson's 
face superimposed on an Army .sergeant carrying a rifle captioned 
"Public Enemy Number One, Wanted for Murder." .The committee 
handling this particular pro-gram was funded in part by OEO. 
' A somewhat similar situation occurred in Nashville, 
Tennessee, in connection with a "Liberation School" which has 
been in operation teaching 10-and. ll~year-olds. Antipoverty 
funds from OEO had been earmarked for the school; however, the . 
funds were .. withdrawn when national publicity·resulted concerning 
this matter. Meantime, however, certain services including the 
ental of an automobile and school supplies had been furnished. 
i 
