R~: NlvPC Policy Council Meeting 
As the youth organization of the SWP, the 
YSA serves ns the main source of recruitment into 
that organization. The YSA is dBscribed in the 
masthead of its official publication, "'!'he Young 
Socialist Organizerr
11 
as "a multinational 
revolutionary socialist youth organization." 
During the council meeting on June 24, 1972, ~-1ary 
Clarke, who is associated with the Southern California WPC, 
an affiliate of the NWPC·, advised a group of t;,olicy .,.council 
JT!embers that 'ivONAAC had been using the Southern California WPC 
name as. an endorser of WONJI..AC. Clarke also stated that ~·TQrJAltC 
had passed out propaganda at a caucus rally in California and 
,-,ere very effective at taking control of small gatherings. 
The Chairwoman from Nassau Countv in New York, whose 
name was not recalled, defended WON.~;.C statincr that "thev were 
a good group 1:. This ,,;oman I s position w2.s not .. su-pported -~nd, 
in general, WON.!1.AC literature was not accepted bv those uersons 
present. Jill Ruckelshaus, a new mewber of the Policy Council, 
is reportedly concerned about the SWP's attempts to align 
itself ·with the abortion rooverrient and will be usincr her newlv 
gained position to fight SWP attempts at control of local -
't·JPC groups. 
The N\'.JPC organizing brochure nuhlished by the N1·1PC 
has been written to assist individual ~-1PC groups in organizing. 
The brochure lists political oarties and ~ara-oolitical 
organizations to be cont2.cted bv caucus organizers ·when forminq 
the nucleus of a WPC. Arnonq those listed was the si·.7p. .i;\fter 
discussions at the caucus it was deterr.iined th.at the SWP should 
be removed from the 15.st. The new edition o-f: the T•!PC organi zinq 
brochure will not list the S1:'7P; it has been reolaced bv National 
Peace Action Coalition (NPAC). - • 
'l'he NP.AC was founded in 1970 bv Il'emhers of the Sv!P. 
Its basic objective is to unite masses of people 
including labor unions, Gis, anc the black 
comrrnmi ty in the struggle to end United Sta.tes 
intervention in Southeast Asia through orderly and 
peaceful tactics. 
This docur-1.ent contains neither recornrnendat'ions nor conclusions 
of the FDI. It is the nronertv of the T'IH ,rnd is loaned to vo,.1r 
agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside 
your agency. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989545 Page 391 
