FBI that Rosselli wanted' to "keep 
square with the bureau" but was . : 
afraid that the mob might.kill·him for 
1 
talking. '. . 
In 1967. after he was arrested 'for 
gambling fraud at the Friars Club: in 
Beverly Hills, Rosselli approached his 
former CIA case-officer, William Har­
vey. who sought unsuccessfully }o·in· 
tercede in the prosecution. 
It was against this background that 
Morgan went, first to Drew Pearson, 
and then the FBI, with ,Ross~lli's sen­
sational allegations of CIA plotting 
against Castro and the Cuban counter­
espionage dir~cted against 'President 
Kennedy. • ' • ' • 
Last April Rosselli told ·the Senate 
Intelligence Committee h'e had no'rec­
ollcction. of either receiving informa-
• t ion that Castro retaliated against 
President Kennedy or of: having 'dis­
cussed it with Morgan. This meant ei-' 
ther that Rosselli suffered a dramatic • • 
memory loss or that Morgan's state- -
ment to FBI agents nine years earlier 
was a pure invention. a serious risk 
.for an established Washh1gton lawyer. 
No committee source could explain 
!he discrepancy, and Morgan declined 
to confirm that Rosselli was the client 
• in question or to discuss either his 
allegations against the Cuhan govern­
ment or his recent testimo·ny. 
The internal FBr memo on the 1967 
interview with Morgan was sent, to 
headquarters with a transmittal slip 
saying: "No further investigation is 
being conducted by the Washington 
field office unless it is advised to the 
contrary by the Bureau." 
The Senate intelligence committee, 
in commenting on this position, said 
that "had the interviewing age1its 
known of the CIA-underworlc;i plots 
against Castro, they would have been 
aware that the lawyer had clients who· 
had been active, in the assassination 
plots." 
On March 21, -,F,BI headquarters for­
warded the Washington field office 
memo to the White House!, the attor­
ney general and the Secret Service . .It 
did not recommend any further in­
vestigation of Morgan's allegations. 
On the evening of. the following 
day, President Johnson called CIA Di­
rector Richard M. Helms to the White 
House. The next morning; March 23, 
Helms ordered the CIA inspector gen• i 
era! to prepare a report on the CIA , 
involvement in the assassination plots 1 
-Operation Mongoose-of which :: 
Ilclms had full k·nowledge at the time·1 
they were executed. ' • I· • I . . 
By !VIay 22; Helms briefed President; 
.Johi1soi1 on the results. There is. how-·· 
ever. no evidence that Helms briefed. 
the President on the November, 1963, '. 
plo~-:::::::one of eight major schemes on . 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 401 
- 3 -
Gastro's life fro111 I fl60 to 1965-to as­
sassinate tile Cuban leader through 
the employment of an agent with the 
eryptonymn A MLASH. His identity 
was • revealed as Rolando Cubela, a 
1961 CIA "recruit" with close access 
to Castro. · · 
CIA operatives turned over assassi­
nation ( equipment to Cubela during a 
• Paris meeting on November 22, 1963- • 
the day President Kennedy was killed 
, in Danas. There has been subsequent 
•. speculation that· the mercurial and 
• ·talkative I Cubela was either a double 
agent or being, monitore'd. by Cu'ban 
:intelligence. •• • • 
During the later days· of _his presi..'­
dency, Mr, Johnson spokE! c'ryptically 
of a ·"Caribbean Murder Ineorpo• 
rated" targeted 'against, Fidel Castro. 
The inspiration for· that statement un-.' 
:.· doubtedly wns· the CIA inspector gen-·, 
i, eral',s report he ordere'd,'Helms·to.have 
~,prepared. • • ••• • • , 
Within the past year, ~osselli, and 
two of his co-conspirators in the Cas­
: tro assassination schemes have died, 
Giancana at the hands of a profes-
• sional. hit man and Harvey as the .re­
sult ·of a ·"massive heart attack"· last 
June, 
•. Mrs. William Harvey, the widow of 
the deceased CIA I official. said she 
• suspected no foul play in her hus, 
l>anq's death. She did, however, ten. 
•· The_ Washin;;ton Post that she re­
ceived a call nfter Rosselli'5 disappear­
a1.1ce in late .July warnmg her that Cu-· 
bans appeared to be attempting to 
wipe out all those who participated in 
the anti-Castro plots. : 
The call, she said, came from an old 
friend who was acquainted with Ros­
selli!s sister, whose name is Edith Dai­
gle: Mrs, Harvey said that Mrs. Daigle 
told the mutual acquaintance that ,the 
Rosselli family had received a tele­
phone threat from unidentified Cu­
bans prior to Hosse!Ws disappearance. 
•· She also sai_d that Rosselli had g011e to 
meet the Cubans in an effort to pro-
tect _his family. • 
Mrs, Daigle could not be reache(\ by 
The Washington Post. But another sis­
ter of Rosselli said she had heard of 
no such threats or warnings. 
Harvey, who died at age 60 and 
• whose exploits as a clandestine opera­
tor are both legendary and controver­
sial within the agency, testified to the 
Senate Intelligence Committee. Ht 
had become Rosselli's case officer in . 
Operati~n Mongoose and supplied the 
mobster with poison pills, explosives, 
detonators, rifles, .handguns, radios 
and boat radar for transmission to 1 
anti-Castro Cuban agents. Harvey and. • 
.~ Ross~lli. ·a CIA superior testified to 
. the Senate committee, "developed a 
• close friendshin." 1 •• • • 
Another CIA offk!ial who worked 
with Rosselli, James:n. 0 nnell. was 
asked if he knew wh he agency 
transmitted information I to the mob­
ster on possible Cuban involvement in 
' the Kennedy assassination. He replied 
that he was out of the qountry at the 
time Kennedy was kill,d, and had no 
,-: _further cor;nment. , ;1 • 
, Two months before 1tpe Kennedy as­
sassi~1atio~,. Lee _Harvray Oswald, who 
was 1dentif1ed by the· atren Commis­
sion as Kennedy's mu derer, had trav­
eled to Mexico City 'in an attempt to 
gain entry to Cuba. According to the 
Warren Commission, Oswald repre­
sented himself as the head of the New 
Orleans branch of the Fair Plav for 
Cuba organization and a friend ~f the 
:. Cuban Revolution. 
Some three months before Kennedy 
was killed, Castro told Associated 
Press reporter Daniel Harker that 
U.S. leaders aiding terrorist plans to 
eliminate Cuban -leaders would them-
selves not be safe.· • 
A U.S. government committee c~or­
dinating policy toward Cuba at the 
- , time agreed there is a strong liklihood 
that Castro would retaliate in some 
fashion. Howeved, it concluded Castro 
would not risk ~ major eonfront.ation 
with the U1S. by attacking U.S. lead­
ers. 
On the same clay Kennedy was as• 
sassinated, a CIA officer met with a 
high-rankingr Cuban official, who had 
said he would kill Castro, to tell him 
the U.S. would provide him wit.h ex­
plosives and a poison pen device. 
While the Senate Intelligence Com­
mittee said it found no evidence Htfl:i­
cient to justify a conclusion that the 
Kennedy assassination was part of a 
conspiracy, it also said .U.S. 'agencies 
did not Properly investigate the· assas­
sination :Or tell the Warren Commis­
sion about t_he CIA plots on Castrn's 
life. 
"There is no indication that the FBI 
or the CIA directed the interviewing 
of Cuban sources or sources within 
the Cuban exile community," the Sen­
ate committee said. 
According to a former FBI official 
in charge of key aspects of the FBI's 
probe of the Kennedy murder .. the 
FBI never satisfactorily determined 
\j'hat Oswald planned to do in Cuba or 
what he had done in Russia. 
