. . 
• 
NW 
ti- \, •. 
DEPARTMENT'S MANUAL FOR USE OF ELECTRONIC 
SURVEILLANCE UNDER;TITLE III OF.OMNIBUS 
CRIME CONTROL BILL 
·The Attorney General has been furnished our views 
with regard to the Departmentis·draft manual for use of electronic 
surve~llance pursuant to Title III; The general provisions of 
this lengthy manual, much of which concerned administrative 
regulations not specifically required by the statut~-- itself, 
would impose tremendous administrative and procedural restrictions 
on the FBI and other Federal agencies to the point that strict 
compliance might be self-defeating to the goal of maintaining 
discreet electronic surveillance coverage under court supervision 
for the purpose of obtaining admissible evidence against the 
leadership of organized crime and in other major investigative 
categories. These re~uirements involve an investigative agent's 
application for intercept authority to be reviewed by a 
comparatively wide range of authorities including the Orginized 
Crime and Racketeering Section of the Department, in many cases 
the United States Attorney, the Assistant Attorney General, 
Criminal Division, and finally the· Attorney General before the 
request even reached the court which, according.to the provisions 
of this statute, is the ultimate a~thority and control in•the 
use of this procedure. This process would, of necessity, be 
. time-consuming, cumbersome, and, at certain points, repetitious, 
and would spread the knowledge oj the use of this technique 
among a number of different governmental offices. 
We noted that the draft manual made repeated reference 
to the problem of probable cause becoming "stale" and observed 
that the sheer.weight ·of the deliberative process at various 
approving levels before it even reached the judge could alone 
result in the probable cause becoming "stale." We also noted 
that requirements involving daily memoranda to the United States. 
Attorney concerning the progress of a court authorized surveillance 
and other similar administratfve requirements would tend to place 
burdens on investigating agents·which could detract from the 
ultimate purpose of our use of this technique. 
:rn connection with· the manual 1s requirement that • 
an authorized surveillance be terminated when the subject of 
the surveillance departed the premises covered, we questioned 
that such a requirement was called for in the statute and whether· 
- 24 -
.• P'aye22J 
, 
\ \ . i 
\ 
I 
' 1 
1 
i 
\ 
\ 
