14-00000 
Executive Order 
8 October 1997 
JFK Records Review Project 
(U) The following is intended as a guide for those 
people whose work requires them to review Agency documents 
and materials that may be subject to the President John F. 
Kennedy Assassination Records ·Collection Act of 1992. 
Some of the records within th~.Agency's JFK collection are 
assassination specific, others.are ancillary. They deal 
with individuals and events not directly linked with Oswald 
or the assassination; but they are thought to have had a 
relationship to the assassination;or investigation into the 
assassination. • •• 
I. The Agency's JFK Collection. 
(U) The Agency's JFK records collection is made up 
primarily of records pulled together for the Warren 
Commission and House Select Committee on Assassinations 
(HSCA). There were eighty-one (81) Records Center-sized 
boxes in the original collection. Of these, the first 
seventeen (17) made up the Oswald 201 file. The next sixty­
four (64) are referred to as the "JFK files" or sequestered 
collection and break down as follows: thirty-four (34) boxes 
of DO materials; nine (9) boxes of Office of Security files; 
fifteen (15) boxes of OLC materials; two (2) boxes each of 
OGC and IG materials; and one (1) box of DDS&T documents. 
HSCA originated material, including notes by HSCA staff 
members, are found throughout the collection. Box 64 
contains seventy two (72) reels of microfilm . 
• , (U) The microfilm contai.ns copies of complete files to 
which the HSCA had access during its investigation. In 
addition to the Oswald 201 file (12 reels), the microfilm 
includes: 201 files on CUbans, Americans, -and Soviets linked 
to Oswald, the JFK assassination or the various 
investigations (approximately 26 reels)and the Cuban 
Revolutionary Council and other exile group activities 
(approximately 13 reels); the personnel files of CIA staff 
employees (approximately 5 reels); and op~rational files on 
organizations, projects, and other subjects of interest to 
the HSCA investigation (approximately 16 reels). 
CL BY: 61163 
CL REASON: . (c) 
DECL Xl 
FRM: LOC 3-82 
-5li:CRE'i' 
