( 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
6B - D 
SECTION 6. 
- PART II -
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
d. Each insert should be filed with the bulletin to which it relates~ 
No indexing of individual notices containe~ therein is necessary. 
Each office must. submit to t:he Bureau annually a:t least three suggestions 
for articles, identifying the suggested author, and briefly describing 
t.he nature of the suggested article.: The article should not be prepared, 
·submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author· until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any gen~ral or specifiQ sub-
ject of law enforcement interest, inoluaing the.following: • 
a. Better investigative or administrative methods and techniques of 
any nature, particularly t~ose_used or developed ?Y FBI ~ational 
Academy men . . .. 
b. Impro,red or 'tg1usual equipment being used 
o. • C.omplioated, -~_nusual,. and well-hand_led· oases which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems and excellent· p9lioe work 
4 9 Ruman interest items from local police work • 
e. Police and firearms training- subjects 
f. Crime prevention articles from d apartments which have taken aggressive 
action to combat juvenile delinquency 
g. Transmit all mater~al to _the Bureau u~de~·the caption:. 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research (Crime Records)· 
SPEECHES 
1. Bureau is to be notified of all speaking engag~ment s. • Sp;eakin.1/ engage­
ments are to be -handled by the S.A.C. If he Ol1nnot handle· them, the A.SAC 
.should. If neither pan, an .A.gent previousiy approved as a speaker is 
to be designated and the. BurE1au· advi_sed ti.A.CB. Ch"ange's i'n speaking en_gage­
ments must be communic·ated promptly to the Bureau. Three: weeks- prior to 
any radio or television(appearance,]a manuscript of the(remarks]must be 
submitted for the Bureau's review and approval(unless previously approved 
Bureau mater"ial is utilized or· 'tlie program is _o_f an impromptu· nature· and 
time does not permit prior Bureau approval.'] In some qther cases involv­
ing important speeches, the Bureau will specifically request such ma.nu~ 
scripts. If speech· i.s to· be broadca,st o·r televised, prior Bureau approval 
of manuscript ~nd commitment must be obtained. These regulations, as 
well as all other FBI aqministrative _proce_dures, should not be the sub­
ject of comment to 'the public". 
2. Copy of Bureau letter. approving spe.aker should be placed in his_ field 
personnel file. . • • • 
3. ~aoh office is to designaie a iupervisor to handle speeoh'material. 
To this supervisor must be routed law enforcement bulletins, FBI Notes, 
:i.nterE!sting. case material, magazines, research literature, and-newspaper 
olipping-s containing information of value to 'police instru·ctors and 
approved speakers. This material to b.e indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in the speech material files. • • .•. 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
·1. Write-ups of interesting oases may be: 
a. Requested by the Bureau 
b. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c. Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
o. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d. Novel investigations of human interest 
3. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b. Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d. Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
f. In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
2 
3-29-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 275 
,. 
I 
( 
