• I 
l 
' 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
107U SECTIOH 107~ SECURITY. INFORMAlTTS Ann cmrFID,TI.AL SOURCES 
5. Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used for assistance in ~ecurity 
investigations, secure Bureau appro-ral, and background data must 
be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is required 
for potential security informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in wh'ich the 
frequency of contact is dependent upon circumstances of the individual 
case, confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained should 
also be contacted at least once e-,ery two weeks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
c. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending f~les 
may be posterl. 
d.. Con·t;ac.ts with confidential sources should only be made by the Agent 
or Agents specifically designated for that purpose. 
e. The letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use a subject 
as a confidential source is to set out clearly the following informa-
tion: . 
( l} Back.ground information, including date and pla~e of birth, 
citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest 
record, and service record, if any 
( 2) Details of· the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together with the results of any 
interviews conducted with him • 
( 3) .A statement to the effect subject is being considered a con­
fidenti"al source and that he will be advised he is no·b a 
Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
s:g_ip with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters. 
f. One of the required copies of ·l;he le·t;ter requesting authority to use 
a s:ubject as a confidential source should consist only-_of the first 
page of the letter. If the request is approved at the Bureau, a 
stamped notation will be placed on the sing~e-page copy· and it will 
be returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to • 
consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subject is 
suf_ficiently cooperative ·and all necessary background information 
. obtained. 
6. Security confidential sources - cer.tification of stability and payments 
a. Every four months·a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security confidential 
sources. See 107N, '3b·, ·for form. of. letter.,, • , .. 
b. If the security source is not being paid on Bure.au authorization and 
is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source must dictate 
a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification 
as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters. 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such action~ might ~e 
misconstrued. 
8, Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau when confidential source is d.iscont-inued, and the reason:s· 
ther,efor, 
28 
1-13-64 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1562 
.. 
( 
