13-00000 ___ . 
~:: .-~ 
_ <>-? ~ eu-4 · DRAEI 
.,, 1k /A,- ~ {,/~/'17-
SUGGESTED AREAS TO BE ADDRESSED IN REPORT LANGUAGE 
(:tF NOT ADDRESSED IN THE TEXT OF THE RESOLUT.ION) 
1. Initial Reyiew of assassination materials . .It 
should be made clear that section 5 of H.J.Res. 454. which 
requires that records not provided to the Archivist for 
public disclosure be made available to the Review Board 
within 60 days of enactment, is not intended to preclude 
agencies from conducting their own reviews and making as 
much information available as possible before the Review 
Board conducts its review of assassination materials. 
Suggested clari£¥ing report language: 
The Committee notes that some agencies, such as the -
Central Intelligence Agency, have already begun to 
review and release assassination materials. Section 
S(a) (2), which requires that all records of an official. 
investigation for which an agency is custodian be made 
available to the Review Board within 60 days of 
enactment of the Joint Resolution, is not intended to 
preclude agencies from continuing any reviews that they 
have ongoing and transferring documents to the Archives 
for public release wherever possible. In, fact the 
Committee encourpges such reviews to continue inasmuch 
as they can provide for more expeditious release of 
assassination materials to the public. 
2. •Third agency rule• adhered to in review of documents. The legislation on its face does not necessarily 
provide that the agency or department that originated the 
info::anation will have any input into a decision to disclose 
the record, or will even be apprised of such a decision 
after the fact. Suggested.clarifying report language: 
The Committee understands that existing regulations 
within the Executive Branch require that classified 
information originated in one agency may not be 
disseminated outside another agency to which it has 
been made available without the consent of the 
originating agency. The Committee expects that 
agencies that are custodians of records will follow 
this practice before providing information to the 
Archivist under section S(a) (1) for public release 
pursuant to section 4. 
Section S(a} (2) requires agencies that are custodians 
of records of official invest~gations to make such 
records available to· the Review Board. The Board will 
then make a determination of whether the material 
qualifies for postponement under the criteria set forth 
