:\· 
\ 
_; 
-15-
..,,..-·. -,\ 
i"" \ 
c . 
. ! 
CIA Views'of Difficulty of Project 
\, 
.-i ·-_\On one point the testimony of CIA offi.cia.1s who were involved in 
Track II is unanimous: they all said they thought Track II was unlikely 
to succeed. That view ran from the working levels of the Agency to the 
top. They all said they felt they were being asked to do the impossible, 
that the risks and potential costs of the project were too great. At 
the same time, they felt they had been given an explicit Presidential 
order, and they tried to execute that order. 
A few excerpts from the testimony follow: 
Richard Helms, CIA Director -
.. . my heart sank over this meeting, because ... the 
possibility of bringing off something like this 
seemed to me at that-time to be just as remote as 
anything could be. In practical terms, the Army 
was constitutionalist. ... And when you look here at 
the time frame in which the man was suddenly asking 
you to accomplish something, it seemed really almost 
inconceivable .... 
What I came away from the·meeting with 
the distiµct impression that we were being 
asked to do almost the impossible and trying 
to indicate this was going to be pretty tough .... 
(Helms testimony, July 15, 1975, pp. 6-7) 
David Phillips, Chief, Chile Task Force -
... it is my feeling that the odds are unaccept­
able, it is something that is not going to .work, 
• and we ar-e • going to be burned -Tr-·we get into it 
... what are the chances of pulling off a coup 
successfully, or in any way stopping Allende from 
assuming the presidency? ... we never even got to 
two chances out of 20. (Phillips testimony, p. 16) 
... I assure you that those people that I 
was in touch with at the Agency just about univers­
~;lly said, my God, why are we given this assignment? 
(Phillips testimony, p. 53) 
James Flannery, Deputy Chief, Western Hemisphere Division -
There was just no question that we had to make 
this effort, no matter what the. odds were. And 
I think that most people felt that the odds were 
just pretty ·long. (Flannery testimony, p. 20) 
Hlf 50955 Docid:32423525 Page 89 
-
,---
!, 
1111,,:, 
t«r·, 
f;,•· 
