13-00000 • 
•. 
4. Duration: The team's first obiective will be to 
render an 1nter1m report to the Committee by 1 January 1977, 
in order to meet the mandate that the survey be used in. 
considering the Agency's FY 1978 budget. The team wishes 
to start work immediately and will consist of either six or 
seven mem~ers who will occupy.space in Headquarters building 
and presumably do most of their work here; it was brought 
out, however, that the team would also interview users of 
our intellige~ce and other collectors. There was ambiguity 
in the projection of the total length of the survey; I 
interpreted Mr. Anderson's remarks to indicate that he 
expected the team to be with us for most of calendar year 
1977. 
S .. Security: Mr. Anderson explained the arrangement 
by which the Committee limits access by even the members of 
the Subcommittee to the reports of his group; they must be 
reviewed in a specified area and they are stored, in very 
limited riumbers, in the tower of the Capitol in the special 
facilities there for the Joint Atomic Energy Committee of· 
Congress. Mr. Gambino explained the arrangements for badges, 
certification of clearances, and provided for the team's 
consideration a copy of the "non-disclosure agreement" which 
we would like members to sign. There was considerable 
discussion, and some objection, to the issuance of blue 
badges which will provide access to virtually all parts of 
the building but which must be turned in and picked up at 
the entrance each day. This arrangement was reluctantly 
accepted but it was made clear at lunch and in later 
discussion with the team and with Mr. Anderson they are 
unhappy with this slight infringement on their convenience 
and physical access to the building. 
6. Access: Of more concern was the Agency position 
that the SA/D0/0 would serve as a control point for the 
team's further access to individuals and documents in the 
Directorate. The requirement was explained in terms of the 
~·need to record, against later requirements such as in fact 
now in progress stemming from another investigation, the 
names, subject matter and general content of matters discussed 
by Agency officers with team members. The requirement to 
"monitor" was explained as an effort to keep this type of 
record, rather than to impose a third party from the office 
of SA/D0/0 on all interviews; the latter was clearly 
considered by the team to be an unreasonable intrusion. It 
was agreed after some discussion that we would proceed with 
3 
