13-00000, 
! ti 
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD 
SECRET 
EYES ONLY 
18 April 1963 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group 1 18 April 1963 
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone 
The Attorney General, General Taylor, Mr. Murrow, and 
Mr. FitzGerald were present for Item 1. 
1. Cuban Operations 
Mr. FitzGerald said that in view of the postponement of the 
meeting tentatively set for tomorrowwith higher authority, the 
proposed sabotage actions for April will be cancelled and two caching 
operations, in Pinar del Rio and Matanzas, will be substitu~ed. The 
Group approved this. 
Mr. FitzGerald told the Group that in view of the negative 
decision on balloons, he was proposing to dismantle the capability, 
which is expensive to keep in being. He said that if it were desired 
to start the program up at any time after dismantling, it would take 
about three months. A number of members of the Group felt that in a 
real crisis balloons could be of considerable value. Accordingly, it 
was agreed that balloons and helium should be stockpiled, with the 
idea that if a situation should arise in which balloons would be use­
ful, launching could be accomplished by a·U.S. vessel, without worrying 
too much about attribution under·those circumstances. In coJJUDenting 
on his opposition to the earlier proposition, Mr. Murrow said that he 
believes that balloons can be useful as a part of an integrated 
program. 
The Group then turned to discussion of the papers from the Co­
ordinator of Cuban Affairs dated April 16th, 17th, and 18th. It was 
noted that there had not been time for adequate staffing of these papers 
and that the principals had not been able to examine them carefully. 
In this connection, Mr. McCone said that he wanted the Office of 
National Estimates of CIA to review the papers, in light of their 
estimative content. It was thus agreed that the papers should be 
staffed and sharpened up for presentation at next week's meeting. Mr. 
Johnson suggested that a possible format might be to produce one paper 
which would be prefaced by the guidelines currently contained in the 
• Coordinator's paper of April 18th. This would be followed by a 
·sUDBDary of sabotage capabilities and the pros and cons of various 
types, and then recouunendations. 
SECRET 
EYES ONLY 
