) 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
SECTION °107 •• ECURITY INFORI"i.AN'rs AHD CONFID.AL SOURCES 107!1 
4. Subfiles 
a. A subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where a 
subfile is necessary only in those instances involving possible 
prosecution. The original of each statement, whether personally 
written by the infr.rmant or furnished orally and reduced to writing 
by contacting Agent, should be filed in this subfile, Executed form 
FD--306 or a channe-lizing memorandum containing all applica·ble items 
set forth on form FD-306 should be stapled to the original of each 
such statement. 
b, Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for secure 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any portion 
of statements or notations thereon. 
5, Channelization 
Excerpts from the iniormant•s statement are to be included in the regular 
investigative case report when information of value is submitted, Form 
FD7306 may be used to disseminate this information to the case file in 
lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired, If so used, prepare copies 
of FD-306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each ·iy 
o;:e the informant's statement being channelized, Channelization s;. .'Ld be 
noted on original FD-306 and on all copies under "Remarks, 11 
(6. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of following submission of reports 
in security cases 
For instructions concerning the destruction of channelizing memoranda 
in security oases fol1owing submission of reports, see volume III, 
section·87D, item 7g, of this manual.] 
7. Dissemination of information 
Information submitted by informants, potential informants, confidential 
sources, or sources of information should be reported to the Bureau and 
interested offices and other ~.gencies whenever necessary by the appro­
priate means of communication under captions showing the subject matter 
of the information. 
s: Correspondence 
Correspondence submitted in security informant and potential security 
informant matters should be strictly limited to the administrative 
handling of the informant and should not contain information more prop­
erly furnished to the Bureau under a substantive case caption. 
9, Maintenance of files 
a, All ·pending files on security informants shall be maintained under 
lock and key under the personal supervision of the SAC, ASAC, or field 
supervisor as the in:!:'ormant indices are maintained and described ·\'n 
subsection JC. 
b, Subfiles containing w~itten statements may be maintained in the open 
files se.ction, provided there is no disclosure of the informant's 
identity on the s~atements, 
c, All informant files should be maintained in such a manner as to insure 
tlHi,t all information furnished by a particular informant vrill be 
immediately available upon the request of the Bureau. 
d. In addition, these files should be maintained in such a fashion that 
the identities of the cases in which an informant has furnished 
competent e-vidence can· be furnished immediately to the Bureau by 
simply referring to the file of the informant and without the necessity 
of conducting extensive research. 
10, Us!: of informant by Department •- filing correspondence re 
?rom time to time, the Department expresses an interest in using a partic­
ular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witness, 
As a result, there will be correspondence showing this situation between 
the Bureau and the field, Place copies of all such correspondence in 
the inforrr:'3.nt I s file. Occasionally such correspondence may be volu­
minous and apply to more than one jnformant. In -those cases, summarize 
the information concerning each particular informant and place the summary 
"in the appropriate i~formant•s file, 
11. Form FD-238 
Form FD-238 (printed on pink paper) has been approved for use in security 
informant ana potential security informRnt files. It is to be used in 
-the nature of a -tabl.e .of content:; or as an inuex to show where in the 
file pa.rticular data can be found. This form is to be kept as the top 
1.7 
3-13-61 
NW-38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1512 
