13-00000 
]1obert M. McNamara, Jr., Esq. 
July 15, 1998 
Page 10 
around the time of the assassination) are identified on an index as missing or destroyed. 
In the Final Declaration, pleas~ explain, as best as possible, the circumstances for this. 
We previously .requested an·accounting for the files of former Counter-Intelligence 
Chief James Angleton [CIA-IR-04) in view of the fact that no discrete files of Mr. 
Angleton had been identified under the JFK Act. Since Mr. Angleton was .involved in 
the CIA's assistance to the Warren Commission, we request that CIA's statement 
regarding Mr. Angleton;s files (i.e., CIA's response to CIA-IR--04) be attached to the 
Final Declaration.. • 
We also ask that CIA verify that all assassination-related materials from the files of Win 
Scott, former Chief of Station for Mexico City, are in fact in the CIA-HSCA Sequestered 
Collection. 0A should describe what was done to inventory the Scott files to make 
certain that no other assassination-related materials exist in addition to those in the 
Sequestered Collection. 
The Final Declaration should identify any other records relating to Oswald or the 
assassination that CIA knows to have been destroyed or removed from 0A files. 
4. The CIA Should Identify, and Incorporate by Refer~ce, Each of Its Written 
Responses to Review Board Requests for Additional Information 
CIA has been cooperative in providing written responses to formal and informal 
requests submitted by the Review Board regarding CIA records. These responses will 
collectively demonstrate much of the work that CIA has done under the JFK Act. We 
request that.QA attach to its Final Declaration a list of CIA's written responses and 
identify each by subject, date of response, and· the Review Board rE:4Uest number. The 
Final Declaration should state that each response is being incorporated therein by 
reference. • • 
S. CIA Should State 1hat It Is Aware of No Records on Oswald or the 
Assassination of President Kennedy Being Withheld from the Public 
After describing its records search under the JFK Act; identifying the assassination • 
records that it has located, and accounting for records that were destroyed, CIA should. 
include a representation that i~ is aware of no other undisclosed files or records relating 
to Lee Harvey Oswald or the assassination of President Kennedy, including records 
post-dating the 1978 HSCA investigation. We want the CIA to explicitly confirm, for 
example, that it is not aware of any undisclosed 19_80's or 1990's intelligence or records 
