[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
87D 
NW 88321 
·c11> 
•• ION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGAT: ·-• 
II. Mark canceled across face of each card being retained 
and file in the reserve index, section B. 
III. Above instructions do not apply[to]individuals· removed 
from security index based upon activity in Nation of 
Islam. Security index cards in such cases should be 
destroyed. 
(h) Subjects of Chinese extraction 
In any communication recommending cancellation of a security 
index card on a subject of Chinese extraction, such commu­
nication must contain the words "Other - Chinese. 11 This 
regulation relates specifically to ~hose subjects placed 
on security index following a recommendation submitted in 
accordance with instructions contained in section 87D 7b 
( 4 ) ( j ) ab ove . 
Priority apprehension program 
{a) Purpose 
{b) 
Many individuals included in security index because of their 
training, violent tendencies, or promine·nce in subversive 
activity are extremely dangerous and would be more inclined 
to commit or capable of committing overt acts against u. s. 
in time of national emergency than would others in security 
index. Degree of dangerousness of such individuals is so 
pronounced that in interest of security they must be im,.~o­
bilized in least possible time prior to others in security 
index. 
Individuals in security index tabbed priority I and[possibly] 
priority II would be arrested first in event of a limited 
but grave emergency, probably without arrest of other secu­
rity index subjects. 
In an all-out emergency,[secondary consideration for appre­
hension will be given to]all subjects whose n~mes are[in­
cluded in priority III of security index.] 
Each individual case should stand on its own merits and 
decision to consider subjects ~or priority of apprehension 
should be based on subject's subversive activities and 
revolutionary tendenceis. 
Subjects to be tabbed priority 
I. Each security index subject should be considered for 
_priority I tabbing who falls wit~in one or more of fol­
•lowing categories: 
(A) All top functionaries 
{B) All individuals considered to be hard cor~ national 
and state basic revolutionary organization leaders 
and those leaders of other subversive organizations 
and unorganized groups and individuals who have in­
dicated a propensity .for violence and/or have re-
·ceived special training in sabotage, espionage, and/ 
or guerrilla warfare. Examples of activities of 
individuals who should be included in this priority 
are as follows: 
i. Activity as organizers or leaders in the 
organization 
.ii. Special training at Lenin School or Far Eastern 
Institute in Moscow , 
iii. Experience as picket captains, strong-arm men, 
or active participation in violent strikes, riots, 
or demonstrations • 
iv. Violent statements or strong revolutionary 
tendencies as shown by their activities 
62 
~-13-70 
( ! 
i 
I 
I -! i 
l 
