13-00000 
PAGE 11 
20/20 CABC>, August 27, 1993 
Sheriff BOWLES: You have to ask them. 
Mr. POSNER: They clearly went down the wrong path. The National Academy of 
Sciences reviewed their work later, and pointed out all the flaws in it. They 
just made an error on that Dictabelt. _ There is no fourth shot. There• s no shot 
at all, even, to hear._ 
SHERR: Even if people accepted the physical evidence gathered here in Dealey 
Plaz.a, and agreed that it tended to support the Warren Commission's findings, 
that would not end the speculation. Surveys show that most Americans doubt that 
Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone, believing instead that he was either part of or 
himself became a victim of a conspiracy. 
LEE HARVEY OSWALD: I didn't shot anybody, no, sir. 
3rd NEWSCASTER: C? l Oswald has been shot! 
SHERR: What about the Ruby- the Jack Ruby-organized crime connection? Clearly, 
there was a connection there. 
Mr. POSNER: No question. As a matter of fact, I think the Warren Commission 
underplayed Jack Ruby's organiz.ed-crime connections. 
SHERR: Isn't there some evidence, then, that he might have been acting on their 
behalf to wipe out Oswald? 
Mr. POSNER: Right. No. If he had a contract from organized ~rime, why didn't he 
shoot Oswald when h~ saw him for the first time two days earlier? On the day 
Ruby finally killed Oswald, it was only by chance that their paths crossed. He· 
was not acting on behalf ·of organiz.ed crime. He was acting for his own 
motivation, this desire, as. he thought, to be a hero in Dallas, that he would 
erase the stain and the stigma attached to the city that had· been done by the 
President's murder. 
SHERR: You're saying Jack Ruby acted all by himself,.a lone-gunman theory once 
again? 
Mr. POSNER: Without any doubt. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl Posner also explained his views on the many conspiracy 
theories about the assassination. 
ROBERT F. KENNEDY: Did you say, 'That S.O.B., I'll break his back'? 
JIMMY HOFF A: Who? 
Mr. KENNEDY: You. 
Mr. HOFFA: Who's the 'Who'? 
SHERR: The Mafia wanted the President killed, because that would get rid of 
Bobby Kennedy, who was going after organiz.ed crime. 
Mr. POSNER: I would not be surprised if the Kafia, in 1962 or '63, sat at a 
;ervices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
