107N 
. [ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
4. 
5. 
6. 
"" 
SECTION 1 o: ~ECURITY nr·rorrnANTS .AND coNn. /.'TL\!, SOUH.C.l!~~.; 
• • Four-month evaluation of informants not paid on Bureau authority 
If the inform:mt is not being pnid on Bureau authorization, a communi­
ca·l;ion must be transr.1itted to the Bureau every four months af·ter the 
date of design~tion containing the same information set out above in 
subsection 3b except those i terns concerning pc2.)1nen ts. Recommendation 
of SAG regarding continuance of in£ormant should also be set forth UACil. 
In espionage and foreign nationality cases com."llent is necessary regarding 
only those applicable items in subsection 3b. 
Receipts . . 
When payments are made to anyone for information or ass:i stance on seourity 
matters, either on the SAC1 s authority or on prior Bureau approval, •receipts 
must be obtained in ~.'very instance in which it is possible to do so. [If a 
receipt cannot be obtained for a particular payment,. c;ompleto circumstances 
should be set forth on the blue slip at the time reimbursement is claimed.) 
a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes nec:}ssary to i·ntroducc the re-ceipts in e-vidence 
during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate tQ other 
documents or files. 
b. Receipts should clearly show: 
l
l.} Date on which payment was made 
2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis 
3} Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for services 
or expenses where these items are pertinent 
(4) Name of Agent ma.king payment 
.• (5} Signatu~e of person receiving the money 
c. [Receipts are not to be witnessed by another Agent. 
d. If necessary to make corrections on the receipts,· such corrections 
mus·!; be initialed by the informant and not by the .Agent. 1 
[ e.] When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of C;_Xpenses to the 
Bureau, they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, leaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contac·I; with the .Acco fastener punch. The staples should be 
placed in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on th~ 
• receipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Ca~~ must 
be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clear· shovr 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary . : erial 
contained in Ilufiles. 
Income tax returns 
a. .Informants who receive compensation for their services to the Bureau 
should be advised that such compensa·l;ion must be reported as income 
when filing an income tax return. . 
b. Since all informants a.re considered independent contracto·rs, the income 
they receive from the Bureau is self-employment income but, since the 
Bureau does not consider their acti'Vi ty as ·l;he carrying on of a trade 
or business, they may consider dispensing with the filing of a schedule 
C as part of form 1040 if they so desire. 
c. The informant 1 s own personal situa·tion, however, should be taken into 
consideration as he may receive inoome from other sources as an inde­
pendent contractor which would require the deduction of self-employ­
ment tax, regardless of any Bureau income he may receive. 
d, In considering the filing of a tax on self-employment income, such 
a return is based upop net earnings from self-empl-:,ymen t of $400 
or more. If an informant receives less tha~ $400 from the Bureau 
and has no other self-employment income, this money in any event· 
is not subject to the self-employment tax. If the informant re­
ceives $4800 or more from outside employment subject to Social 
Security tax, again the self-employment ·l;a.x requirements do not 
apply. 
e.· Bureau income should be set forth under item 10 on page one of the . 
Federal income tax return, form ·1040, as "Other Income 11 and explained 
under schedule H(3) on page three of the return as income received 
from other sources for personal services rendered through a private 
enterprise or similar general term applicable to informantts position 
and station in life. 
20 
10-13-61 
NW 38121 Docld:32989529 Page 1427 
( 
I 
I 
I l 
-l ! 
j 
L 1 
i 
I 
i 
i ! 
; 
l 
I 
l 
I i 
I l 
I ! 
I ! i I 
I 
I 
I i 
I 
i l 
I ! 
l I 
