• 
NW 
Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan 
RE: LUNCHEON ENGAGEMENT OF THE DIRECTOR 
WITH THE ATTORNEY GE~~ERAL AND 
MR. SARGENT SHRIVER, DIRECTOR OF THE 
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY 
D~ING WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 18, 1967 
•., 
/ 
(continue to threaten the police until policemen are trained 
properly in how to deal with Negroes. Captain Al Prezio of the 
Troy, New York, Police Department, advised on 8/25/67 that 
Freeman Robinson, an employee of an antipoverty organization 
funded by OEO, uses the office of the antipoverty organization 
as a headquarters to conduct militant civil rights work and to 
recruit teen-agers to incite riots and arouse a Negro community 
on any issue that would create racial unrest. 
Willie Wright, a duly-elected board member of the 
United Community Corporation, Newark, New.Jersey, is alleged 
·to.have made statements concerning Negro rioting such as "To 
hell with President Johnson when he says something ab.out not 
tolerating riots. We've tolerated these conditions for more 
than 400 years." He is also quoted as having said: "It is my 
firm conviction that in order to overcome the white man's complete 
human and legal jurisdiction over my black brothers and sisters, 
we are going to defend ourselves against all kinds of aggressions 
that are being perpetrated against usl by the white man. I most 
emphatically want to make sure the majority of my black brothers 
and sisters have a piece of firepower in their home possessions 
to protect themselves against the most brutal atrocities to be 
seen anywhere committed by the New Jersey National Guard, the 
Newark and State Police in the recent rebellion in the City of 
Newark." The OEO has requested Wright's suspension pending its 
investigation of statements attributed toWright. 
"The Washington Post" of 9 /13/ 67 "contained an article 
by Columnist Roscoe Drummond captioned "Mayors Say OEO Programs 
Helped Suppress City Riots" in which he refers to a nationwide 
survey con~ucted by OEO in 64 cities, ·half of which had riots 
this summ~r. In citing OEO figures he pointed out that of 30,000 
Community Action employees only 16 were arrested during the course 
of the riots and none were convicted. Poverty programs had 244 
buildings in the hearts of the riot areas with none being burned 
or destroyed. 
- 5 -
3 
Page 527 
l 
l l I 
I. 
i I 
t 
I I 
I 
