'' 
) 
) 
) 
'~ /'.~ 
f 
SECTION 107. [INT&r ]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CO~ENTIAL SOURCES; 107Q-R 
[AND ~REIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSEffl 
[ 
CORRECTIVE ACTION ON FALSE INFORMATION 
1. When it is determined that informant or ex-informant furnished false 
information while informant, promptly advise Bureau of complete facts. 
2. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing 
informant in future, such as: "informant of known unreli.abilityn or 
"informant who has furnished both reliable and unreliable in:forma.tion in 
the past. 11 
3. Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with review of 
all data furnished by individual and label information from him accordingly. 
4. All communications containing information from informant which have been 
disseminated to Bureau, other Bureau offices, and to outside agencies 
must be corrected. 
5. Identify cases individually by title and character, together with dates 
of communications containing information. 
6. If information was used -in reports, corrective letters should be crystal 
clear and refer to specific report, page number, and change to be ma.de. 
7. Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by Bureau in 
accordance with part II, section 4, of Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
Corrective action should be called to attention of other Bureau offices, 
outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
a. Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further dissemina­
tion of information to follow instructions set forth above. 
9. Set up control file regarding this corrective action, and upon completion 
of same submit to Bureau final letter under_ informant's caption identifying 
each case by title, character, Bureau file, where known, and date of com­
munication. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files 
to see that necessary corrective action has been taken. 
10. If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
informant should also be requested to submit summary letters showing what 
corrections have been made. • 
11. All information from informant must be correctly labeled and great care 
must be taken to see that this is done. 
12. Occasionally, ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions raises 
a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to time he was informant. It 
is not necessary to go back and change evaluation of information attributed 
to that individual in absence of definite indication that informant furnished 
unreliable information while he was informant. 
13. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability and 
known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, section 5, 
Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
R. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. 
2. 
Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
Assignment of symbols 
a. A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is taken 
to ~evelop an individual as a confidential source. 
b. Advise Bureau by secure teletype (Ni tel) ,giving name, address, business 
affiliation, symbol number, reason for assigning symbol number, and 
brief statement concerning type of information furnished. 
c. Abbreviation "CS" may be used in intra-Bureau communications for 
confidential source; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS.11 . 
d. When permanent symbol has been assigned to confidential source, 
abbreviation "CS" is to appear before symbol number; e.g., CS NY 000-S. 
e. Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from series 
of numbers used for security, extremist, and criminal informants. 
21 
10-15-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1182 _l"_ -
