.... 
M~~orandum to Madams 
• Re: Senate Select Committee, etc. 
Schwarz offered as an alternative that the agencies would be 
advised of the identity of persons to be interviewed and that prior to 
the interview the agency would contact the witness to explain the authority, 
the security arrangements made by the Committee for the protection of 
information, to authorize the witness to answer questions where the 
'Witness was bound by a secrecy agreement, and to caution the witness 
concerning matters of a sensitive nature which should be deferred for 
discussion with members of the Committee or with the Chairman of the 
Committee. 
I pointed out to Schwarz that unless the FBI was given notice 
as to the specific subject matter of the interview to be conducted, we wpuld 
find it most difficult to intelligently assess the sensitivity of the information 
that might be furnished by the witness. The CIA representatives expressed 
great alarm that an interview ~could disclose information without some 
prior assessment of the potential damage to intelligence collection techniques 
and sources. 
As to these points, Schwarz stated that he would discuss with the 
members of the Committee a revision of their :ip.itial proposal that 
would include notice to the agency of the identity of a person to be interviewed 
plus a genetic description of the subject matter of the interview followed by 
a contact by the agency with the prospective witness to assess the sensitivity 
of the information and to advise the witness of areas of inquiry that must be 
def erred for special handling by designated members of the Committee or 
of the Committee staff. Following that contact the Committee representative 
would proceed to conduct the interview with the understanding that the agency 
representative would be near-by and immediately available for consultation 
should the witness have concern as to the degree of sensitivity of 
information he was being asked to furnish. At the conclusion of the 
interview, the Committee would make available to the agency a summary 
of the notes taken during the interview but a transcription of the interview would 
not be made available either to the agency or to the witness interviewed. 
Schwarz stipulated that there may be occasions when the Committee 
would reserve its right to interview an individual, whether a current employee 
or a former employee, in secret in order to protect the interview or to insure 
the completeness and accuracy of his information. I asked Burt Wides 
whether they had any basis for that concern and he indicated that they" 
did have such a basis, but declined to specify the details. 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
- NW 38296 Docld:32989532 Page 89 
