-,----------------------------. .. -.,--- ----------------
PA.RT II 6E - G 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
{ ·r, 3, Auxilia;ry offices are to. advise the of'fice of origin by letter of the 
( 
( 
results obtained through a circular letter. Office of origin should 
su!lli~arize the results in its next report. 
4, One c~py of the circular letter is to be filed, A list of addresaes i~ to 
be attached. Upon the receipt of a· reply, the addressee I s name is to be 
checked to indicate this fact. Replies which are entirely negativ-e 
should not be filed unless there is reason for doing so, Only negative 
replies are to_be destroyed after handling in accordance with item 3 
above, Sub-JI. files may be used when the number of replies to be filed 
is large. 
5, Circular letters and other information to be distributed or released to 
,the public must be so worded as to be unobjectionable to any race, cr,eed, 
'or religion. 
6 .. Trade publications may, with advance Bureau approval, be used to publicize. 
information concerning fugitives known to be active in particular trades, 
businesses, or professions. The field office where the publication is 
located should check its indices concerning the publication, as weil as 
the person or persons who will have to be contacted, before seeking Bureau 
approval, and sufficient identifying data should be furnished so that an 
appropriate Bureau ~ndices check may be made. 
F, R.ADIO BROADCASTS 
Radio broadcasts without advance Bureau approval may be made in hot-pursuit 
fugitive cases. Gare must be exercised in broadcasting a license number 
believed used by fugitive as it may be disposed of to an innocent third per­
son. 
G. FIELD OFFICE LISTS 
1. Law enforcement officials 
Page 
a. On March 1 of each year all field offices shall forward to the Bureau 
in duplicate, and with a space left between the officials of each 
department, a list of such law enforcement officials and agencies 
whose cooperation might be helpful.· Indicate by an-asterisk any 
change which was not previously called to the Bureau's a ttenti,on. 
(1) Chiefs of police 
{ 2) Sheriffs 
(3) State police or highway patrol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
4) U. s. Marshals and deputies 
5l Ranking Federal law enforcement officers 
6 Wardens of penal institutions 
7 District attorneys or county prosecuto~s 
8 Railway police (if desirable) 
9 Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins 
(10) Any other officials who receive identification orders 
b. Changes in the list are to be reported in duplicate to the Bureau 
as they occur. 
c. Letters advising the Bureau of changes are to be set up as indicated: 
No. City 'Deleted .A.dded Remarks 
4 Center City, Iowa 
7 jonesville, Iowa 
3 Bro"tmsville, Iowa 
john M. »oe, Sheriff 
Wayne' County 
Richard Brown 
Chief of Police 
George Smith 
Constable 
3a 
9-27-63 
R. Roe, Sheriff 
Wayne County 
George Smythe 
Deceased 
successor 
not named 
To show 
correct 
spelling 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 328 
