( 
• 
:..J 
Colonel Roth. That ,was my impression at the time. 
Q. You understand from your work in the Defense Department 
that the highest level of government usually indicated the 
~resident of .the United States? 
Colonel Roth. I would assume that. 
The CIA produced copies of several messages which identify 
Generals Bennett and Philpott as either the sender or recipiento Among 
these documents is a message relating to Track II which bears Philpott's 
purported signature. (Undated message, ca. 14 October 1970) General 
Philpott admitted that the signature appears to be his but doubted that 
it was a·nd he could not recall signing it, or having seen it. ();hi lpo t t, ,, 
p. ) CIA also produced messages of October 14 (Headquarters 762) 
and October 21 (Headquarters 934) conveying instructions from General 
" Bennett to the b_rm~]Attache. General Bennett testified he did not 
authorize these messages: 
It is. beyond the responsibilities which I had in the military 
assistance area. It goes beyond the responsibility which I 
had in terms that I would have. to get the authority or the 
approval of the Secretary through the Chairman for covert 
action of this magnitude. This message would. not have been 
signed by me. (Bennett testimony', p. 21) 
According to Karamessines, only the White House had the authority to 
issue the directives contained in those messages (Kararnessines testi-
mony, p. 84) 
The Department of Defense was unable to provide any documents bear­
inJ on the issue of t.imer~• s Track II instructions or responses. A 
DOD file search under the direction of General Daniel O. Graham, the 
present Director of DIA, produced no copies of communication documents 
for the September-October 1970 period. (Graham, p. 6) However, Roth 
testified that detailed memoranda for the record which he prepared on 
, '1', I • 
his activities are missingifrom the files. ) 
. - "',..,. .....,. _ _ .'¥it .. 
- • ,. ·r • .. 
""·"' .-i ,_.,, 
-t~:,_ 
~:..-· 
-
, 
;,.:: 
If~~---· 
-
-· 
-
