• • 
September 3, 1975 
Atlanta, Georgia 
On September 2, 1975, Mr. Paul G. Wallach, Counsel 
to the Select Corrnnittee to Study Governmental Operations with 
Respect to Intelligence Activities of the United States Senate 
arrived at my office located at 6165 Barfield Road, Atlanta, 
Georgia 30302, at approximately 10:10 a.m. His interview with 
me corrnnenced at approximately 10:15 a.m. and lasted until 
approximately 10:50 a.m. This interview was not conducted 
under oath. Mr. Wallach did not advise me of my rights. I 
drove Mr. Wallach to Perimeter Mall where he caught the 11:00 a.m. 
bus to the Airport. 
During the interview Mr. Wallach asked how long 
I had served in the Federal B~reau of Investigation and what 
areas I worked in during my FBi career. He was told that my 
FBI career started on March 19, 1951, and ended with my 
retirement on January 27, 1973·. During this time I was 
assigned to criminal work for two years, worked in the Soviet 
Intelligence field for approximately 17 years, and again handled 
criminal work for the last three years of my Bureau career. 
Wallach wanted to know if I worked with James Kehoe. 
I told him that for the most part Kehoe and I were on different 
squads, although we both worked in the Soviet Intelligence 
field. We did work on the same squad during the first years 
of our assignment to this type of work. 
Wa±lach wanted to know if I was aware of the operatiqn 
involving the mail at Kennedy Airport and at other post offices 
in the New York area. I told him that officially I was not aware 
of these operations but that in fact I knew of the operations. 
Wallach wanted to know if I had ever been assigned to work in 
a post office and my answer was "no". 
Wallach then wanted to know if I was acquainted 
with Sam Jaffee. After my affirmative answer he wanted to 
know how I met him, why I interviewed him, whether I had to 
have permission to interview him, what kind of information 
he furnished, whether I had ever asked him to do anything, 
and whether Jaffee was an informant. He also wanted to know 
when I first met Jaffee, how frequently I saw him, over what 
period of time I was seeing him, and when I last saw him. 
NW 38316 Docld:32989653 Page 166 
