l 
1 i 
J 
I 
l I 
.j 
i . , 
50955 
SECRET 
-6-
(11) Invoke Rio Treaty on basis of Castro 0 s continued 
subversive activities. 
Considerations: 
If we desire to institute more vigorous collective sanctions vs. 
the Castro regime for its subversive activities, it would be neces­
sary to invoke • .. :the Rio Treaty since the present functions given the 
COAS and Special Consultative Committee on Security (SCCS) under 
Resolution II of Punta del Este provide authority only for surveil­
lance and recommendations to governments for control measures . 
The primary threat of Castro is his subversive activities in 
the hemisphere. Should the level of Castro-directed subversive 
activities in the Hemisphere increase appreciably, this would become 
a more feasible and desirable course. This becomes an increasing 
possibility in view of Castro 0 s recent speech inciting insurrection 
in Latin America. 
The basis of any such action should consist of the production 
of l'?-ard evidence of.the direct involvement of the Cuban regime in 
subversive activities in the hemisphere. There is, however, in~ 
sufficient hard evidence available at this time to obtain COAS 
action. (A U.S. project to collate all available evidence is under 
way.) 
(12) Assign the functions and operations of the Advisory 
Defense Committee (ADC) to the Inter-American Defense Board (IADB~. 
This could be done: 
(a) by amending the OAS Charter to assign ADC functions to 
the IADB; 
(b) by the COAS seeking the advice of the IADB; or 
(c) having the OAS member governments designate their 
representatives on the IADB to serve also on the ADC. 
Considerations: 
As to (a), the proposed amendment would have to be referred 
to the Quito Conference (whose date has not been setJ. Moreover, 
amendment of the Charter is a difficult and tortuous process and 
requires ratification by 2/J of the member governments. 
As to (b), this is a feasible course of action which the 
C07.S/0C could take without specific authority. It might be diffi­
cult, however, depending on the circumstances, to persuade·the 
C.ouncil of the desirability Of such action. 
As 
SECRET 
Docld:32276061 P~ge 109. 
