[ 
[ 
( 
( 
87D •"'.""·;ECTION 07. SECUHI'i.'Y INVESTIGi DNS 
_, . . 
(i) sleets misninti or out of country may be recommended for 
the :ccurity index provided instructions set forth in 87D 
6b (3) and (4) are followed. Forms FD-122 submitted on 
su.bjectn should include data required in 87D 7b l6) (u) 
IV below. 
{ j) 'When form FD-122 is submitted recommendintJ a s ecu:ci ty index 
card be prepared on a subject who is of Chinese extrB,ction, 
the words "Other - Chinese" must be included in the space 
on the form calling for a statement as tb the Dubject's 
race. When :form FD-122 is submitted recommending that a 
security index card be prepared on a person who is not of 
Chinese extraction but who has shown defini-1:,e sympathies 
with com_mu.nist China, the form should include under 
11Nisoellaneous" a statement to the effect 11sympathctic to 
Comrnunist China. 11 
(k) Upon receipt of form li'D-122 a·I; Bureau, the case of the sub­
ject will be reviewed and if recommendation of field: i::: 
concurred in, security index cards .will be preparedo Dupli­
cate copy of form will be returned to office of o·rigin stamped 
"Security Index card approved ahd piepared, three copies 
attached$ Place description and photograph on reverse side 
of Geographical card. Cards should be filed in your 
Securitycr~dex. 11 The three cards shall be filed in security 
index as outlined below. The returned copy of FD-122 shall 
be _placed in subject 1 s main investigative case fiieo 
Offices with a geographical breakdown by resj,denoe and 
employment will receive an- extra. card •. 
( l) When security index cards ar.e received from Bureau, da.·ta 
thereon must be checked for ac.c,1r2.cy. Cards wilJ. be com­
plete except for description and photograp~. D~scriptions 
and photographs are maintained on separate card~ of 
similar size to secu.1·ity· index cards which are stapled 
to back of two of the. cards. One card will then be filed 
in the geographical section of off.ice security iildex 
(except special seotio).l cards and unavailable sect.ion ctu.·ds 
see 87D 7b (6) {b) III and IV below), and one card shall • 
be filed in the duplicate security index maintained away 
from headquarters city. The other card i$ filed in. 
alphabetical section of security index. No information 
shall be permanently added, deleted,. or changed on face 
of sec'liri ty index card with out complying wi·l;h ins true ti" ons 
set _forth below under 87D 7b ( 8}. . • 
·(5) Content and app·earance of security index card 
•. • .;.,(a) . Data to appear on fa9e of oa,t"d 
' When complete, face of security index card should conta1n 
the following information. If any of items enumerated in 
I through XIV are missing at time the security index ca.rd 
is made, the case should be continued as pending and investi­
·gation conducted to obtain the necessary information 0 Set 
·,forth under each item below are possible categories in which 
·_subject may be olassifi"ed, together with code -letters which 
should be placed in appropriate space on form FD-122 wh.::n 
_ sending form to Bureau re.--.•tm1.ending security index card be 
.prepared. Code letters s:. nl·d subsequently appear on s ccuri ty: 
• :index cards recei~ed from Bureau. 
Io Name and aliases 
The full and correct nam,.; and aliases of the su.bj.ect 
must be contained on the Jecurity index card. When 
the true name of a subject or any aliases are changed, 
added, deleted, or. are found to be in-correct, form 
FD-122 must be submitted[showing]the correct d3.ta. 
to be placed on the security index card . 
. ;,. 
48 
12.:..13-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page Gll 
'. 
