[ 
[ 
[ 
l07C-D 
4. 
5. 
6-. 
7. 
8. 
''\ 
SECTIOll 10; .SECURITY I!IFORMANTS AND CO>IFI.TIAL SOURCES. 
Inq~iries of discreet nature concerning individual's personal history 
(dats and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, health, reliability, 
stability, integrity, genero>.l reputation, present and past employmentc., 
and business connections. Investigation must definitely establish that 
ind.i vidm,.l can be used without danger of future embarrassment due 
to inst~bility or unreliability. Securing background information from 
individn£?.l is not sufficient; his background must be establishetl by 
investigation, including discreet inquiries among persons personally 
acquainted with him. 
Check of local credit and arrest records. [Limit credit check of 
individual to identifying information only {name, address, former 
address, employment, former employment.)] Submit FD-165 to Identification 
Division to obtain any re cord he may have and to place stop a.ga·inst 
fingerprints if on file. 
Review· armed services record if applicable. 
Check draft status or status in armed forces reserve. 
Check domestic status and, if any marital difficulties, obtain details. 
Persons bein~ considered for use in espionage and foreign nationality 
cases ma'y pr;sent· ·special problems which linii t scope of investigation. 
{See instructions re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, 
volume IV, of this manual.) However, ,where practical, cover above items. 
Leads must be handled by auxiliary offices within 30 days. Investigation 
must be completed prior ·l;o any request to guide, direct, or designate in­
dividual as potential security informant. 
D. APPROVAL, INDOCTRINATION, AND DEVELOP11ENT OF POTENTIAL INFORHA.NTS 
1. When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same 
.numerical sequence set out in subsection C, and request authority to des­
ignate individual as Bureau-approved potential security informant and to 
proceed with d-evelopment. Submit by secure teletype (usually Nitel). 
( 
Be brief and concise. Do not submit on UACB basis. Include physical 
description. 
a. If the individual is a student, include separate paragraph clearly ( 
setting forth the number of extremist and/or security informants, 
the number of potential extremist and/or potential security in-
formants, and the number of panel sources currently being operated at 
the particular college or university to which the request pertains. 
2. After designation as Bureau-approved potential security informant, fol~ 
lowing matters should be made clear to him: 
i. His assistance is strictly voluntary and ~e is to understand there is 
no coercion or intimidation involved. 
b. He is not and cannot consider himself employee or 11 undercover Agent" 
of FBI. Seriousness of violating impersonation statutes must be 
impressed upon him. • 
c. His cooperation must be strictly confidential at all times and if 
he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so 
advise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informant 
that his relationship must remain on confidential basis and if he 
violates confidence he will be of no value and by so doing Bureau's 
investigative activity may be jeopardized. If he has special 
problem which would require revealing his assistance to his wife or 
other pertinent individual, this should be ascertained and appropriate 
recommendation made to Bureau. 
d. If potential informant is connected in any manner with labor union, 
inform him that Bureau is not interested in employer-employee 'rela.tion­
ships as such and is only concerned with obtaining information on 
infiltration of unions by subversive elements. 
NW 38121 Docld:32989529 Page 1127 
4 10-13-71 
