-17-
Helms stated that those words reflected the "kind of atmosphere" on which he 
relied for his perception that assassination was implicitly authorized. (Helms, 
7/17, p. 60~61.) McManus, who wrote the memorandum, agreed that Robert Kennedy 
"was very vehement in his speech" and "really wanted action" but McManus disagreed 
with Helms perception, stating that !lit never occurred to me" that the words 
quoted above from Robert Kennedy included pennission to assassinate Castro. (McManus, 
p. 9.) Nor did the spirit of the meeting as a whole give McManus any idea that 
assassination was either contemplated or authorized. (Tr., p. 9-10.)* 
S. General Lansdale's Mongoose Planning Tasks 
On January 18, 1962, Lansdale assigned 32 planning tasks to the agencies parti­
cipating in Mongoose. (Lansdale Ex. 3, Prograni..Review of the Cuba Project.) In a 
memorandum to the working group members, Lansdale emphasized that "it is our job to put 
the American genius to work on this project, quickly and effectively. This demands a 
change from the business as usual and a hard facing of the fact that we are in a com-
(). bat situation--where we have been given full command." (Lansdale memorandum, 1/20/62, 
p. 1.) 
The 32 tasks comprised a variety of activities, ranging from intelligence collec­
tion to planning for "use of U.S. military force to support the Cuban popular 
_:-_/ With respect to the question of priorities and emphasis in the Kennedy 
Administration, there was a Rreat deal of proof showing that Cuba 
indeed had a high priority and the very existentc of a hi~h level 
p;roup like the Special Group Auf911ented further demonstrates its 
importance. MacHamara, for example, stated that. "we were hysterical 
about Castro at the time of the Bay of Pi1:_;s and thereafter." (In 
the same context, MacNamara stated "I d(.:UJ't believe•we contemplated 
✓ss~.) (MacNamara, p. 93). Similarly, General Lansdale Tn-
- ( o. rmed the members of his inter-ar,ency committee that Mon13oose "demands 
C . change from business-as-usual and a hard facinr, of the fact that 
-( you I re in a combat situation where we have been e;i ven full command." 
\ · (lk-taJ · , Ex. , Memorandum, January 20, 1962, from Lansdale). 
~<l V'-"r On the other hand, Sorensen testified that ~\~ere were lots of top 
~b \.)' priorities, and it was the job of some of Lu::!./ to continually tell 
various agencies their particular subject was the top priority" and 
althoue,h Cuba was "important" it was "fairly wcl·l down'"on the list of 
the President's agenda." (Sorensen, p. 12). For example, when told 
that his first letter to Khruschev in the secret correspondence that 
lasted two or three years would be "the single most importnnt docu­
ment you will write during your Presidency," President Kenndy said, 
"Yes, we get these every day over here. 
11 
• (Sorensen, p. 12 ) .. 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page· 153 
