13-00000 
OECl-::1!:T 
SUBJECT: The JFK Declassification Experience 
"Dailies." Box 64 of the "Segregated Collection" consisted 
of 72 reels of microfilm of complete files from which the 
material reviewed by the HSCA staffers was drawn: CIA staff 
personnel and security files; a duplicate Oswald 201 file; 
26 reels of 201 files on Cubans, Russians, and Americans 
linked with Oswald, the JFK assassination, and the several 
investigations; DO project history files, and so on. 
6. (AIUO) Included were printed text, almost illegible 
Thermofax, photographs, computer listings, typed 3X5 cards, 
buckslips, routing sheets, handwritten scraps - every 
imaginable form of documentation, with a tremendous amount 
of duplication, in one instance, 54 copies of a Mexico City 
cable. Every one of these pieces of paper had to be handled 
according to NARA instructions, as a unique document for 
inclusion in the NARA collection for public access and with 
an Identification Aid for research assistance and retrieval. 
Among other things, the collection reflected little attention 
to procedures propounded by NARA itself for Records 
Management, including destruction of duplicate copies. 
7. (AIUO) The pressure to meet an initial Congress­
ionally-mandated release date of 22 August, 1993 with the 
NARA-required Research Identification Forms, resulted in a 
crash effort at indexing done, mainly, by individuals on 
loan fr6m the directorates on an overtime basis and generally 
unfamiliar with the collection and the subject matter. Thus, 
a major factor in inconsistent redacting of multiple copies 
of the same document· in different boxes was a function of the 
quality of the indexing and the effort of the reviewers_to 
cope,with constantly ~hanging guidelines. Inadvertent 
release was inevitable. 
THE REVIEW PROCESS 
8. (AIUO) The majority of the reviewers were 
independent contractors with many years of experience, 
in some cases senior management experience in at least two 
directorates. Two HRG reviewers had been Information Review 
Officers themselves as supergrades, one in the DO, the other 
in the DA~ After the HRG review with suggestions for release 
in full or with redactions, the documents went to a DO review 
team. The DO agreement or disagreement was reflected on each 
document, and the package was returned for a senior-level HRP 
review prior to forwarding to the ARRB. 
3 
