I' 
- <' ·:' 
L!emorandum to .!i:::r. Belmont 
Re: IlJTELLICJJ7VCE COVb1.9,AG~J!.,
7 
OF?;. 
J/RIE'NDLY· FORE'IGII COUJI'TRIE.3·. •· . 
65-63113 
,, . 
the event we received informatiOn • indicating a foreign intelligence . 
representative was acting outside the scope of h,is approved activities.· .. :· 
.. Ile asked th,at in.format ion of this latter nature be called to our. • ,_,. 
attention if received by one of the recipient agencies•\to assist us 
in eliminating unnecessary in,quiries and concentrating :_·on matters 
deserving the most attention. l-7e re.quested all si.x age_ncies to furnish 
us the identities of any foreign intelligence represent!/atives then in 
the U. s. and to ·provide us on a continuing basis data ivith r·espect to 
future arrival3 of such representat ivis-, both in instances where. working 
arrangements ev..,i i sted and otherwise. (65-63113-1 through 4) . 
Since our letters of 11-18-54, all si:x, of the recipient agencies 
have furnish.ed data of the nature requested • ... 4 current analysis of these 
data has shown that in.format ion provided by llat ional .Security Agency, 
while quite complete, has been of little operational value. This:;_is 
occasioned by the fact that lvational Security Agency is not an op·erational 
agency and foreign government representatives entering the U. ·S. to. 
consult with jtfational Security .Agency personnel would nonnally be 
e:x,pected to be connected with service agencies of their oun governments; 
however, the data. furnished by l.fational Security .Agency are of value. 
The rtames of the~· individuals furnished are inde:xed in. our files and, if 
tlie· coverage discussed in categories two and three below produces 
in.formation indicating that any of these foreign int el 1 igence 
representatives ·become operat ionq,l :contrary to t_he purpose for which 
they arrived in this country, we are in a ·position to identify them 
through indices.checks and establish immediately the identity of the 
U. S'. -sponsoring agency. Sine e Jvove;iiber, 1954, we have 1 earned of no . 
instances through this procedure wherein foreign representatives 
admittecl to this country under lJational Security Agency sponsorship 
have become operational or in any other manner created a security threat 
o.f investigative interest to the Bureau. 
In many instances the information furnished by the five 
·.agencies other than IJational Security Agency has. related to ,foreign 
intelligence personnel on an operational level and frequently is .. 
submitted under the name of the iiid i vi dual concerned. This i_s_ ·reviewed 
by the responsible supervisor, - who checks f i 1 es and takes any required 
act ion;. such as, instituting investigation, referral to .tre.ld for 
