( 
( 
( 
R. 
d. 
e •. 
SECTI01f 107 'ECURITY DTFORM./..!TTS AlID C. OliFII _1 ;t'IAL SOURCES 
• 
l07G - I 
All such material should be transmitted in·the same manner as 
statements furnished by informant. 
Receipt of such material should be recorded on form FD-306 or on a 
channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items set forth 
on form FD-306. See section 107M for filing instructions. 
PASSIUG INIORMATI01f IN DOUBLE AGENT OPERA'.i.'IONS 
1. Carefully handle and create basis for acquisition 
a. In dottble a~ent operations information requested by the principal:::· 
is frequently passed either to build up a double agent's stature 
or as evidence of espionage activity. 
b. Each case must be carefully evaluated to make certain that a net 
gain accrues to the u. s. 
o. The information which is paesed should be carefully handled.and 
appropriate explanations created for its acquisition by the double 
agent to avoid his compromise. 
2. Locating information to pass 
Wherever possible the field offioe handling the double agent should 
locate appropriate information to be passed; however, the Bureau can 
assist in fulfilling reques·l;s for information in possession of 
Government agencies, 
3. Obtaining Bureau authority 
Bur.eau authority must be obtained t·o pass any information in a double 
agent operation except: 
a. Newspaper articles 
b. ttagazine articles 
o. Pamphlets, brochures, etc., prepared by a private company or corporation 
for distribution or sale to the public. (This does not include highly 
technical pamphlets, even if unclassified, which arc prepared for 
limited use by engineering staffs and not intended for release to tho 
public.) 
4 .. Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be retained by the office of origin of any documents 
or mc>.terial related to the natior..al dcdense which is passed in double 
agent operations. 
b. Such material should be appropric'.tely ic1entified by ·l;he do1.tble agent. 
o. Bureau Agents should not place identifying data on suoh material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in oonneotion with the passage 
of &uch material. 
d. Similar action should be taken with regal'd to any material which is 
passed which is considered evidentiary al·l;hough not clearly related 
to the national defense, • 
e. It is no·I; necessary to retain copies of buildup material· obviously 
not evidentiary in nature where 'i;here is assurance that copies oan 
be obtained at a later date from the Government agency or private 
concern having oustody. 
I. SYMBOLS 
1. Assigning numbers , 
a. All informants should be c1esignated by a permanent symbol number of 
which the Bureau must be advised. Once a symbol nnrnbcr. is assigned, 
( it must not be oubsequcntly reass1gned[to any other security, racial, 
( or criminal informant or source or confidential tecHnique.l. • 
• b. Potential security informants and confidential sources whose identity 
must be protected may be assigned permanent symbol numbers if th·ey are 
producing sufficient information to warr3nt the use of su~h designations. 
o. Individuals to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be advised 
of such symbols. 
d. An additional cover name should be used by informant in signing his 
stitements and in communications between the informant and the field 
office. • 
e. Bureau should be advised of this cover name in addition to the per­
manent symbol. 
88321 Docld:32989529 1401 • 
13 
4-13-64 
