[ 
[ 
. [ 
[ 
87D SECURITY IHVESTIG.A.'fiv.i. 
facili tfes list, includini; in ail cases the age·ncy having 
security responsibility. Copies of reports for the Marine 
Corps should be dissemi~ated locally to ONie 
Dissemination to the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), Defense 
Atomic Support Agency {DAS.A) (formerly Armed Forces Special 
Weapons Projec·t), ·the Research and Development Board (RDB), 
and the Maritime A(lmin:i.stra.·tion (11.A.) will be made at the 
Bureau, and not in the field. • 
Status o:f cases 
After all ac~ive investigation conducted, place in a[closed] 
statuse Forty-five days before report due, make case pending 
active and check with armed services representative at the 
.key facility, or with other reliable sources, to determine 
·whether.subject has access to classified or restricted 
material. 
figure and top functionary program 
General 
Purpose ·of key figure and top funqtiona.ry program is to selec:t 
for. special attention thos·e individuals in a subversive move­
ment who are of outstanding importance to the effectiveness 
of the movemento 
Key figure and top functionary program is described below as 
.. •.. pertaining t'o the Co!amunist Party, US.Ao However, it also 
applies to important individuals active in or on behalf of 
other basic revolutionary groups. • 
( 2} ,. Ke7 figures 
. (a) Definition . 
A key figure.is an individual, either a member or non­
member of the Conununist Party or other basic revo1'. 0 tionary 
organization, who, by reason of his official position in 
the organizatlon or his connections with the communist 
-movement and his activities on its behalf, is consideved 
of sufficient importance and poten'tial dangerousness 
from an internal secud, ty stand.point to require immediate 
apprehensio:1 or detention in the event of an einergency 0 
Individuals cominf; with.in the following cateJories shall 
be.considered within th_e definition of a key figure: 
I 0 National, district, ~nd state officers and the principal 
. officers of the local clubs of the Communist Party 
IIo The principal orgo.nizers of the Communist Party 
III 0 Those comr.·mnis ts who are executive offic~rs or out­
standing figures in established communist front or 
controlled organizations, .for-eign language groups, and 
Negro orga.niz2.tions infiltrated by communists 
IV~ Individuals extensively engaged in communist infil­
tration of the labor movement, inclutling principal 
officers of l:;.'bor organizations who are mel:lhers of or 
closely a..ffiliat.ed. with the Communist Party. In 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 831 
66 
5-12-61 
, l 
ir;..t 
;le 
~ 
•, 
\ ;· 
}~ , '• 
'~½ 
,} 
·~ 
