I • 
( 
E. 
( 
F. 
SECTION' 107. SECURITY INFORMA.UTS AI;D COllFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 107D-F 
) ' . ) 
4. Except in espiona.and foreign nationality matte-Nhere contact is 
maintained on a periodic basis dependent on circumstances, contact 
potential informants personally at least once every two weeks. 
5. Advise Bureau of progress being made at least every six months. Sub­
mit letters (FD-401) concerning potential informanta who are not being 
paid on Bureau authorization on UACB basis; include summary of infor­
matio!l furnished during _past six months and certifications regarding 
stability and indoctrination against disclosure. Follow form indicated 
under § 1071, item 3b, below, except those items concerning. payments. 
6. Post record of all contacts with potential informants. 
7. During contacts with potential informants, if it develops individual 
does not have necessary capabilities, 1isccntinue efforts. 
8. Informants may raise a question concerning their position if it becom~s 
knonn publicly they are affiliated ;·rith subversive organization. • In .• 
such case, he may be told that his cooperation is matter of record in 
FBI and if some question arises concerning his loyalty we will consider 
making facts of his cooperation kno;·m to his employer or to re.sponsible 
individuals. Before taking steps to advise anyone of potential infor­
mant 1 s or informant's cooperation, obtain Bureau authority. 
9. From first interview with potential ~nfor~znt through development and 
until discontinued, use extreme caution at all times to be .certain he is 
not a plant. 
10. When potential informant begins to furnish current information and 
otherwise qualifies for designation as informant, assign permanent 
symbol number and advise Bureau. This communication must be personally 
initialed by SAC or ASAC acting in his absence. Individual's 
background must be thoroughly revievreq. at this time, keeping 
in mind possibility of using informant as nitness. If individual 
has any weaknesses, set forth saf.eguards being followe'd to 
insure security and prevent embarrassment to Bureau. 
BURE.AU POLICY 
1. Development of military personnel . 
Do not develop informants among military personnel on military reserva­
tions, establishments, etc., unless specifically approved by.Bureau. 
2. Contacts by designated Agents 
Contacts with informant or potential informant should only be made by 
Agent or Agents specifically designated to contact him. 
3 •. Divulging information to informant 
No information should be divulged to potential informant or informant 
concerning any of Bureau's investigative activity other than that which· 
is essential to his prop~r operation. 
4. Recording investigative activity 
"All investigative activity must be made matter of record in field office 
files with all sources of informati o:ri be.ing completely identified. Agents 
must not ha-.e f.nd use informants known only to i:ndividual Agents personally. 
INDOCTRINATION, DIRECTION, AND CONTROL OF INF0:2.MA.NTS 
1. Caution against divulging relationship 
During initial development and consistently thereafter, impress upon 
informant absolute necessity that he refrain from divulging his rela­
tionship with Bureau. These instructions mus't be properly phrased to 
prevent possibility of Bureau's being accused of attempting_ to impose 
cans ors hip. 
2. Developing additional background 
During development of informant, additional data concerning his back­
ground should be continuously obtained from informant. Be alert for 
data revealing he is mentally or emotionally unstable, or has some 
personal problem which would make him a risk. 
3. Indications of instability 
I~.mediately furnish details of any indications of instability to Bureau, 
with recommendations as to informant's continuance and comments as to 
any steps being taken to prevent embarrassment to Bureau. 
5 
... 5-13-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1134 
t 
-I 
! 
I 
I 
-1 
i l i 
~ 
I 
I 
