87D 
[ 
[ 
( 7) 
[ 
,,,.,, 
SECURITY IMVESTIGAT' 'JTION 67. 
• •••• 
• ( b) Satisfactory notes or[ st·atements J from informants nee cs sary 
from which to refresh their recollection ln the event 
they ars called upon to testify at some future date .. Such 
notes[and statements]must be in sufficient. detail to serve 
this purpose and must contain no material 'which would make 
their use inadvisable or inadmissible, 
{c) Informant's original notes or(staternents]not to be blocked, 
stamped, serialized, or mutilated in any way \·thich would 
render them unsatisfactory for use in Federal proceedings 
,{d) The abo~;e applies to .Agent's notes taken during surveillan,:,es 
or evidence otherwise obtained by Agents. 
Inter·views with subjects of s eouri ty investigations 
(a) Purpose • 
I.• To determine a subjeot 1 s sympathies when investigation 
is inconclusive or to determine whether he continues 
to adhere to revolutionary doctrines 
II. To develop information concerning subject 1 s activities 
and those of othflrs known to him to have been associated' 
wi·!;h a subversive movement 
III. To develop security informints 
{b) Subjects not included in the seourity index 
No security investigation of an individual shall be closed 
unless the subject is inoluded,in the security index 
or consideration given to interviewing him. 
(•c) Securi'j;y inde.x subjects 
I. Bureau will. not authorize cancellation of a security 
index card on an individu~l by reason of inactivity in 
a subversive movement until he has been in·!;erviewed or 
Bureau advised why an interview is inadvisable or.im­
possibleo 
IIo Active subversives should be ·considered as potential in­
formants. Consider interviews with selected individuals 
currently active in subversive ·org~nizations for develop­
ment -of additional active informants.. Proper seJ.eotio n 
of individuals for interview is most important. ·They 
must possess necessary attributes for security informant 
worko 
{d)' Without Bureau authority the SAG may: 
I. Authorize intervievts with individuals who have not 
bee·n subjects of security investigations and the 
available subversive information against them is not 
sufficient to warrant opening cases at {;his time 
··II. Grant authority to interview subjects of security oases 
where the persons have previously been interviewed 
III. 
IV. 
with prior Bureau authority, provided no chan1fe has 
taken nlace in the subjects•· status and the interviews 
are co;ducted under the same conditions ~-s previously 
ai.d;horized 
.Authorize int.erviews of all pe·rso ns who were the 
subjects of security investi-gations whe:i.·e t'he cases 
are now~closed (This will include peruons who were 
previously on th~ security index but whose names 
have been removed and the c2.scs now closed.) , 
In authorizing these interviews no com.'Ttunication to 
~he Bureau will be necessary and if there is a closed 
file, it should be reopened. If there is no closed file, 
a new case file of 134 category should be opened. ~~o 
case should be assigned to an Agent to dctor~ine the 
residence of the subject, to make certain that ~he 
subject is identical with the inform:i.t:i.on in the files, 
and[to determine]his current employment, 
(A) The Agent to whom the case is assigned will.prepare 
a memorandum for the SAC setting forth the 
information and requc;;i;.ing authority to conduct 
an interview with the subject sol~ly for thu 
purpose of determining his attitude toward 
cooperating with the FBI. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 812 
38 
10-13-60 
