I 
• • 3 
exposure of KGB activities and counteractions against the 
Soviet intelligence service. The reasons are still unclear 
to me as to why the FBI chose to brief the PFI..\B to the 
_effect that CIA was planning to wiretap extensively and 
indiscriminately in this country, to greatly increase 
the Agency representation in the ~oscow Embassy. and 
~enerally to use KGB-type tactics, also extensively and 
indiscriminately. This led to a heated exchange between 
DCI ~cCone and ~r. Belmont of the FBI, one such meeting 
taking place in the presence of the Attorney General. 
It is clear· that tl1c rBI was opposed to any such proposal 
then, as n~w, and the plan never went forward .. 
5. During the period when Des FitzGerald was in 
charge of the Cuban Task Force, DCI ~cCone's office 
learned, quite by accident, that FitzGcrald hnd secured 
the coopqration of several proninc11t US business firms 
in denying economic ii.ems to Cuba. There was no question· 
but that the busincssrnen were glad to cooperate, but know­
ledge oi this operation llacl to be ra.t-hcr widespread. 
6. On 17 April 1961, ~r. Robert B. Anderson came 
to PCI ;,rcConc on behnl£ of :\mcrica.n business interests, 
offering to insert some :3300,000 to try to secure a 
favorable re:::-rnlt· in the elections in Panama. Shortly 
after ·this approach. fiJEi':-128 of IDEN-129 
made a sil.d.1ar propos~d to ~.lcConc in co11ncction 
with elections •in Chile. On 12 ~ay 1964 at a meeting of 
the 303 Con11.1ittce, it was decided tha.t the o.ffcrs of 
American bus i.ncss could not be accepted. it being· nci t l1cr 
a secure way nor an honorable way of doing such business. 
~his declaration of policy at this time bears on the recent 
ITT hearings, but I arn not surprised tha. t ;1lcCone has 
"forgotten that he helped to set the precedent of refusing 
to accept such collaboration between the Agency's operations 
and private business. 
7. At the direction of Attorney General Robert 
Kennedy and with the explicit approval of President Kennedy, 
McCone injected the Agency, and particularly IDEN-36 
•• I '. •• 
1_ w ' • 
r~!-,._. ,..., ..... • 
t d.:rj t: . .i 
