14-00000 
likely to be many requests from the Board for information ... " 
the Agency Executive Director asked each directorate and the 
DCI Administrative Officer to appoint a focal point officer 
for the JFK Assassination review. (Tab 2) 
In the spring and summer of 1997, the Agency arranged 
for the Board staff to receive a series of briefings by 
representatives of each directorate on the files kept within 
the records systems bf each directorate. These briefings 
covered aspects of the records systems, such as how the 
records are organized, maintained, searched and retrieved, 
as well as how they had been previously searched for 
assassination-related materials. 
The Board staff requested a number of additional 
searches, which have now been completed. • -These requests 
were both formal and informal and resulted in responses to 
the Board staff which included a wide range of additional 
material, some of which was' judged relevant to the history 
of the assassination. This material includes the histories 
of various CIA operations and Agency components, files on 
specific individuals involved in either the Warren 
Commission or in HSCA investigations, and the results of CIA 
internal reviews of programs and operations. Although many 
requests from the Board and responses from the Agency were 
handled informally, the significant initial requests are 
listed in the table in Attachment V. 
Prompted in part by the surfacing of a small number of 
hew relevant documents, the Board staff requested CIA in the 
summer of 1998 to: (a) perform an additional set of searches 
on certain specific topics; and. (b) issue an Agency-wide 
notice reminding CIA employees of the requirements of the 
JFK Act. 
Specially tailored tasking was sent to the three 
-Directorate of Operations components -deemed most likely. to 
possess records relevant to the JFK assassination of the 
kind of concern to the Board (See Tab 3). Among other 
considerations, this special tasking included a list of new 
or revised search terms, a request for clarification on the 
disposition of the James Angleton files, and the requirement 
to focus on potential new information from the debriefing of 
defectors in which any reference to Oswald or to the Kennedy 
assassination occurs. 
DCI Tenet issued aq Agency-wide Employees Bulletin on 
22 July 1998 directing all CIA personnel to "consider 
'r documents in their possession or with which they are 
5 
