[ 
... [ 
[ 
[ 
) 
H. 
I. 
a. 
e. 
S·ECTIOl-l 107. .J\URITY D;"?O::!{ANTS .Alm CONFIDEU'I \ SOURCES 107G - I ..._,ti 
All su.c1: materi.should ·be tra::ismitted in the .e manner as 
statements furnished by informant. 
Receipt of such material should be recorded on form FD-306 or on a 
channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items set forth 
on form FD-306. See section 107M for filing instructions. 
PASSI:NG IN'FO?..MA'!'IOlf nr DOUBLE .AGE;IT OPERATIONS 
1. Carefully handle and create b;e,:;is for acquisition 
a. In double agent operations information requested by the principals 
is frequently passed either to build up a double agent's stature 
or as evidence of espionage activity. 
b. Each case must be carefully e-valuated to make certain that a net 
gain accrues to the u. s. 
o •. The information which is passed should be carefully handled and 
appropriate explanations created for its acquiiition by the double 
agent to a-void his compromise. 
• 2. Locating information to pass 
Wherever possible the field office.handling the clouble a.gent should 
locate appropriate information to be passed; however, the Bureau can 
assist in fulfilling requests for i.nformation in possession of 
Governme1~t agencies. 
3. Obtaining Bureau authority 
Bureau authority must be obtained ,;.:, pass any information in a double 
agent operation except: 
a, •. Newspaper articles •.. -,,;· ··••c•-·'·~-;c;:··=<.-... ._ ... 
b. Magazine articles . -
c. Pamphlets, brochures, etc., prepared by i pri-vate company or corporation 
for distribution or sale to the public. (This does not include highly 
technical pamphlets, eve_n if unclassified, which are prepared fo:r 
limited use by engineering staffs and not intended for release to the 
public.) • 
4. Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be retained by the office of origin of any documents 
or material related to the national defense which is passed in double 
agent operations. 
b. Such·material should be appropriately identified by the double agent. 
c. Bureau Agents should not place identifying data on s1.1.ch material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in connection with the passage 
of such material. 
d. Similar action should be taken with regard to any material which is 
passed which is considered evidentiary although not clearly related 
to the national defense., 
e. It is not necessary to retain copies of build-up material obviously 
not evidentiary in nature v,here there is assurance tba t copies can 
be obtained at a later date from the Government agency or private 
concern having custody. 
SYMBOLS 
1. Assigning nu..·nbers 
a. All informants should be designated by a permanent symbol number of 
which the Bureau tnust be ad-.;·ised. [Once a symbol number is assigned, 
it must not subsequently be reassigned to another informant.] , 
b. Potential security informants and confidential sources w~ose identity 
must be protecteu may be assigned permanent symbol numbers if t~ey :i,:,:e 
producing sufficient in.formation to warrant the use of such designatio11s. 
o. Individuals to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be advised 
·of such symbols. 
d. An additional coyer name should be used by informant in signing his 
statements D-!ld in communications be·l;ween the informant and the field 
offioe. 
e. Bureau should be advised of this cover name in addition to the per­
manen·l; symbol. 
13 
5-12-61 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1403 
