-33-
''I would like to recast the time that this took place. This 
was Aup;ust of '62. This was at the start of -the so-called 
Missile Crisis ..• 
"A tentative decision had been made at that point that 
the only sensible thing to do with [the Ro~elli bperation] 
was .to terminate it as rapidly and cleanly as it could be 
done ... I am sure that I had discussed with Roselli, at 
least on a tentative basis, by August, the probable neces­
sity of terminating thi::; . ·--~-_. . " 
According to the Inspector General's Report, the "medicine" was· 
reported to be still in Cuba at this time. (I~G., pp. 51-52) 
Harvey testified that the Report was referring to the pills 
(Harvey, 6/25, p. 105).* 
-In relation to the August 10 meeting,.Helms was asked whether 
he believed McCone would have stopped an assassination attempt if 
he had known that one. was underway. Helms stated_: 
Mr. Helms: "The reason I say I don 
I
t know· . . is that 
elsewhere Mr. McCone states that he went to see Mr. Mc­
Namara in connection with this August 1962 affair and told 
Mr. McNamara that he wouldn't have anything to do with 
this, that I have no recollection that I don't believe he 
ever said anything to me about his not wanting to have any­
thing to do with· it. 
Q.: "And you were close to Mr. McCone in that period? You 
are his Deputy for Plans? 
Mr. Helms:· "I saw him almost daily. 
Q.: ''And is it your belief that if he had made any such 
statement to Mr. McNamara that he would have come to you 
and told you about it at some point? 
Mr. Helms: "I just don't know why he didn't but I don't re­
call- any such statement. As I said, and·I would like to 
repeat it, Mr. McCone had given me my job, he had -promoted 
me, I felt close to him, I felt loyal to him, and I would 
• not have violated an instruction he gave me if I could have 
possiblv helped it. - ~ ' . 
,\-Harvey .said: "I may have deferred fo: a period of a few weeks giving 
an actual order to terminate this as soon as possible, . 
(Harvey, 6/25, p. 74). 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 97 
II 
