... 
(4)" 
( 
,::·•· ..... 
( 
.ON 87. SECURITY INVFJSTIGATI 
• 
87D 
locate subjects are not to be submitted, The Bureau 
will closely follow investigativ.e action to locate 
missing security index subjects. 
II. If you receive indications that the subject went to 
Mexico or Canada, request the Bureau to alert other 
appropriate Government agencies to this possibility 
and to determine any available verifying information 
through liaison channels. 
III. If the subject is reported to have gone to any other 
foreign country, the Washington Field Office should be 
requested to c~eck the records of the Passport Office" 
of the State Department for verification. 
IV. When all logi.cal leads have been exhausted in the case, 
of a missing important functionary, consideration should 
be given to circularizing all field offic,es with the 
subject's photograph and background information for the 
purpose of alerting the entire field to the i.dentity 
of the subject. Bureau authority must be obtained be­
fore ciroularization is made, Ip seeking Bureau author­
ity, advise the Bureau as to the position held by the 
subject and what efforts have alr~ady been made to locate 
him. 
If this procedure is to be effective, its application 
must necessarily be restrictive in the number of subjects 
to which ~tis applied. Therefore, requests to circularize 
must be made only after every possible lead has been 
exhausted and then only in the cases of the most imp~r-
tant missin~ functionaries, 
Individuais traveiing abroad (Also consider section lOSG,. 
volume IV, of this manual.) 
When information is received indicating that . 
. a subject of a current or past security investigation, 
a past·member of a basic revolutionary organization, 
a member since July, 1950, of an organizatton designat~d 
pursuant to Executive Order 10450, 
a member since July, 1950, of an organization do:.lared 
subversive by the House Committee on Un-.Aroer7. •1 
Activities or other legislative committ~es, c: 
a member since July, 1950, of an organization d&buribed 
. by reliable informants or sources as being dominated or 
controlled by one of the basic revolutiona:ry _o-rganizations 
intends to travel abroad or has already departed this country 
for foreign travel, take the· following action: -
(a) Immediately advise the Bureau[by letterhead memorandum] 
setting forth complete ava:i1-a.b1:e details concerning 
the foreign travel, inclucll.r,g places and dates of departure 
and intended return, destination and' itinerary, purpo,se 
of trip, the exact name under which the passport was 
issued, the :number of the passport, and the office issuin~. 
the passport, if.known. Include in the letterhead 
memorandµm a full description of the subject, including 
a.11 aliases, and in the case of Ch.inese and Korean 
subjects Chinese telegraphic code[and Korean telegraphic 
code]numbers, as well as a concise resume of available 
subversive data regardi~g the su~ject. Do not delay in 
ad;fsing the Bureau of the actual or intended travel •• 
while developing the details of the travel as· time is 
of the essence in this matter. 
(b) • Set ~ut a lead for the Washington Field Office for a check 
of the xecords of the Passport Office, Department of State; 
however, do not limit efforts to develop above information 
to a check of such records. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 £90 
33 
12-18-63 
