SECRET 
25.February 1963 
CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA 
I. Intl'.'oduction 
'I'he public pronouncements of Cuban leaders, the 
daily record of events in Latin America, and reports 
from our intelligence,sources within Communist and 
other left-extremist elements throughout this hemis­
phere all agree on one salient conclusion: that Fidel 
Castro is spurring and supporting the efforts of Com­
munists and other revolutionary elements. to overthrow 
and seize control of the governments in Latin America. 
Even before the October missile crisis--and with 
increasing ranco,r since then--Cuban leaders have been 
exhorting revolutionary movements to violence and 
terrorism, and supporting their activities. Cuban 
support takes·many different forms, but its main thrust 
is in the supply of the inspiration, the guidance, the 
training, and the communications a·nd technical asf3ist­
ance that revolutionary groups in Latin America require. 
In essence, Castro tells revolutionaries from 
other Latin American countries: , "Come to G:uba; we .. 
will pay your way, we will train you iri underground 
organization techniques,· in guerrilla warfare, in sab­
otage and in terrorism. We will' see to it that you 
get back to your homeland. Once you are there, we 
will keep in touch with you, give you propaganda sup­
port, send you propaganda materials for your movement, 
training aids to expand your guerrilla forces., secret 
communications.methods, and perhaps funds and special­
ized demolition equipment." Castro is not, as far as 
we know, ·promising these other Latin Americans any Cu­
ban weapons or Cuban personnel--either leaders, ad­
visers, or cadres. But he probably does tell them: . 
. ''If you succeed in.estiblishing something effective 
by way of a revolutionary movement in your homeland, 
if your guerrillas come down out of the h:i.lls and con­
front regular armed forces, then we may consider more 
concrete forms of assistance." 
so far, it should be .noted, none of the movements 
in South America has reached this final stage--and in 
fact even Castro:'s Sierra Maestra guerrillas never had 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 ~age 7 
