[ 
e 
107P - Q. SECTimi 107. SEC)JRITY TIUO.RHJ...NTS nm CONFIDENTTAL SOURCES 
P. SIGNING OF LOYALTY O.A.THS, .A.FFIDJi.VITS, .A.ND STATEMENTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oath1, .;:r "forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting Agent fully 
·advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a 
form. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4. The ;,_, .. reau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the , .. ,-.formant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the inforr.1ant 's activity; however, such situations 
must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to the 
infornw.nt. 
5o Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to be 
advised·. as ·promptly as possible, together .with an approp:r:iate recom­
~endatlon for proposed action. 
6 •. In no instance s~ould_yo~ p~rmit an informant to sign a l6yalty oath 
in the pegative. 
Q.. DISCONTINU.!!:D INFORM.ANTS 
1. When the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card 
"cancelled. 11 Destroy the symbol card. Never destroy the name card. 
2.. Refile the name card in numerical order by symbol number in the symbol 
n:umbe,r index. If· a discontinued informant or ·;. discontinued potential 
sec11rity informant or confidential source _to ,· .. ·-u a symbol number was 
once assigned later is reactivated, remove hL:, .,a.me card from the 
symbol number index, mark it reactivated with ,.ppropriate date, note 
thereon type of in:fo:rmation he will now be· .furnishing, and refile it 
3. 
4. 
::::: _.,. 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
When a potential security informant or confidential source is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpba­
betjcal index card. 
Advise the Bureau[ of the date )when a potentia·l informant or informant is 
•" i.scontinued and th~ reason theref.or. 
vise the Bureau as to whether or not the info·rmant is willing to testify 
. .. open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
aJ.l cases of security of Government employees type in vrhich the informant 
has £urnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance with section 69F~ volume III 1 of this manual. 
6. Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Depart­
ment I s interest in us.ing the informant for· testifying when he becomes 
aY<",ilable as a witnes·s are contained therein. In those cases in which it 
is evident th-e Department has indicated a desi:t:e to consider the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau in ~ach such 
substantive case, except in those cases in which it is obvious the statute 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This ~xception 
does not apply to security of Go~ernment employees cases. Wh~n all 
ab-eve action is compl~ted, advise the B~ireau. 
7. .A statement shall also l)e made ·to the e.ffect that the measures to con-
tro 1 informants, set out in 8 below, have been cons id0rcd and recommenda­
tions shall be made when it appears that such are warranted. 
8. When the services of c>.n informant are discontini...ed, maj.ntain close 0011-
tact with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for advice 
and. counsel pr:ior to taking any action which would be against the Bureau's 
best lnte1·ests. When an informant is discontinued, determine whet!ier 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newspaper article, or other­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be lmpressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than making other arrangements. If an informant im,ist:, on engaging in 
N:w..&&J2.L Oocld:3298:9529 Paye 1 ti09 
24 
4-13-64 
. ..., 
) 
