( 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
NW 38321 
·(10) 
SECURITY INVESTIGAT. 87D 
In case of individual subject of prior investigation -who is 
currently being recommended for security index, do not dissemi­
nate prior reports. However, prepare a letterhead memorandum 
including pertinent information previously developed which should 
"be disseminated to Secret Service, together with current report. 
Copies of this letterhead memorandum should be forwarded to 
Bureau for dissemination a.t headquarters level. 
[FD-37~ should also accompany succinct letterhead memoranda. sub­
. mitted in priority III' ·security index cases.] 
After initial dissemination to Secret. Service in· security i.ndex 
oases, as changes occur in status of individuals involved with 
respect to residence and employment, advise Secret Service 
locally and furnish two copies of letterhead memorandum to 
Bureau for dissemina~ion at S0G. Form FD-366 may be used for 
this purpose. Letterhead memorandum should contain a reference 
to previous communication disseminated to Secret Service. 
"When reporting changes in residence and/or employment· concerning 
Chinese and Cuban aliens on security index, in addition to dis­
semination to Secret Service, also advise Immigration and 
Naturalization Service (INS) locally, and furnish four copies of 
letterhead memorandum to Bureau for dissemination at S0G. Bear 
in mind in filling out reference that some letterhead memoranda 
have been expressly prepared for.dissemination to Secret Service 
only and have not been furnished to Department or INS; therefore, 
copy fl,U'nished INS locally and two of copies furnished Bureau 
should reference last communication to INS. 
For instructions. pertaining to dissemination to Secret Service 
in other than security index cases, refer to section l34B, 
volume IV, of this manual. 
Upon transfer of office of origin in one of these cases, ol~ 
office of origin is to furnish Secret Service locally with sub­
ject's new residence and business a~dress and advise Bureau that 
such has been done by submission of two copies of letterhead 
. memorandum disseminated locally. New office of origin need take 
no action r~garding dissemination to Secret Service until such 
time as further changes occur with re.spect to subject's status 
or until pre para ti on of next periodic report in case.· 
Dissemination at Bureau 
There are some situations in.which dissemination is made at 
Bureau instead of in field. In majority of instances, informa­
tion received by FBI should properly .be furnished imme.diately 
to some other agency within executive branch of Government so 
that responsibilities of other agency might be fulfilled proper­
ly. Gare must be ta.ken, however, not to disseminate information 
to any field branch of another Gover.nment agency where such a 
procedure is deemed inadvisable because of inadequacy of security 
measures in that branch. In these instances data should be • 
brought to immediate attention of Biµ'eau for dissemination at S0G. 
An example of latter is, of course, Atomi.c Energy Commission, 
which receives reports only through Bureau, as noted in section 
87D 7c (3) of this manual. Information relating to foreign_ 
travel plans of security subjects is disseminated to interested 
agencies, including State Department, on!ly at SOG, as set out in 
87D 6b (4). Dissemination is also made at S0G to State Depart­
ment, unless it appears undesirable., in those cases in which 
subjects have been indicted for violations grounded on su~versive 
activities. 
. '• 
