l 
i 
l J. 
Inc]uded among the FBI records to be retained 
under the Records Retention Plan formulated by the National 
Archives and H<~cords Service are those which would have 
historical value and would document policies,·procedures, 
functions, legislative and budget matters, and the like-­
and reports of investigations of both civil and criminal 
activities, including "crimes involving, and other records, 
concerning F the~ Presidents and Vice Presidents of the 
United States, members of and delegates elected to the 
Congresses of the United States, cabinet heads, judges and 
other officials appointed by the President." 
In r•stablishing the FBI Records Retention Plan, 
the National 1\1:chives and Records Service noted, 
11
Ordinarily 
the records 01 a Federal agency that are worthy of permanent 
retention amou11t to a rather small percentage of the total 
volume of reco1:ds generated. Many of the records produced 
by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, however, relate to 
a number of controversial if not important aspects of the 
history of. tht> United States, particularly to the role of 
the Federal Government in its relation to its citizens. 
To be sur~, mwny years will pass before these records can 
be made availc1ble to the public for historical and 0ther . 
serious re$earch. Nevertheless, the archival value of these 
records will not q_ecrease nor will interest in them dissipate 6 
11 
In nddition, the FBI is also required by the 
Federal Record~, Act, to make records containing adequate and 
proper docume.11t-ation of its administration and operations 
~hich, among other things, are designed to furnish informa­
tiort necessarv to protect the legal and financial interest 
of the Governn1cnt and of persons directly affected by FBI 
activities. 
Practi.\•al Reasons for Retaining Information 
Logic, reason, and lessons learned from more than 
si~ decades o! law enforcement experience dictate that the 
FBI should ma.lntain records of investigations it has conducted 
{category #1 ~lted at the top of page 7) and records of 
information it has disseminated to other agencies (category #2 on page 7). 
Such records enable the FBI to answer questions. or 
challenges (including those arising in judicial or administra­
tive proceedin,rs) involving investigations FBI Agents have 
conducted arid; \,r information the FBI has disseminated t.o other 
- 8 -
NW 38296 Docld:32989624 Page 215 
