13-00000 
-: '.· · .. 
SECRET/SENSITIVE • 4 
• special committee headed-by SHELEPIN who worked under the 
Central Committee to investigate activities and policies of the 
KGB and GRU. They concluded that the Intelligence Services had 
not carried out deStalinization which required that the services 
follow the Leninist concepts of intelligence and its role in· 
po li ti cal action. By way of explanation, the OGPU and Che ka were 
credited under LENIN with having saved the Revolution. This was 
accomplished by suppressing enemies at home,·mounting successful 
penetration operations into Western governments, the manipulation 
- of agents of influence and conducting massive disinformation pro,.. 
grams by feeding deception to the West through their intelligence 
services. Under STALIN • the services degenerated 'into instruments 
of personal terror to preserve his cult of personality and lost 
•. sight of the overall political, .economies and military objectives 
of the Soviets .. 
10. Before STALIN's death, there were anti-Stalinist ele­
ments who were uncovered and repressed, but their cause to find 
a Leninist solution to post-war problems continued after his. 
death. For example, MALENKOV began serious investigations into 
the KGB and other police organizations by enlisting the talents 
of the Leninist/Marxist Institute. It was his objective to have 
the investigation cul°minate in open revelations regarding the 
crimes of STALIN and the activities of .the police state. The 
cours.e which was set would have ultimately led to the· trials of 
KHRUSHCHEV and many members in the leadership who were prominent 
in advancing the Stalinist regime as syncophants and 
11
boot­
lickers.
11 
11. MALENKOV was.unfortunately outmaneuverd by the collec­tive which voted against him on issues, particularly regarding 
Germany. Even in victory, KHRUSHCHEV could not stem the tide 
let loose by MALENKOV; therefore, in order to survive, he had 
to 
11
steal1' the process of de-Stalinization and shape it to his 
own ends and the survival of himself and his friends. This led 
eventually to the 
11
secref speech" regarding STALIN's crimes in 
• which he twisted the facts to exonerate himself and his fo·llowers. 
This led to unrest in the Bloc and the Hungarian Revolution which 
1or.cecf KHRUSHCHEV and his cohorts to initiate plans and programs 
which represented a return to LENIN. 
12. In May 1959, a secret, six-day series of meetings was 
• held for Government bureaucrats possessing a COM INT security 
clearance. It was attended by approximately two thousand members 
from different parts of the Government. The purpose was to hand 
down and explain in Leninist terms the decisions of the 
Central Committee relating to the deStalinization of the intelli­
gence services and to set forth policies which would result in 
their reorganization and reorientation. 
SECRET/SENSITIVE 
