EXILES vs.~ 
CASTR -
A Relentless 
Pursuit 
On Jan. 1, 1959, Fidel Castro took power and 
the first wave of refugees fled Cuba. A small 
number of the 600,000 exiles who settled in the 
U.S. have become extremists. 
Highlights of events in those 18 years, some 
involving /aw-abiding exiles, others involving the 
extremists-
,· 1961: A 1,300-man Cuban Brigade, armed and 
, trained by the U.S. in Florida, Guatemala and Nica­
ragua, landed at the Bay of Pigs on Cuba's south 
shore. The invasion was a failure. 
1962: Survivors of the llay of Pigs were released 
by Castro after payment of a 53-million-dollar ran­
som in drugs, food, medical equipment and other 
supplies from "private contributions." President 
John F. Kennedy, in Miami, pledged to the Cuban 
exiles that the Brigade flag would one day fly over a 
liberated Cuba. 
L'.S. launched its secret "Operation Mongoose"­
a plan to use Cuban . exiles in paramilitary war 
against Castro while U.S. maintained an economic 
blockade to shake the island's economy. The attacks 
generally failed. 
1964: Cuban extremists in New York City fired a 
mortar shell at United Nations as Cuba's Che Gue­
vara addressed the General Assembly. 
196 7: Cuban exile specialists and U.S.-trained 
Bolivian troops trapped and killed Guevara and 
some of his Communist guerrillas in Bolivia. 
1968• 7 2: Cuban-exile extremists bombed ships 
of nations considered to be friendly to Castro, ter­
rorized other exiles to keep them in line. 
1972: Cuban exiles trained by Central Intelli­
gence Agency took part in Watergate break-in, later 
testified that the)" thought it would help their anti­
Castro campaign. 
1973: U.S. and Cuba signed agreement aimed at 
. controlling hijacking of aircraft and piracy of ships 
at sea. _ 
1974-76: Cuban extremists exploded more than 
100 bombs in l',,fiami area in two-year period, hitting 
. offices of the FBI," a State attorney and the ;\'!iami 
·. police department. . 
1 •• Exile terrorists attacked airline offices and consul-
1 
• ~tes of go~·ernments that have diplomatic relations 
with Castr.o'. Bombings took place in Jamaica, r..foxi­
co, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Panama, other countries. 
• Fishing ~boats based in Cuba and Soviet cargo 
ships were attacked by high-speed motor launches 
_ maimed byexile extremists. 
Terr:pr re.f!ched its peak with the bomb sabotage 
·of a Cuban 1tirliner and the death of 73 passengers 
and cr.ew last October 6 -· near Barbados. Police 
seized Cuban exiles in Caracas, Venezuela, on suspi­
cion of involvement in the sabotage. ·Castro can­
celed U.SiCuba hijacking agreement. 
'1ffl 50955 Docid:32423630 Page 22 
CUBAN EXTREMISTS 
[continued from preceding page] 
a former Chilean Ambassador in Washington, D.C., on Sep­
tember 21. 
• Kidnaping two Cuban officials in Argentina. 
• Attempting to kidnap a Cuban consul in ;\fexico. 
Who are ·these terrorists? What motivates them? How do 
they operate? And why are U.S. officials so concerned about 
what they may do in the future? 
To answer such questions, Orr Kelly and Carl j. :'l!igdail of 
the US. News & World Report staff dug deeply into the 
records, interviewed Cuban refugees who share the hopt's 
though not the methods of the terrorists, and talked to L111•, 
enforcement officials who arc trying _to stem the violC'IlC'C. 
BREEDING GROUND FOR TERRORISM 
After Fidel Castro took over Cuba in 19:-5!) and it became 
apparent that he intended to establish a Communist ~tale, 
800,000 Cubam "voted with their feet" and fled their 
homeland. Some 600,000 of them settled in the United 
Stales. They and their children now total 750,000. i\lost of' 
them live in the Miami area. 
The majority of these immigrants are law abiding. But 
Miami's "Little Havana" provides a culture in which the 
virus of violence can grow. 
"In :\fiami," explains one refugee leader, "the Cubans 
keep their national identity, their heritage, traditions, 
hatreds-and their hopes of going back to their hom"eland. 
And they know they can't go back until Castro is gone. So 
\they dream of toppling Castro. What is clearly unrealistic in 
·other places in the United States seems very possible in the 
atmosphere in Miami." 
In the early 1960s, the overthrow of Castro seemed to the 
Cubans in exile to be not only possible but almost inevitable. 
It was U:S. policy to drive him from power. There was an 
attempt to invade Cuba at the !lay of Pigs in 19G I with an 
armv of Cuban exiles recruited and trained in secret bv the 
CI:\: The in\'adcrs were not given the air cover nccessa~y for 
a successful attack, and the operation was a disaster. Olli)' 
180 or about 1,300 invaders escaped death or capture. The 
Cubans felt betrayed. 
Then came other American moves against Castro. There 
was a secret "Operation ~fongoosc,:' which included efforts 
lo assassinate the Cuban leader. The United States backed an 
economic blockade of Cuba in an attempt lo pren'nt Castro 
from obtaining sorely needed supplies and equipment fru111 
abroud. Later, Cuban refugees were qscd to carry out secret 
operations not only in the Caribbeal but also in oll1L'r µ,irts 
• of L1ti11 :\rncricu-and even in Africa . 
To nrnny Cuhan refugees, attacking Castro a.nd Commu­
nism became a way o{ life. 
Since then, however, American policy has foiled .t()_ nutc/1 
in intensity the fierce anti-Castro pa,<ision of the more mili­
t,111t refugees. In recent yc,frs, prominent members of the• 
US. Sl·11,1te have \'isited Cuba. In 1!)73, Cuba made «11 
agreement with the United States to curb the airplane 
hijackers who had been using Cuba as asylum. There were 
mm·cs un both sides to\\"ard normalization of rel,1tions bc­
lln,c11 Cuba and the U.S. 
As their hopes of American action against Castro ebbed, 
some Cuban refugees turned lo violence on their own. The. 
liu, 011 this page gives the chronology of dcvclop1nc11ts. 
TERRORIST LEADERS ANO TACTICS •• 
Though their numbers ,re small, the 300 or fewer active 
tcrrorhts have organized themselves into many grouns. 
Slog;,, .s of one group chalked on the walls in "Little Havana" 
h,1v<" i ,arely bPgun to fodc before 'they are rcp!.iccd b.y _V,1c 
30 US. NEWS & WORLD REPORT, Dec. 6. 1976 
slo 
na 
Su 
66 
Fl 
wh 
tis I 
m,1 
011 
I 
he 
COi 
SU~ 
bu, 
tC'r 
• 
ass. 
Wl' 
me 
oll 
F(' 
St:, 
alt 
ter 
of 
ace 
in. 
• 
On 
Fif 
• Bn 
wli 
nt( 
gt11 
• 
am 
• 
plo 
An 
Pn 
tm, 
wa 
pol 
ma 
a r 
,.,- -:----.shi1. 
• .) ' 
• - ·-T-
--::;,.-,.,•,::c:.:.7,,c. ·re:L .. 
ah . 
~~~-. .cor:. 
&., 
Cu,· 
~ I 
,,.---.-·-----rcn­
we,_ 
tJ11 
out 
acl1 
u-s 
