13-00000 
.•· 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
INSURGENCY AND CIVIL UNREST - cont'd 
In possible connection with the _preceding i tern, 32 
people attempting to flee Cuba we:re c~ptu:red by Cuban -)~ ~ 
securit~forces on 8 De~mber. /Fifth Army Headquarters in 
to@amaguey informed,~avan~ that a '-maritime patrol of the 
coastal igilance observa~~on post captured a boat carrying 
32 individuals in the area of Cayo Mariquibay, north of La 
Bahia de Punta Alegre. On the boat, whic.h had left Caibarien 
three days earlier, government agents found Cuban and l!_St 
monies as well as personal belongings. (USN 56, 2/SL/ElJM -
R3O3-63, 9 December, SECRET ICIMBO) Cf 
A trained clandestine source who is a civil aviation 
expert with the Cuban Ministry of Transportation reports that 
several minor incidents of sabotage have been discovered on 
CUBANA aircraft. On 15 November a CUBANA IL-14 made a 
round-trip flight from Rancho Boyeros Airport to Nueva Gerona 
without a storage battery. The source comments that ~erious 
troubl.e wou:ld have resulted if one engine had stopped or had 
been feathered while en route. This incident may be related 
to various acts of subtle sabotage against CUBANA aircraft, 
such as stuffing exhaust tubes with rags or obstructing car­
buretor intakes. 
In addition; the source reports that a CUBANA Britannia 
ai~craft was sabotaged by Algerian personnel during a recent 
flight to Algiers. The hydraulic line was fractured forcing 
the crew to use manual controls to lower the landing gear for 
a stop in Madrid. (CIA IN 75941, 8 December, SECRET NO FOREIGN 
DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM) 
Press dispatches from Mexico City report that a leader 
of the Revolutionary Students Directorate (DRE) announced 
that 126 Cuban militiamen had been killed in a clash with 
guerrillas 12 miles south of Sancti Spiritus, Las Villas 
Province. Angel Gonzales said that "belated underground 
reports-just received" indicated that the clash took place 
in mid-September when a guerrilla force ambushed a militia 
unit and killed 11 militiamen. The guerrilla forces lost 18 
men, inc'luding Negro. guerrilla leader Andre Startabull and 
three captains identified as Carlos Roca, Julio Garcia, and 
Sergio Perez. The Castro regime then sent 5,000 men sup­
ported by tanks, mortars,. and helicopters to destroy the 
guerrillas. After two weeks of fighting,. the entire guerrilla 
unit was destroyed but not until 115 other militiamen had been 
killed. There is no confirmation from COMINT or other sources 
of any action of the- magnitude reported by the DRE. (AP-131, 
Mexico City, 7 December, UNCLASSIFIED) 
-6-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
