'1'. 
I 
Hr. Dulles said he belie f(:c1 a \lo.rrnnt had been issued 
for tbe nrrest of Lumumba. /,side from Lumumbn,. ~,ol,utu nrip~o.rs 
to be the only mun in the Conso able to act with firmness. A. 
recent attempt to assassinate Mobutu had failed. Mr. Dulles 
then reported that ve had attempted to provide Hobutu 'with 
funds but that the r:.:iiards protectine; Mol.,utu hnd relieved our 
messenc;er of the funds. We cani1ot get flmds to Mobutu because 
he does not have complete control over his guB.rds. A new 
developnent has been Mobutu's creation of a c01mcil of advisers, 
most of vhom are grachw.te students. Tlle old ministers ho.ve 
lx~en turned out of office o.nd their offices have been taten 
over for the council, which is intended to cnrry on for a temp­
orary period. i.\r. Dulles reported tba t the USSR had suffered 
a severe blow to its prestige in the Congo. However, he bad 
been surprised at the e.:ise with vhich the Soviets ,;ere forced 
out of the Congo. He believed that the Soviet diplomnts,after 
departing from the Congo, went to Accra but he did not know 
whether they had moved on to\..-ard the USSR. M.r. Gray nsked 
whether the Soviets were really quitting the Congo. Secretary 
Dillon said the Soviet press has not yet admitted that the 
Soviets have quit the Congo. Hr. Dulles said the Soviet diplo­
mats indicated to the press before leaving that.they would be 
back. Secretary Dillon believed it vas clear that the Soviets 
had not e;iven up in the Congo. Mr. Dulles reported that the 
Soviet diploms.ts left the Congo so hurriedly that the Soviet 
InB.rkinss which they painted over the Conc;o m9.rkings on their 
planes were still wet i,.,ben they left. 1-!r. Dulles se.id the 
Soviet shil)S off the African coast ~;ere apparently 3,.;aiting 
[ 
a clarification of the situation •. Mobutu appeared to be tbeJ 
effective power in the Congo for the moment but Lumwnba vas 
not yet disposed of and remained a grave danger as long as 
he was not disposed of. -~-
Mr. Dulles observed that the situntion in L3.os -was still 
confusing and that little progress had been made toward the 
settlement of the crisis during the-past veek. The tbrentening 
situation in Sar:i Neua Province, ho,.;ever, had been quieted as 
a result of the dispatch of Laotian r..arachute troops to that 
area. The situation reIT'.ains troublesome because Pe.thet Lao 
and Viet Minh forces could intervene at any time. 'D1e problem 
of the conflicting governments in Laos is no nearer a settle­
m~nt. TI1e Kj_ng has req_uested that General Ouane and G€nernl 
Phourni cnll upon him. A skirmisl.l bet ..... ·ccn Phowni I s forces and 
Vientiane forces hns been reported nt Fo.k 13ane, but little 
bloodshed resulted. Apparently, Phow~i has adopted tactics 
of carrying on a war of nerves nga.inst Vi0ntio.ne. 'I"nere hns 
been firing across the Mekong River into the city nnd Phoumi 
apparently intends to starve out the govcnllllent. Meanwhile, 
15. 'IDP SECRET 
mt -~095.~ Docld: :3242:3566 Page 128 
-
