13-00000 
f 
DDO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET 
____ .... 
DOI 50-10. 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
e. Citizens of Norway, West Germany and The Netherlar&ds 
The operational use of any citizen of Norway, West Germany or The 
Netherlands is, under certain conditions, contingent on prior approval 
of the national intelligence service concerned. These countries are par­
ticularly sensitive in cases· involving the operational use of their citizens 
who are merchant seamen and who are serving on ships carrying their 
flags. Each case involving the proposed operational ~se of a citizen of 
one of these countries will be reviewed by the Chief of the· European 
Division in the light of the agreements existing between this Agency and 
the national intelligence service concerned. After weighing all of the 
• equities, the Chief of the European Division will decide whether approval 
is required from the national intelligence service concerned. When . re­
quired, approvals for the operational use of such individuals will • be 
obtained from the appropriate national intelligence services by the Euro­
pean Division. 
f. Merchant Seamen on Ships of Certain Countries . 
The operational use of merchant seamen, regardless of their citizenship, 
who are serving on ships carrying the flags of Aust,r!!!!a, Canada, .the 
United Kingdom ( or its overseas dependencies), New Zealand, Norway, 
West Germany or The Netherlands is, under certain conditions, subject 
to provisions of the • 1.1greements existing between this Agency and the· 
national intelligence service concerned. Each case involving the proposed 
. operational use of such a merchant seaman will be reviewed by the· Chief 
of the European Division or the Chief of the E·ast Asia Division, as ap­
propriate, in the light of the • pertinent interservic.e agreements. After 
weighing all of the. equities; the Chief of the European Division or the 
Chief of· the East Asia Division will determine the course of action to 
be taken with regard to the national intelligence service concerned. 
7. APPROVAL. BY THE DDO REQUIRED 
Approval· by the Deputy Director for Operations for the operational use 
of any individual who falls into one of the . categories described in this para­
graph will be requested by memorandum: The individual's covert approval 
status will be described in the memorandum to. the Deputy Director for 
Operations, together with a concise explanation of the intended operational 
use. (In connection with this paragraph, contacts by the Domestic Collection 
Division with individuals or. firms do not require approval· by the Deputy 
• Director for Operations provided· they constitute .merely· briefing. or de­
briefing for the purpose of obtaining information acquired by an individual 
or representative of a firm in the course of his normal activities. If, however; 
in any case the contact is on • behalf of another element of the Operations 
8 
SECRET. 
0 
0: 
O.· 
l) 
t) 
