TAB D 
DISPOSITION OF ENTITIES SOLD OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF.~ 
WUSHINE/WUGAZELLE 
ZRCREST 
WUCLOAK/WUDUSTER 
WUHARPY 
WUCLOAK/WUVITAL 
The six air proprietaries in the WUSHINE and 
WUGAZELLE complexes were sold as a package in 1969 
to a group of witting U.S. businessmen who had· 
acted as nominee officers, directors, and stock­
holders for the companies in the WUSHINE comp1ex. 
Although the group offered to provide cover and/ 
or air support to the Agency after the sale, this 
offer was not made a condition of the sale, and 
no under~tanding or contract was negotiated for 
prospective purchase of goods or services or 
cover support. To date~ the proprietaries sold 
·have not been used by the Agency. 
These two air proprietary·entities were sold in 
1974 to the businessman who managed both entities 
during the period of Agency ownership. No agree­
ments for the continued use of the entities sold 
were negotiated or implied at the time of sale, 
and, to date, no subsequent use has been made 
of the entities by the Agency. 
This air proprietary was sold in 1968 to the 
witting businessman who managed the entity 
during the period of Agency ownership. No 
agreement for the continued use of the· entity 
sold was negotiated or implied at the time of 
sale, and, to date, no subsequent use has been 
made of the entity by the Agency. 
This air proprietary {parts procurement) was 
sold in 1965 after all assets had been removed 
(a corporate shell) to the witting group of 
businessmen from which the entity was originally 
purchased. No agreement for the continued use 
of the entity sold was negotiated or implied 
at the time of sale. and, to date, no subsequent 
use has been made of the entity by the Agency. 
This air proprietary entity was sold in 1972 to 
an unwitting, bona fide airline company. No 
agreement for the continued use of the entity 
was negotiated or implied at the time of sale, 
and, to date, no subsequent use has been made 
of the entity by the Agency. • 
I -·. ' ', 
......-.<i,, 
t::\\~:· 
~~si(f,:~ 
J;,4~-
;"•,l1!--o .. ' ... ! 
' !'"-
Jlllllllllll'II 
~ 
!11111111111111 ; .. 
fllB'IIIIBIIIII 
