·sECRET Betsy palmer 
Manolo Ray 
Volume VII continued 
QUotes Ray as having said, "When I was Minister of' Public Works, we, the 
inner circle of the Department, took a course in Marxist economics, and if 
what we were taught is communism, I must say that communism is not as 
bad as it is claimed to be." 
8. Report on visit with Ray in Puerto Rico during first week of 
June, 1962, submitted by Winterrowd through Walt Raymond. Winterrow. 
states his general impression of Ray was a good one -- seems of' be a moderate, 
intelligent man, a little given to hysteria and slogan-mongering. Best 
quality is in his skill as an organizer 
9. Cable to Director from JMW'ave, dated Aug 15, 1962 DIR Cite WAVE 7062 
Ray had meeting in Miami area ll or 12 August in which an inf'ormant says 
Ray stated that he has arsenals in Venezuela and .OOminican Republic, has 
a B-26 plane, territory available f'or training in Costa Rica and.. has the 
support through indirect means of U.S. Has invited journalists from New 
York Times and Time Magazine to cover his announcement of the formation 
of JURE. 
1 
/ 0 
10. Cable to Mexico City from Director, dated 6 August 65 says Ray plans 
to travel to Central America late August or September and needs visitors visa 
for Mexico. Says he has close acquaintance and wants to ma_~e -personal 
effort to recruit him or talk him into defecting. 
CIA makes inquiries in an effort to obtain visa for Ray. 
11. Cable to Director from San Juan, dated August 20, 1962. Ray believes 
Llanusa will defect but needs financial support. Jose Gelabert 
to·ma.~epitch to Llanusa. Later cable says CIA willing to offer IJ.anusa 
.$5,000. 
12. Cable to Mexico City from Director, 23 August 1962 with directions 
to proceed to procure visa permit but ma..~e every effort to conceal U.S. 
connection. Ray had agreed in N.Y. meeting to make recruitment or ~efection 
effort towards Cuban _tunbassador in Mexico. 
13. Memo to Chief, Task Force ;,f from Alfonso Rodriguez dated 21~ Aug 1962 
Subject: Operational Use of Ray R"---pendi iJ..l re of Funds 
Rodriguez feels beginning collaboration with Ray can be based on three 
specific :proposals: 1. creation of an intelligence network il1side Cuba 
2. c~eation of recruitment or defection capability 
to 2.ssist our efforts in HEXI, RIO, St_GO, and EONT 
3. immediate effort to recruit in place Carlos IBGHUGA 
and Raul PRTI{ELLES. 
Recommends paying Ray $84,700 over 2. six TIDnth pe~iod to begin this initial 
operation. 
