13-00000...., ___ ~----,-----,.-,-
,---...,, 
- 2 -
There were some questions as to the feasibility of having some­
what larger teama; but Mr. FitzGerald pointed out that that is not 
practicable now. Mr. Bundy suggested that special attention be given 
to electric power installations to the extent that adequate assets 
are available for that purpose.· Be also noted that the two August 
operations had been carried out in a professional and sophisticated 
manner, which leads naturally to the accusation of Agency sponsorship. 
Be urged that to the extent possible attel!lpts be made to vary the • 
method, for example by launching the attack from the shore side rather 
than from the sea, as Mr. FitzGerald had previously said will be the 
case with the lumber mill. Mr. Bundy felt that in this way the "CIA 
signature" might be blurred. 
The Group then discussed the paper prepared by the Board of 
Rational Estimates, on possible Castro reaction to sabotage opera­
tions. No issue was taken with the conclusions of this pap~r, but 
there was .some discussion as to how the Soviets would react to any 
requests made of them by Castro to assist him in combatting sabotage. 
In this connection, Mr. McCone called attention to the increasing 
currents of tension between the USSR and Cuba. 
Mr.· FitzGerald then summarised the results of last month's 
infiltration/exfiltration operations and those proposed for next 
month. 
Cuba• Support of Autonomous Anti-Castro Group 
The Group then turned to further discussion of the paper from 
tile Coordinator of Cuban Affairs dated August 13, on the subject of 
Comandos L. • , 
In response to objections stated at earlier meetings to the use 
of a British base, Mr. PitzGerald said that it would be feasible to 
take off from a point in the northern Bahamas, rather than from one of 
the keys very near Cuba. This would considerably reduce the dangers 
of hot purauit. 
Mr. Johnson said that purely apart from the British problem, 
whether or not such a change in location would alleviate it, he does 
not feel that the typeof activity proposed accomplishes the agreed 
objective of reaching internal resistance elements. 
The Chairman, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone all felt that support 
of this group in the manner outlined, should be considered as action 
additional to that designed to contact the resistance. Further, they 
felt that it would be perfectly feasible, and in fact necessary, to 
avoid any involvement with the British in this matter. It was finally 
I 
1' 
r 
~ 
! 
I 
I 
I. 
t 
