- 9 -
such conversations occurred .. . . . I do believe they did 
occur is that.during the entire.autumn I suppbse I must 
have spoken to Mr. Dulles practically daily about some 
aspect of the whole Cuban operation and I am virtually 
certain that he would in one -0r anoiher of those con­
versations and probably more than once have asked if 
there was anything to report abo~t the Sheffield Edwards' 
operation. He also may have been in direct contact with 
Edwards at that time." (Bissell Tr. 6/9/75, pp. 24-26) 
When asked by the Chairman why, in this context, 
persons within the Agency talked "in riddles to one another", 
Bissell replied that: 
11 
•• I think there,was a reluctance to spread even 
on an oral record some aspects of this operation. 
"Chairman: Did the reluctance spring from the fact 
that it simply grated against your conscience to have 
to speak more explicitly? 
"Bissell: I don't think it grated against my conscience. 
I think it may have been a feeling that. the Director 
[Dullesl preferred the use of the sort of language that 
is described in the .I. G. Report." 
Bi_ssell, in a subsequent appearance before the 
Committee, again addressed the issue of whether he and Edwards 
had made it clear to Dulles that what was involved was an 
assassination operation: 
"I thought I made cl~ar that it was my impression--and 
I believe the impression incident.ally that• I thought 
was confirmed. in the [I. G. Report]--that in discussing 
this with Dulles and Cabell ... the objective of the 
operation was made unmistakably clear to them. The 
terms 'an intelligence operation', I think someone 
said, was that not a cov~r designation? But we would not 
under any circumstances have told Allen Dulles that this 
was an intelligence collection operation. If I said that 
on Monday, I must have given a wrong impression." 
(Bissell Tr. 6/11, p. 24.) 
On the other hand, Scott Breckenridge; the only .... 
. \ author of the Inspector General's Report still with the CIA, 
~._) 
testified that in his·opinion a "pointed avoidance of 'bad 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 73 
