13-00000 
. . 
eQaluate it, as most of the people in the country. And 
therefore, the disclosure of these documents are extremely 
important. . 
Looking at your testimony, Mr. Gates, I notice- that 
you indicate that some of the documents-which are relevant to 
this inquiry cannot be reieased by bhe CIA because they are in 
fact documents which belong to other agencies. , • 
----· ------·--· --Woald-yeu--commen t- ·on--that-an-a-ctartfJ,·-th-a t-p·a rtl cfil a r 
statement in your testimony? 
GATES: Yes, ma'am. In the course of the post 
assassination investigations, a. great ·deal of information was 
shared among the agencies. For example, in the 17 boxes of 
Oswald records that we have, approximately 40 percent of those 
documents originated with the FBI, and were simply made available for information to-CIA~·· • ••• -- --
About 20 percent originated with the state Department 
or other agencies, immigration and naturalization and so on. 
Under th~ third-agency rul~, it is our-obligation to 
leave it to those agencies to declassify their own documents .. we 
cannot do that, and by the same token, they exercise the same 
practice with us. 
REP. MINK: Now, would the legislation that we are 
considering now make it possible for your agency, as the 
cus-ted-4.an of records that you have been given by other agencies, 
be included in your own disclosure? Can we make that possible? 
GATES: I don't think the legislation would do that, 
Mrs. Mink. I· think that it would simply require those other 
agencies to undertake the same steps that we are in terms of 
reviewing for declassification the documents that they 
originate<L---······ ·" • 
• We don't hold the record copies of those documents. We 
simply have copies of them. 
f.L::f'~ M1Nt( • Now, in the materials that you have volunteered for 
disclosure, with reference to Oswald, how much of the materials 
in your possession, therefore, had to be excluded.because they 
were documents th~t your agency had been provided by other 
governmental agencies? 
GATES: Let me answer, and then check with my 
colleagues to make sure I got it right-, in this very thin file, 
of the 34 documents, I think only 11 were originated by CIA. My 
impression is that the others had all--belong to other agencies 
had all already been declassified. That's correct. 
REP. MINK: So that we have the total file with 
reference to Oswald now in the public domain? 
GATES: The total file that CIA had in its possession. 
REP. MINK: But you just said that all the other 
agencies have also already declassified, meaning that they are 
part of the public domain, and cannot be obtained, if not 
necessarily voluntarily released by those agencies, are now 
available public documents? 
