[107W 
[ 
SECTION 107. - • -[INTERNAL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
I 
t [ 
[ 
! 
[ 
t 
I 
[ 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
d. Administrative handling of documents, written reports, and oral 
information selected for passage 
(1) Documents and written reports 
Field offices should retain a copy of document or written 
report passed which would be identified by OA as a true copy 
of item passed by him. No other marks, identifying data, 
staple or punch holes should be placed on field office copy. 
When submitting document or written report to FBIHQ, identify 
it, in cover communication, as the actual item which will be 
passed or a copy. 
To insure that the actual document to be passed is not con­
taminated by fingerprints of FBI personnel, maintain in plastic 
envelope when being handled in field office or when submitted 
to FBIHQ. 
Documents obtained by FBIHQ or other field offices from com­
mercial concerns or other government agencies which will be 
passed will be handled in similar fashion. 
If GOPY of document is maintained on permanent basis by 
preparing concern or agency and available at a later date, 
no need exists to submit copy to FBIHQ or to maintain in 
field office file. If copy not maintained on permanent basis, 
a copy should be retained in field office file. 
(2) Oral information 
Oral information passed must be recorded in a signed statement 
or FD-302. 
Purpose for preserving documents and written reports is for evidence 
in event of prosecution, persona non grata action, expulsion, etc. 
21. Oral information received from debriefing asset 
Oral information received upon debriefing an asset (i.e., not necess~rily 
pertaining to information passed) must be recorded in a signed statement 
or FD-302. 
22. Coverage of OA meets with foreign intelligence officer, co-opted worker, 
or agent. 
Coverage of these meets is required except when prohibited by security 
or other overriding factors. 
a. To cross-check the OA. We must be as certain as possible that the OA 
is reporting details of his meets accurately. 
b. To verify identification of principal or -agent and to gather infor­
mation about modus operandi. 
,c. Consider use of photography and other technological surveillance 
techniques to provide data for improving future CI operations or 
improving chances for success of official actions, e.g., prosecution, 
persona non grata action. 
Be aware that these meets are often covered by the principal's intel­
ligence service using photography, radio intercepts, and possible 
electronic surveillance. 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
34 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1779 
• 
• 
• 
