13-00000 
What the National Committee in Washington, D.C. 
is do.ing about computerizing files of evidence, in­
itiating lawsuits to obtain information, etc.; and 
comments on two new books by District Attorney 
Jim Garrison and Robert Blair Kaiser. 
March 1971 
35 '"The Assassination of President Kennedy: The Ap­
plication of Computers to the Photographic Evi­
dence" - Comment 
35 I. Another View, by Benjamin L. Schwartz, Ph.D. 
A polemical attack on "The Assassination of 
President Kennedy: the Application of Com­
puters to the Photographic Evidence" by 
Richard E. Sprague pul=!lished May 1970. 
40 II. Response, by Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor 
45 .-~strict Attorney Jim Garrison on the Assassination 
of President Kennedy: A Review of Heritage of Stone 
by Neil Macdonald, Assistant Editor 
April 1971 
32 The Right of Equal Access to Government 
Information 
by the National Committee to Investigate Assassi­
nations, Washington, D.C. 
May 1971 
XI The Assassination of President Kennedy: The Spatial 
Chart of Events in Dealey Plaza 
by Robert B. Cutler, Architect 
The chart, first published in May 1970, is revised 
and brought up to date. 
June 1971 
41 The Case of Secret Service Agent Abraham W. Bolden 
by Bernard Fensterwald, Attorney, Executive Di­
rector, National Committee to Investigate Assassi­
nations 
Bolden wanted to tell the Warren Commission 
about a Chicago plot to kill President Kennedy, 
and was jailed six years on a framed-up charge 
for trying to do so. 
July 1971 
61 The Central Intelligence Agency and The New York 
Times 
by Samuel F. Thurston, Newton, Mass. 
The issue of systematic suppression of questions 
about the assassination of President John F. 
Kennedy, and ·a hypothesis. 
August 1971 
:r, Jim Garrison, District Attorney, Orleans Parish, vs. 
the Federal Government 
by Bernard Fensterwald, Attorney, Executive Di­
rector, National Committee to ln\lestigate Assassi­
nations 
How District Attorney Jim Garrison of New 
Orleans became interested in the New Orleans 
phase of the assassination of President Kennedy; 
and how the Federal government frustrated and 
blocked his investigation in more than a dozen 
ways. 
September 1971 
26 The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Assassi­
nation of President Kennedy 
by Bernard Fensterwald, Attorney 
How J. Edgar Hoover and the FBI withheld much 
pertinent information from the Warren Commis­
sion, flooded them with irrelevant information, and 
altered some important evidence, thus concealing 
Oswald's connections with the FBI. 
October 1971 
41 The Assassination of President Kennedy - Declassi­
fication of Relevant Documents from the National 
Archives 
by Richard E. Sprague 
The titles of the documents and other evidence 
indicate convincingly that Lee Harvey Oswald was 
trained in spy work by the CIA before his visit to 
Russia; etc. Like the Pentagon Papers, these doc­
uments should be declassified. 
November 1971 
24 The Assassination of Presid,mt Kennedy: The Pattern 
of Coup d'Etat and Public Deception 
by Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor, Computers and 
Automation 
Five significant, eye-opening events from May 1970 
to October 1971, showing patterns of coup d'etat, 
assassination, and concealment; and some predic­
tions. 
December 1971 
32 The Assassination of President John F. Kennedy: A 
Model for Explanation 
by Vincent J. Salandria, Attorney, Philadelphia, Pa. 
A study of the reasons why a great deal of the 
Fsderal government's own evidence in the assassi­
nation of President John F. Kennedy declared 
"conspiracy" - and a hypothesis, supported by 
considerable evidence, about why the President 
was assassinated and how the implications of that 
action were to be signaled to those who could 
read the signals. 
6 The Strategy of Truth-Telling 
by Edmund C. Berkeley 
Editorial 
January 1972 
57 Spotlight on McGeorge Bundy and the White House 
Situation Room 
by Robert B. Cutler, Manchester, Mass. 
An argument that the "lone assassin - no con­
spiracy" announcement from the White House 
Situation Room could have resulted from infor­
mation available in Dallas and Washington prior to 
the announcement - and thus does not actually 
demonstrate that someone there had a guilty fore­
knowledge of the shooting. 
