13-00000. 
l • • 
-SSGRE-T 
SUBJECT: Release of JFK Documents 
Oslo - Public acknowledgment would draw questiol'l.s from 
the press and threaten very productive and very sensitive 
ongoinq joint operations. (S) 
Madrid - Publio acknowledgment would draw prAaa 
attention and embarrassing questions for the government and 
liaison service. 'l'his would further damage an already 
dalicate liaison relationship which is vital to us for 
counterterrorism operations. • (S) 
Stockholm - A neutral country. Public ackpowledgment 
would be politically embarrassing for the government and 
liaison services. This would likely andanger any 
continuation of joint operations. (S) 
Geneva. - A neutral country. Public acknowlQdgment 
would create political problems for the government and 
liaison service and force greater attQntion to our 
operations. This would create an intensive 
counterintelligence atmosphere for our operations; likely to 
cause a decrease in our operations. (S) 
London - No specific damage. (S) 
Ottawa - No specific damage. (S) 
5. our Eastern European stations pose a unique problem when 
we considar public exposure. Prague Station is recovering from 
operating for almost fifty years in an undeclared status. During 
the last three years we have managed, with much effort, to begin 
the establishment of good working relations with the host 
government and internal/external services. As a·result, tha 
station has. recently begun.some very sensitive and high-level 
bilateral operations. ThesQ obviously depend upon the good will 
of the host service. The Czech citi2enry·came of age in an 
at.mosphere in which distrust of intelligence services in gQneral, 
and the CIA in particular, was thoroughly ingrained. That 
distrust lingers in the public's mind even today. Exposure of 
our station's previously undisclosed presence and operational 
activities during the Cold War will necassarily raise questions 
about our activities then, and almost certainly lead to furthQr 
3 
-SBCPE't 
