.• 
( 
( 
. ·-
t 
( 
( 
[ 
( 
•.· 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
(b) 
(c} 
(g) 
(h) 
,,.... 
.,,ION 87. SECURITY DiVi:STIGATIO. 
Where p;tentizl dangerousness of.a subject has· boen 
established and inclusion of that subject in security 
index is warranted, tho office of origin shall submit a 
recommendation for inclusion in security index by sub­
mitting form FD-122 to Bureau. Form must be prepared 
87D 
in triplicate, Original and one copy shall be forwarded 
to Bureau and one copy will be placed 'in subject 1 s 
investigative case file. ,. . 
Nothing should appear on FD-122 or subsequently on the 
security index card which is not in the subject 1 s·case 1ile. 
Form lt'D-122 hc1.s tw.o uses: {1) to recommend a subject for 
inclusion in the security index and {2) to submit changes 
to data which appears on face of security index cards 
already existent. 
Proper seiection should be made in.the opening pa~ 2ph 
option. FD-122 is submitted v1ith abstract when u to 
recommend ·l;he· subjec·t fo:i.· inclusion in th.e secur:i:~. i.ndex 
and without abstract when used to indicate a~ditio~~, 
dele:i;ions, or changes in data appearing on existing cards. 
When form FD-122 is submitted to Bureau recommending in­
clusion of a name.in security index, attach an additional 
page or pages setting out a succinct sturunary of facts on 
which recommendation has been based. Facts must be in 
detail to clearly show soundness of recommenda:tion. 
Statements of conclusion are pot enough and o~iginal sources 
m1:st be cha:racterized as to rel~ability. Summary must con­
tain pertinent dates of subject's activities. 
When, at conclusion of investigation, subjt:'ot's name is not 
being recommended for security index, set out a brief 
. summary statement in t'he ap.propriate communication closing 
the case showing reasons for the deci·sion. . . 
Securi.ty index cards shall be recommended by and maintained 
by office of origin only. 
A·current report must be in possessiori of the Bureau when 
subject is recommended fer security index. If it· is the 
initial repor-1; in the case, it mt,st be a summary report. 
I:f, howe-ver, prior inYestigati-ve reports have been sub-
• mitted which are suitable for dissen_1ina.-tion and are 
appropriately documented, a surc:mary rapor·l; need not be 
_s~bmitted; . . . . _ 
To as sure that· subject recommended for socuf~i ty index will 
receive proper attention, case shall be kept in pending or 
.pending-inactive status until security index card has been 
received from Bureau and fi_led in office security index. 
If case continues in pending status because of outstanding 
investigation, reports shall carry a·lead to follow author­
ization of security inde·x card by the Bureau(and' if ap1)roved 
,to submit letterhead memorandum for Secret· Service Jin • 
addition to other leads. If outstanding investigation 
has been completed and case would otherwise be closed 
.upon submission of th-e report a.nd form FD-122, c;:,.se shall 
be placed in pending-inacti~e status with lead to follow 
authorization of. security ind·ex care. by Bureau[ and if 
approved submit letterhead memorandum for dissemination to 
9ecrei Service.) In latter instance, upon receipt of[security 
index card and following local dissemination to Secret Service 
of Bureau-approved l~tterhead memorandum,]case .may be closed 
administratively. 
Recommendatiun .for security index card should not be delayed 
because oi absence of i-nforr:tation conce:::·nin~ !'ace, ·sex, 
ci tizensbip, d:i. te and ?lace -,f birth, or de:: ..:·iption where 
security index card·is warranted. In such !~s~ances, rec­
ommendation for -the card shculd be submitted with a. current 
report and case retained i~ pending status with active 
investig~tion cc~ti~uir.g tc dater~ine missin~ items of 
inf orma.t ion. 
'621 
47 
12-11-64 
