14-00000 
1400.2 {continued) 
(b) & (c) [ ok ] 
(d) & (e) [add wording to identify time period for 
'these records such as "at the time of the assassination and 
investigations".] 
1400.5 Requirement that assassination records be released in 
their entirety. 
An assassination record-shall be disclosed in its 
entirety except for portions specifically·postponed ... ,and 
no portions of any assassination records shall be withheld 
from public disclosure solely on grounds of non-relevance. 
[If this applies to an "individual" assassination record 
then there is no problem. However, if it applies, as I 
suspect, to files and groups of records then we have a majqr 
problem of privacy and source protection with the OP and 201 
files. It may be possible to "postpone" the 201 and OP 
files under tne Privacy exemption and National Security Act, 
however, the FBI approach to amending the regulation to deal 
with "incidental appearance of assassination material" seems 
a better approach. Our proposed amendment should include 
"files" as well as "records". 
1400.6 Originals and Copies 
(a) (2) add "available" after "the earliest generation 
print" 
(b) in cases where a copy, as defined in paragraph (a) 
of this section is authorized ... the board may .. . require a 
certified copy. 
[In some cases our file copy or original is a previously 
sanitized copy of the document; we may have to "certify" 
theses copi·es as the "original" file COPJ:;] 
1400.7 Additional guidance 
(d) ... Any records identified with respect to a 
particular person also includes any records for that person 
by any other name, pseudonym, codeword, symbol, number or 
cryptonym ... 
[This needs clarification. It the goal of this section is, 
to ensure that all files on an individual/project are 
provided regardless of how filed {under name, crypt, etc.) 
then I do not see a problem. However, with out clarifying 
language, this section could lead to the type of situation 
described by Gloria. FBI also requested clarification.] 
