• 87D 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
_ ... __ 
'• "!•" -·: . 
SECURITY INVESTIG.ATiv1~. 
II. Mark cancelecl across face of each such card being 
retained and file it in the reserve index. 
III. Consider whether the subject's name should be placed 
in seation A of the reserve index. If his name should 
be included in section A, submit form FD-122a, 
[IV. The above instructions do not apply in the case of 
individuals removed from the security index based unon 
activity in the Nation of Islam. Seouri ty index cai-ds 
in such oases should be destroyed.] 
(h) Subjects of Chinese extraction 
_In any conununication reconm1ending cancellation of a security 
index card on 8, subject of Chinese extraction, such commu­
nication must contain the words "Other - Chinese," This 
regulation relates specifically to those subjects placed 
on the s e~uri ty index following a recorr ... 'llendation submitted 
in accordance with the instructions contained in section 
87D 7b (4) (j) above. 
Priority apprehension program {DETCOM) 
{a) Purpose 
(b) 
Many individuals included in security index because of their 
training, violent tendencies, or prominence in subversive 
activity are extremely dangerous and would be more inclined 
to commit or capable of committing overt·acts against the 
u. s. in time of national emergency than would others in 
security index. Degree of dangerousness of such individuals 
is so pronounc.ed that in interest of security th~y must 
be :i.mmobili-zed in the least possible time prior to others 
in S!;!cur_ity index. The administrative procedure developed 
to make apprehensions on a priority basis is referred to 
as the detcom program. Subjects designated for priority 
appreh~_nsion ·a.re referred to as dctc_om subjects• 
Individuals in security index tabbed detcom would be 
arrested first in event of a limited but grave ~mcrgenoy, 
probably without the arrest of other security index subjects. 
In an all-out emer·gency, all subjects whose names are in the 
11ecurity index will be considere-d for immediate apprehension. 
Subjects tabbed for detcom should ·comprise a ha.rd core 
of subversives. Each individual case should stand on its 
o~n merits and decision to consider subjec~s for iriority 
~f apprehensicin should be based on subject's subversive 
activities and revolutionary tendencies. 
Subjects to. be tabbed detcom 
Each security index subject should be considered for detcom 
tabbing {priority of arrest) who falls within one or more 
of following categories: 
I., .All top functionaries and 1cey figures 
ILe Currently active communists or members of any basic 
revolutionary organiz~tion (~ctive·withi~ pn.st year} 
when there is e-vidence of one or more of following: 
(A) Activity as local organizers or leade 7s in the 
organization 
(B) Special training at Lenin School or r'ar Eastern 
Institute in Moscow 
("c} Exper.ience as picket captains, s trong-a.rrn me.n, or 
active participation in violent strikJ~, riots, or 
demons tra tio ns 
(D) Violent statements or strong revolutionary tendencies 
as shown, by their acti vi tics 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 874 
'· 
