( 
IV. The following specific documents are also requested; 
1. All documentation of the destruction of files on "49 
personalities" which had been compiled by the Special 
Operations Group/CI 
2. The indices to the Domestic Assets Inventory kept by the FRD 
3. All responses by the Foreign Resources Division to the 
4. 
5. 
request of Director Schlesinger fo·r information on "question­
able activities" including any "follow-up" responses to 
Director Schlesinger, Director Colby or the IG. 
All employee responses or memoranda of conversations with 
employees both from within FRD and elsewhere in the CIA, 
and all other memoranda, notes, or other documents and 
materials used by FRD in preparing any of the responses 
to DCI or used in preparing any related briefings of the 
DCI or his assistants. 
May 29, 1973 memorandum from Chief, Covern·Intercept Branch, 
Division D, FI Staff to the Inspector General (TS-Eyes Only­
Control SC 06611/73) 
All other responses by Division D to the request of Director 
Schlesinger for information on "questionable activities," 
including any "follow-up" responses to Director Schlesinger, 
Director Colby or the IG 
't:I :::r C 
j ..., 
a 
3 
;;. 
All employee responses or memoranda of conversations with n 
employees both from within Division D and elsewhere in CIA, C 
6. 
and all other memoranda notes or other documents and materials S 
used by Division Din preparing any of the responses to DCI 0: 
or in prepari_ng any related briefings of DCI or his assistants. "' 
Western Hemisphere Division's list of Cuban refugee organ­
izations in which CIA had interests (Page B-17, Tab 15 of 
CIA notebook on domestic activities prepared in response to 
Part IV of Committee March 12 document request.) 
7. May 15, 1973 memorandum by Harry B. Fisher to DD M & Son 
"irregular activities." 
8. All Inspector 
activities," 
the I G Report 
General memoranda to DCI ·regarding "questionable 
"Family Jewels" or similar matters subsequent to 
of May 21, 1973. 
9. All Office of-Security Watch Office tapes and transcriptions 
thereof for the period June 16 to June 22, 1972. 
Hlf 50955 Docld:32112656 Page 19 
