SUBJECT: Sensitive :tivit1es Performed by tr. Office of 
Logistics 
• • the DD/O, we will not honor any requisition fer scrveil­
lance equipment.unless it has been approved by ~~e CI 
Staff of the DD/O. 
(: Within the area of contractual responsibiliti~s, the 
following items are pert~nent: 
a. In February 1971, Colonel L. K. White, the then 
Executive Pirector-Comptroller, called me to attend a 
meeting in his office, also attended by Mr. William Colby. 
· Colonel White exolained that the Technical Services 
Division (TSD) had been reqt1ested to provide· assistance 
to the FBI for a sensitive project _ . 
. Colonel White did not dis­
close· the piirpose of the assistance being provided by TSD 
but did i~struct me to assist TSD on purely contractual 
matters. Since the Office of Logistics has no information 
co~cerning the mission or purpose of Project sub­
stantive questions concerning the subject should be 
.addressed to TSD. Other nrocurecent actions accomnlished 
for the .FBI_a.re- .. rc:oor:,:ted belnt,~. Specific mention is made, 
however, of the Project because of the dollar magnitude, ap-
proximately $1 million, and the conplex technical equip­
. ment that has been involved in the undertaking. 
b. The Procurement Division, OL, currently has t~o 
requisitions in hand fror.1 TSD Khfch ,,·oulcI involve reim­
bursable sales to the FBI. One such reauisition in the 
amount of $36,900 is for t,,;o i•:estinghouse television 
cameras. The second requisition in the anount of $11,200 
is for two ~ide-angle surveillance probes rn~nufactured by 
Bausch.and Lonb. Xo action is being taken on either of 
these requirements pending further instructions ~hich 
will be sought from the Deputy Director for Management 
and Services. 
c. Over the years, this Agency has often supported 
other Government agencies frorn a contractual or materiel 
standpoint. Upon the submission of an officially approved 
• request, supported by a transfer of funds, the Agency 
would either enter into "accor.1ri1.oda tion procurernen ts" for 
the requesting agency or support the requesting zgency by 
the issuance of materiel frora stock. Such actions are 
legally accomplished under the Economy Act of 1925. This 
Act authorizes one agency to support the needs of, or pro­
~ide a service for, another Governraent igency when such 
NW'3829fi:" Docld:32989624 Page 42 
EYES or\_JLY 
·SECRET 
001.12 
