S'U.TEMENT BI E. HOWARD Htirl' 
A. :,ear ago when Congress established the Church Committee, Senator 
Baker was quoted as sa.ying that I would be an early witness. I was than .tree 
on Appeal and readily available to testi.fy concerning CIA involvement 1n 
allegedly illegal activities. Moreover, I viewed testifying before the opportunit:r 
Committee as a further/to testify under oath concerning my total non -
involvement with Messrs Oswald, hmer and Sirhan, persons with whom DO" 
name has been slanderously and libelousl;y linked in press and electronic 
media. .Although· I had been intemewed previow,ly by the FBI and the Rock­
efeller Connission with regard to these allegations a host of assassination 
bu.ffs and media advocates continued irrespcmsibly to associate me with the 
deaths of the Kenneq brothers and the crippling of Governor Wallace. 
M,Y Appeal denied, I re-entered prison in April,1975. Three weeks 
later US Marshals escorted me to Waahingtcm DC for what tu.med out to be a 
three-hour intemew vi.th a no Watergate Assistamt Special Prosecu:tor. For 
a 9-dq period I was lodged at the Leesburg, Va., jail,and f'in&ll;r returned 
via Detroit and Tallahassee were I ws 1.aprlscmed in the isolaticm area 
before being driven on Mq 26 to Eglin Federal Pri111110n Camp. On May 27, 
Assistant Comldttee Comunel Michael Hadiga telepbcmed me to sq that the 
Church Colllld.ttee wanted to interrlew me "vi.thin the next two weks". I 
apprised Mr. Hadige of Public Lav 93-209, Tit.le 18. Seo.4082(c) Para. 1 
(amrmded) which autborius mi.nil.'IWII aeco.rity priscmera ouch u 1117aelt to be 
furloughed for up to 30 dqs for purposes of testi.r.,ing. Coml8el Madigan 
agreed to 111' testifying cm this tm-lough bui1111. 
°"9r the l!BWlllll!ller,hovever, I be&l"d nothing further from Ht-. Madigan 
or hia Caad.ttee associates. Then in llid•Septenber a Wasbington POsr ator., 
alleged that I had been &l!lsigned b,y a White Howse superior to ususinate 
colt.mnist Jack Anderson. Senator Chm-ch wu thereupon quoted u saying 
that his Committee would imreatigate the charges. I wlcoaed this apparmt 
