( 
( 
( 
! 
l 
f 
4. 
5. 
6. 
S.ECTTON 87. 
• Definitions 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVER~IVE 
ORGANIZA:fIONS AND INDIV _,LS 
87A 
The term "subversive activities 11 as used in this section denotes 
activities which are aimed at overthrowing, destroying or unq.ermining the 
Government of the United States or any of its political subdivisions by 
the illegal means prohibited by statutes enumerated in A. 1. above. The 
term "subversive organization" or "subversive movement" deriotes a group • 
or movement which is known to engage in or advocate subversive activities, 
as defined above. 
Predication for investigation 
In all cases handled under the provisions of this section, the first 
communication prepared which indicates an investigation is being initiated 
(intraoffice memorandum, letter 1 airtel, teletype or report) should 
show SP.ecifically the statute upon which the investigation is•based 
together with all the supporting facts. Such a predication must be 
included in the first communication to FBIHQ and the first report ·or LHM 
prepared in each case. Where investigation has been speci~ically 
requested by Department, this should be indicated in predicat~on. The 
following examples are illustrative; however, the predication for each 
individual case must be tailored to the circumstances of such case. 
a. "This investigation is based on information that the subject's 
activities may be in violation of T18, USC§ 2383 (Rebellion or 
insurrection), and§ 2384 (Seditious conspiracy) .. A source· whose 
reliability has not been determined has informed that the subject is 
pla11ning, along with others, to travel-to Washington, D. c., on April 30, 
1971, to participate in planned violent demonstrations during the 
first week in May, 1971, to 'shut down the Government.' Demonstra-
tion plans include the blocking of streets and highways~ destruction 
of personal and Government property, and physical obstruction to 
prevent Government employees from reporting to work. 11 
b. "This investigation is based on information that the subject's 
activities may be in violation of T18, USC§ 2385 (Advocating the 
overthrow of the Government). The subject is an admitted member 
(or has been identified as a member by a confidential source who· 
has provided reliable information in the past) of (name of group). 
The- (name of group) in its public statements and publications advocates 
the desirability and necessity of overthrowing the u. S. Government by 
force or ·violence, and the assassination of u. s. Government officers. 
The same source has reported that the subject actively supports these 
positions. 11 
If the statutory basis for an investigation should change.or be expanded 
to include an additional statute or statutes, the first communication 
prepared subsequent to such change or expansion should specifically show 
such changes. Similarly, this information should be included in the next 
report or LHM prepared in the case. 
Accuracy of characterizations . 
Assure that statements relating to characterizations of an individual 
or organization, or relating to affiliations with or membership in any 
organization, are founded on a firm bases. Identify sources for such 
characterizations or statements of affiliation or membership if such 
characterizations, affiliations or memberships are not commonly and • 
publicly known. 
...: ,, 
. '-·.i,'3 
5 
6-6-73 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 H!:65 
·i 
l 
I 
I 
j 
I 
! i 
! i 
l 
l 
l 
i 
! 
l i 
. i 
! 
l 
! 
i 
I ! I 
! 
I ' I 
l 
I 
I ! 
