NW 
. • 
3 
Page 382 
.-: .. 
I 
January 15, 1960 
BERNIL.~D J. GOLDFINE 
_ Al though we are not involved in the Goldj•i,ne matter, 
J th i,s case is currently the subject of' a great deal of'. discussion 
between the Tax Division and the Treasury Department. 
l 
Tne Goldfi,ne tax j'raud investigation, according to 
our Treasury sources, is scheduled to go bej'ore grand; jury in 
Boston next month. Gold/i,ne and his nine New ·England companies 
owe the Government approximately eight.million dollars. Thi,s, 
o/ course, includes interest, 6%; delinquency penalties, 25%; 
and fraud penalty, 50%. You will recall that the approximate 
f'igure appeared in the newspapers an.d _the Goldj'ine dej'ense 
charged that. this was en attempt on the part of' the Governm,ent 
to try its case in the newspapers. 1Vo action was· taken by 
Treasury to look into this• alle;;ed leak oj' in/orma·f;ion on -f;he 
request o/ the To.x Diuision oj' Justice since the total j'igure oj' 
Goldfine 1s delinquency had been discussed withGoldj'ine and his 
tax attorneys. It was J~lt that they could have planted the 
story in the press. Internal Revenue Seruice {IRS) has also 
established a tax case on Goldfi,ne t3 son., Horace., wh i,ch approximates 
$99,000 delinquenctand a similar case has been made on Mildred 
Paperman, Goldj'ine a conj'i,dential assistant. 
Oj course., as preui,ously reported, IRS has establ -tshed 
a J"ai,lure to j'i,la crim,i,nal violation on GoJ...dj'in,e J'or -the years 
1955, 1956, an.d 1957. However, since this i,s a mi,sdemeanor, 
Justice had woited until the tax j'raud investigation was developed 
i,n order to go ahead wi,th its prosecution,. The one weakness in 
the tax fraud case is proving knowledge and culpability direc·t;ly 
to Go-/Jdj'ine. IRS /eels that he will argue that his ta:= a.Jj'airs 
·were handled by a ·competent tax· j'irm and he had every right to 
J·eel that hi,a ta.--c ajj•ai,rs were being ha.n.dlect within _the law. 
In addition to the tax fraud inuestigation.J. the Inspection 
Servi,ce oJ IRS looked into -the Oolclj'ine natter to determine the 
extent of afiy trre~ularities or misconduct on the part of Revenue 
employeee • . The investigcr,·tion hes not develo;Jed any cr·i,mi,nal 
violations•on the part of' IRS employees. The repor·t; ·does rej'lect 
gross admi?1.i.stratiue j'ailures and irregularities in the hc.ndl ing 
of work in the Boston Regi,on. Much oj' this was due to the j'act 
that; Goldj'ine assigned all oj' his taz matters in the New England 
area to Lawrence P. Harrington, a j'ormer IRS eniployee. Harrington 
~··: 
_; 
~ '· ·,•'.. ,/' 
l,,.,· ·•-.... ,,.~~ 
t I 
