13-00000 
..... 
. SECRET/SENSITIVE 5 ', 
• •. I 
I 
13. The principal speaker was SHELEPIN who was supported by. 
General GRIBANOV of the Second Chief ·Directorate as well as many 
other senior officials of the Government and Services. SHELEPIN 
gave a broa.d analysis of the world situation stressing that the 
USSR and the USA had reached an atomic stalemate.· Accepting this 
to be a fact, he stated that al 1 plans for war such as stay- • • 
behind net-workers should be abandoned .. He outlined programs and 
reforms for the Intelligence Services which were acc;omplished 
under LENIN and w_hich required the intelligence potential to be 
in harness with all other departments of the Government. He 
stressed that each intelligence operation should be designed to 
help achieve broad political objectives. Not:ing that the letter 
• 11P11 (Politika) had· been obliterated from OGPU by STALIN, 
SHELEPIN announced the creation of the Department of Disinformation 
within the KGB but subject to the control and direction of the 
Cent ra 1 . Cammi _ttee. The Department' s task was to use al 1 organs 
of Government to implement strategic disinformation in accordance 
with directives. This was meant to include all channels to the 
West; namely, diplomati-c, press, military, cultural and economic. 
This was in addition to the use of double agents and provocateurs. 
14. In discussing the various objectives, SHELEPIN expounded. 
on the wisdom of pursuing peaceful coexistence in the (Jeveloped • 
countries and wars of national 1 iberation in the underdeveloped 
countries, noting that these courses of action were not contra­
dictory. 
15. Shortly thereafter, the Central Committee charged the 
KGB with the recruibnent of two thousand additional S&T staff 
officers in order to exploit on a broad basis the opening to the 
West. The purpose for this increase was to gain Western technology 
as well as to effect the recruitment of agents and.agents of· in­
fluence in the Western scientific world. It should be noted that 
one of the more efficient and productive elements of the KGB and 
GRU had always been their successful acquisition of scientific 
secrets and R&D from the West. SHELEPIN noted that the change 
of balance of military power. could only be achieved through this 
additional strength of acquiring the technological and strategic 
secrets of the West. This would also strike at the USA and hasten 
its i sol at ion. 
16. According to the Source, he learned fn 1961 that the KGB 
had acquired approximately one thousand new staff officers for 
S&T in accordance with the Central Committee directive and that 
about one thousand slots remained to be filled. In 1961 he and 
some six hundred KGB officers attended an important lecture given 
by a senior general of the Defense Ministry. The lecture was to 
outline the S&T tasks which the KGB would be expected to undertake~ 
SE.CRET /SENSITIVE 
