13-00000 
PAGE 22 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
historian in residence at the American University and is seated in the row 
directly behind me. Dr. David Marwell, the executive director of the review 
board, is also here, as are a number of staff members who are very professional 
and very dedicated and have done their work for us very well. 
The review board, Mr. Chairman, began releasing records in July of 1995, 
pursuant to the act passed by Congress. And thus far, the board has acted 
specifically to transfer more than 14,000 documents to the JFK collection at the 
National Archives. That collection, as Mr. Tilley will tell the subcommittee 
shortly, now con~ins more than 3.7 million pages' worth of material. 
I'd like to show one brief and rather dramatic example of the work that the 
review board is doing. Congressman Stokes mentioned this issue in his 
testimony. This involves one particular record. This is the ''before" version, 
the record that was available to the public up until several years ago. You· 
probably cannot see it from here, but it is a document that was sent from the 
FBI's representative in Paris to Director Hoover on October 12, 1960. That is 
indicated at the top of the memorandum. The subject, as indicated, is Lee 
Harvey Oswald: Internal Security. And then it says Re: Paris Letter 9-27- 60. 
And the remainder of the entire document is blacked out. And not surprisingly, 
a document like this dated three years prior to the assassination of President 
Kennedy, a document sent to J. Edgar Hoover attracted a great deal of interest 
among researchers who saw it because everything was blacked out underneath. The 
speculation that individuals had about this was great. 
Well, the board aggressively pursued the release of this information, initially 
ordering its release. The FBI appealed that decision to the president. 
Subsequently we worked out with them, including an aggressive effort to contact 
Swiss authorities who were the subject of this particular document. I met 
personally with the Swiss ambassador to the United States to ask for his 
assistance in obtaining Swiss approval to release it. 
And here is the record that is now released to the American public at the 
National Archives. All of the material is released. And what it indicates was 
the FBI was interested in whether Oswald was indeed attending a college in 
Switzerland during that period of time. And the document tells about the 
investigation that Swiss authorities did to determine whether Oswald was, 
indeed, enrolled. He was someone who the FBI was following because of his 
interest in defecting to the Soviet Union. That's a good example of the type of 
work that the review board is doing: pursuing individual releases of information 
that has long been redacted from the public. 
The board has worked closely with federal agencies. The vast majority of the 
records are at the CIA and the FBI. We have completed the review of the core 
collections in both of those agencies and significant numbers of materials have 
