13-00000 
... •• ..... --_.-, 
;,~~ .... :.., .. __ 
-
Persons who are suspect or may be considered dangerous are immediately 
rounded up and detained whil'e the individual is ln the country. The authorities 
have no problem because in those countries there is no_t a free society such as we 
enjoy, and the people who are detained have no redress. The FBI approaches 
this whole field of security-I am not boring you with this, am I? 
The CHAIRMAN. No, indeed. This is trem'endously important. 
Mr. BELMONT. The FBI approaches this whole field of security and its tre­
mendous responsibilities to protect the internal security of the country as a 
sacred trust. In carrying out our investigations and our work in the _security 
field, we do it in such a manner under the law that we strengthen rather than 
weaken the free society that we enjoy. It is for that reason that our men are 
trained carefully, thoroughly, and supervised carefully, to insure that their 
approach to the entire security field, which inevitably touches on control of 
thought, is handled· with extreme care. Our activiti'es are directed to meet the 
terrific responsibility we have for the internal security of the country, but to 
meet it under the law. We feel that to place security as such above the rights 
of the individual or to increase these controls beyond what is absolutely essential 
is the first step toward the destruction of this fre'e society that we enjoy. 
We have been asked many times why we don't piek up and jail all Commu­
nists. The very people who ask those questions don't realize that if action, 
unrestrained action, ls taken against a particular group of people, a precedent 
is set which can be seized on ln the future by power-hungry or unscrupulous 
authorities as a precedent, and which inevitably will gnaw away at this iree 
society we have, and sooner or later will be applied to the· very individuals who 
are seeking this action. Up until the time of the assassination we religiously 
and carefully and expeditiousliy furnished . to Secret Service immediately on a 
local basis as well as on a national basis, headquarters basis, any and all infor­
mation that in any way was indicated to be a possible threat against the 
President - This permitted Secret Service to take such action as was required 
against these individuals who had by their action set the stage for appropriate 
restraint or observation based on something they did. Therefore, they were not 
In a position to complain. legitimately because they had by some word or deed 
set ln motion a threat against the President of the United States. Since the 
assassf.nation, as I have testified, we have- broadened the area of dlsseminatiori 
in an effort to be helpful: It stands without question that we could have said, 
"No; we won't go any further." But we felt that lt was our responsibility to do 
whatever we could do and, hence, we have broadened these criteria, and we have 
distributed thousands of pieces of information on individuals to Secret Service. 
(At this point ln ·the proceedings, Representative Ford enters the hearing 
room.) 
We are not entirely comfortable about this, because under these broadened 
criteria after all we are furnishing names of people who have not made a threat 
against the President. people who have expressed beliefs, who have belonged or 
do belong to organizations which believe ln violent revolution or taking things 
into their own hands. Unless such information ls handled with judgment and 
care, it can be dangerous. 
For example, we know that in one city when the President recently visited, the 
police went to these peopl'e and told them, "You stay in the house while the 
President Is here or if you go out, we will go with you." We know that these 
people have threatened to consult attorneys, have threatened to inake a public 
issue of the ·matter on the theory that- this is restraint that is not justified as 
they have mad'e no threats against the Pr~ldent. Now, when you examine this 
a bit further, we give these nil.mes to Sec-ret Service. Secret Service must do 
something with those names, and Secret Ser-vJce solicits the assistance of the 
police, quite l){'operly. But I don't need, I think, to paint this picture any further, 
that when you get away from a specific act or deed of threats against the Pr'esl­
dent, and you go into the broader area of what, perhaps, a marl is thinking and, 
therefore, he may be a threat, and you take action against the man on the basis 
of that, there is a danger. • 
That is why, despite the fact that w'e have given this additional information 
and will continue to do so, we are uneasy. Again, if I may be permitted to 
continue, this is inherent in the entire approach of the FBI to the security field. 
19 
