NW 
Page 533 
Gary Steven Krist; Ruth Eisemann-Schier; Barbara Jane Mackle -
Victim Kidnaping lv.Iackle kidnaped from Atlanta, Georgia, motel 
12-17-68 and $500,000 ransom demand made. FBI investigation 
resulted in her safe return and Krist and Eisemann-Schier identified 
as kidnappers. Krist apprehended and all-out investigation continuing 
to locate Eisemann-Schier. Krist will be tried by state and next 
appearance in court scheduled for 2-28-69. 
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE OPERATIONS 
Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs (BNDD) Since the Bureau 
of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs (BNDD) was formed under the 
jurisdiction of the- Department, the "FBI has been conducting back­
ground investigations on its applicants and employees. This was 
done pursuant to Departmental Order #175-59, dated 4-1-59. 
However, the BNDD was discovered to be conducting some dupli-
- cate investigation -of their clerical applfcants. We objected to this 
wasted effort and expressed our views to the Department which 
countered with a proposal advanced by Associate BNDD Director 
Giordano, that we share parts of these investigations with them. 
By letter of 2- 6-69, in reply to this proposal, we informed the 
Department that no additional requests f 9r BNDD applicant investiga­
tions would be accepted, except those submitted under the 
provisions of the Federal Employee Security Program. 
Martin Edward Underwood Underwood, an employee of the 
Department of Commerce, who was detailed to the White House in 
1966 to serve as an advance man for former President Johnson, 
was removed from his office at the White House on 2- 6- 69 ,/ and the 
Department of Commerce has been instructed to inform him that 
his services are no longer required. Our investigation of Under,vood, 
which was furnished the Wnite House on 2-12- 69, disclose that he 
had severe drinking proble1n until at least 1964. 
' Virginia Stanfill Savell We conducted a discreet inquiry of Savell 
in September, 1966, at the request of former Senator Kuchel (R) 
of Calif@rnia, for ,vhom she then worked in his Los Angeles office. 
It had been alleged she was operating a bookie joint out of the 
Senato:t's office but our inquiry developed no infor1nation to sub­
stantiate this. Ho,vever, it was reported that she was an alcoholic. 
Current investigation revealed Savel attempted to co1nmit suicide 
in July, 1967, by overdose of sleeping pills. 
d 
• - ·-------. --- --- --
