13-0P000 
.. 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
CUBAN INTERNAL SITUATION - cont'd 
/In the Church's calendar, her feast is marked on 4 Decem­
ber.-Apart from her significance ~n the Christian ritual, 
Barbara figures prominently' in a neo-pagan cult known as 
the Santeria.. Devotees of Santeria regard themselves as 
Catholics and believe that the names of the Catholic saints 
are translations into Spanish of the Nigerian names of African 
gods. Catholicism is viewed as the Spanish tribal version of 
Santeria. The association between Catholicism and Santeria 
is based on a largely superficial similarity between Catholic 
saints and the pantheon of African spirit gods. Saint Barbara 
is thought to be Shango, the God of War.7 
According to one of these tales, a-woman dressed in 
martyr's red stopped a bus outside Guantanamo City on 25 No­
vember, stepped inside and berated the Castro regime. The 
woman is alleged to have said that the Cuban people could 
not live forever in such misery and to have predicted that 
Castro would be taken from them sometime between 4 and 7 De­
cember. A militiaman passenger told her that she would be 
arrested when the bus arrived in the city. When it had, she'd 
disappeared. Continuing on to Caimanera, the bus stopped in 
the town square with the same woman sitting on one of the 
seats inside the vehicle. The militia again was .summoned 
and again the woman was nowhere to be seen. 
On 26 November the same woman allegedly appeared outside 
a school in Caimanera and admonished several children not to 
thrown stones at·a nearby shack. The children fled into the 
school and the woman followed. Challenged by a teacher, the 
woman said she was Santa Barbara and vanished. The next day 
neither the teacher nor the children would return to the • 
school, thoug~ it subsequently has been reopened. (COMNAVBASE 
GTMO, 01731/Tl/JFK/3, 4 December, CONFIDENTIAL) 
Fidel Castro was "frightened, .if not terrified," by the 
possi~~ consequences of Presid~nt Kennedy's mur}ler, according) 
to thiP~ortugtielie· ambassado~ in{!JavanJUIO Cabling \gis government 2 '-f 
on 27 November,- the ~ortugu'ese diplomat}d._escribed what he called 
"a large movement of troops" late on the"91.fternoon of the Presi­
dent's death--"they were sent to take up positions around 
Havana and t_he northern coast of the island." He found it sur­
prising that Castro "jumped into the arena to denounce insinu­
ations which were merely from news and nongov~rnmental agencies" 
but added that "it is the general op-inion infdfplomat~c circles) 2.~ 
that the assassination will be the spring whil::h will unleash 
passions and violent and blind hysteria of the American people 
against Cub.a and Russia and provide the excuse which up to now 
was lacking .... There is talk again about the coincidence of 
rumors concerning a crisis at the end of the year .... " Finally, 
the '°mbassado~ rioted that "the assassination did not cause a 
great- deal 6f~consternat~n J,n counterrevolutionary circles in 
the interior~u (NSA, 3/0 PODJT1463-63, 5 December, TOP SECRET 
DINAR) Q ~ 
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
