-4-
with the columnist, Margurite Higgins, in which Diem asserted 
that his policy toward the Buddhists had always been conciliatory 
and'" asked for harmony and support of the government. 
Shortly after midnight on August 21, 1963, ~hu ordered forces 
loyal to him to attack pagodas throughout Vietnam, arresting monk~ 
and sacl~ing the sacred buildings. Ov~r thirty monks were injured 
and 1,400 arrested. The American Embassy was taken by surprise 
and viewed the attacl:s as a shattering repudiation of Diem's • * 
promises to ~oltin~- • (Pentagon Papers, p.210) 
On August 24, 1963, the State Department sent a cible 
(Deptel 2'13) to the new ambassador in Vietnam, Henry Ca.bot Lodge. 
The tele<jra:-,1 \l.:lS prepared by Roger IIilsman, Assistant Secretary 
of S~atc for Far Eastern Affairs, and Under Secret~ry of State 
Averell l~arriman, and was ar;proved by Pres.ident ~~ennedy. (Pentagon 
Papers, p.235) Deptel 243 told Lodge to press Diem to take 
"prompt dramatic actions·' to redress the grievances of the 
Buddhists. 
. -- ·- --
"We must at same time also tell key milita.ry leaders 
that US would find it irapossible to continue support 
GVl~ (Vietnamese Government) militarily and economically 
ui-iless above steps ar/3 taken irru1~ediately which v-1c 
reco9nize requires removal of the i'Jhu's from the scene. 
We wish give Die□ reasonable opportunity to remove Nhu's 
but if he remains obdurate, ~hen we are prepared to accept 
the obvious implication that we can no longer support 
Diem. You may also tell appropriate rnili tary cornmanders 
we will give them direct support in any interim period 
of breakdown central gov~rnment mechanism . Con-
currently with above, Ambassador and country teams should 
urgently examine all possible alternative leadership and 
make detailed plans as to how we might bring Dicn1's 
reL-;lacernent if this should become necessary 
* Coi1ein te.stif icd ti1at the raids might have been timed to occur 
when no American Ambassador was in Vietnam (Nolting had left a few 
days before and his replace1;1ent, Lodge, had not yet arrived) (Conein, p. 21). • 
NW 50955 Docid:32423539 Page 495 
