13-00000 
government's investigation into that assassination, the more 
serious must be the need to continue to withhold the 
information for classification to be maintained. 
b. HR 70-14.e(2) states the reviewers of information 
advocating continued classification of infonnation will bear 
the burden identifying any damage that disclosure could 
reasonably be expected to cause to the national security. 
The Act defines that burden as one of 11clear and convincing 
evidence. 11 Further, the Act changes 11reasonably could be 
expected to cause 11 .to 11demonstrably. 11 Therefore, unless a 
showing is made by clear and convincing evidence that 
release of the information would demonstrably impair the 
national security, the information must be declassified. 
c. HR 70-14.e(4) addresses the standards for 
maintaining the classification of foreign government 
information, the identity of a foreign source, and 
intelligence sources and methods. It notes that Executive 
Order 12,356 presumes that this information is classified. 
Under the Act, with respect to these categories of 
classified information found with records related to the 
assassination of President Kennedy, you must still find 
demonstrable damage by clear and convincing evidence 
regardless of the presumption in the Executive Order. 
Further, with respect to intelligence sources and methods, 
the Act requires that they--
(1) be either currently utilized or reasonably 
expected to be utilized by the U.S. Government; and 
(2) that they not have been officially disclosed; 
and 
(3) that their disclosure would interfere with the 
conduct of intelligence activities. 
All of these factors must be met by a showing Df clear and 
convincing evidence. 
d. HR 70-14.e(4) also discusses CIA personnel and 
organizational information. The Act only permits the 
continued withholding of the identity of an "intelligence 
agent 11 if, by clear and convincing evidence, it can be shown 
the person's identity requires protection. Further, the Act 
does not permit the withholding of organizational 
information unless, by clear and convincing evidence, it can 
be shown the disclosure of the organizational data would 
demonstrably impair the national security. 
e. HR 70-14.e(7) states that the HRG will determine 
whether information warrants continued protection pursuant 
to statutory or other requirements. The Act supersedes all 
other statutory authority for withholding information except 
3 
