( 
2. 
3. 
[ 
( 
4. 
L. S.A.C 
lo 
2. 
3. 
• 
PART II 6K - L 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Included in the index may be individuals in- Government, business, or 
industry. Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of informationo Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. • 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. An index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space whic4 
can·be securely locked :and having locked cabinets in which records c~n 
be kept. Source· of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a locked, steel file cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in.the field office. The cards shall pertain only topthe 
territory covered; under such circumstances there shali be~no.·:.d.uplicate 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obso--i'ete. 
• • • ,1_,t .'• 
Index sources of information in the general office in-a"ex:;· ·do "-not· r'emove 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted. fr~m ,)J~~- ~-pecial 
source of inf6rmation index. , i~ 0•: /_J 
Files --~~ 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparai_;_ion ot/..!3o:urces • 
of informationo • • • ·••. • •: • 
Security and racial sources of information -· .,<0 : .. -e··>.>~: ·· 
Every six months a letter of justification (FD-401) .. should:·b~. -~'.ubmitted 
to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security.ind racial 
sources of informati.on.. Follow instructions set out :i~. ;sect·i:&n[J.30H, ]i tern 
2b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions. If th~ i:l"ecur.tt,y;:·or racial 
source of information is not being paid on Bureau authorization and is 
being used regularly, the Agent handling the source of information must 
dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certifi­
cation as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters. 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such actions might be mis­
construed. 
CONTACTS 
SAC contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, can 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual an.d highly 
valuable assistance to the FBI upon the request of the SAC .• 
A complete file review must be made and an FD-9 submitted on each contact 
(file review on spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary unless 
special circumstances prevail). 
SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Requ·est this approval by 
letter to the Bureau captioned " _____ , SAC Contact." Mark the letter 
for the attention of the Crime Records Division. Use thP. following sub­
headings in the order given: 
a. Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact-can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Results of Identification Division check 
f. Derogatory information 
g. Recommendation of SAC 
Submit an original and two copies, but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication. If the SAC contact is 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to the field. If the contact is not approved, a letter is to be submitted 
to the field stating why the individual cannot be used as an SAC contact. 
7 
5-28-70 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 11!3 
