• 
Legal Counsel to Mr. J. B. Adams 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
• 
Mr. Sentinella at the conclusion of his testimony advised SA Daly, 
who was not present at the testimony, that the Committee adhered to the restrictions 
placed on his testimony by the Attorney General with one possible exception. They 
asked Mr. Sentinella if while he was working in Atlanta his squad investigated the 
"Klan" and "SNCC" (Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee). Sentinella 
advised he did not raise an objection to this question because he felt the deviation 
from the De1w-J'i1Eental restrictions was very slight, and our investigations of 
these matterWwell known. 
On the afternoon of 5-21-75 K. William O'Conner inquired of 
SA Daly how the interview went and he was generally advised of the facts surrounding 
the interview, including the fact that former SA Sentinella was not furnished a copy 
of the Rules until immediately preceding the interview. Mr. 0 'Conner inquired 
as to whether the Senator (1Senator Robert Morgan b1)-N. C. ]) remained during the 
taking of testimony from Mr. Sentinella, and he was advised that according to 
Sentinella, Senator Morgan departed approximately five minutes after placing 
Mr. Sentinella under oath. 
Mr. 0 rconner expressed his displeasure at the way the Committee 
operated and indicated he was going to discuss this matter with Deputy Attorney 
General Tyler. 
Subsequently, on 5-21-75 O'Conner indicated he had been in contact 
with James Wilderotter, assistant to the Counsel to the President, and Deputy 
Attorney General Tyler, and they want the Bureau to prepare a letter protesting 
the Committee's handling of the interview of Sentinella and of the fact that they 
violated Rules which were adopted by that Committee, specuically the Rules 
requiring Mr. Sentinella be furnished a copy of the Committee Rules 24 hours 
prior to giving testimony to the Committee, failure to be specific concerning the 
areas to be covered by Sentinella's testimony, the general manner in which the 
rights of Sentinella were explained to him, and the fact that Senator Morgan 
departed from the Committee session after giving the oath. 0 1Conner explained 
in this regard Deputy Attorney General Tyler feels that this is in contravention 
of the Rules of the Committee, and he questions whether an executive session of 
the Committee being held to hear such testimony can continue in the absence of a 
Senate Committee Member. He requested this letter be directed to Senator 
Church. He was advised that such a 1etter could only be prepared after approval 
had been obtained from proper Bureau authorities, and it was also pointed out 
to Mr. 0 'Conner that we had orally protested this matter to Mr. Elliff of the 
Committee .and Mr. Seidel , and he was apprised of Elliff' s statement that such 
mistakes would not be repeated in the future. It was pointed out to Mr. 0 'Conner 
- 3 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38296 Docld:329895'88 Page 72 
