13-00000 
·Gituation in priva-te with his superiors. But Bob and his cohorts at FI/D were / 
: ( one step ahead of Ambassador Meyer. · They had figured out a way to intercept •. 2-
(
.·'. 
I .,· . • : 
(.-
his cables and the replies he received from Washington. So shortly after each 
State message was sent, Bob would appear in the CIA executive suite with a copy 
of the message for the personal inspection of the Director. Written on top of 
each mntercepted cable was a warning that the contents of the cable should be 
kept especially confident because State was unaware that the CIA had a copy. 
Despite Agency knowledge of all_ of Meyer's instructions and infonnatio~,] 
Meyer and State's director of Iranian Affairs in Washington refused to yield 
to Agency pressure for a quick settlement. Even-after these two men met at 
CIA headquarters with the Deputy Director of CIA, Vice Admiral Rufus Taylor, 
they still insisted that the Agency's plans for the new installation were· -
unacceptable to the U.S. government as a whole. CIA Director Helms was so 
aggravated by··this continued resistance thab he personally telephoned Secretary 
of State Rusk to settle the matter. Rusk promptly ended the dispute by agreeing 
completely to the CIA position. 
5 
, 
J (, 
I 
I 
' I 
Bob was also involved in another series of events which started when FI/0 • ·e:,ol>1 
<};/1 
w9rked out a liaison arrangement with the codebreaking service of ·a certain 
South American government. This arrangement ~@s ostensibly for the purpose of 
allowing the CIA and the other country to cooperate in decoding messages sent 
by third countries. However, FI/D tood advantage of the liaison to intercppt 
the secret coii-munications of the host South American government. Such arrangements 
were nonnal procedure to Bob. The intensely dedicated law and order advocate ·saw 
. nothing wrong in practicing this sort of duplicity on an allied government which 
cooperated in good faith. 
FILD's liaison with the South American country continued for a long period 
of time until relations between the United States and that nation soured over 
unrelated issues, and as a result FI/D was forced to break.off the relationship. 
However, FI/D did not give up hope that the previous working arrangements could 
~- ~.7 
