' • 
• 
BOMBING DEATH OF 
WHARLEST JACKSON 
AT NATCHEZ·, MISSISSIPPI 
ON FEBRUARY 27, 1967 
CIVIL RIGHTS 
BOMBING MATTERS 
'< •. , .... A full in~estigation is being conducted at the Depart-. 
ment's request concerning the death of Wharlest Ja·ckson at Natchez, 
Mississippi, as a result of a bomb exploding in his pickup truck as 
he left work at the Armstrong Tire and Rubber Company in ~atchez 
shortly after 8 p. ma on February 27, 1967 ... 
Jackson had been employed by the Armstrong Company 
since June, 1955. On February 20, 1967, he began training for a new 
job as a cement mixer, a type of position previously held only by white 
meno His particular job was a new position and ·was based on seniority. 
Jackson had held the position of treas 11rer in the National Association 
for the Advancement of Colored People in the Natchez branch and is 
survived by his wife and five children. George Metcalf, a Negro fello,v. 
employee, also active in the National Assocation for the Advancement 
of Colored People, ':\7ho previously customarily rode to work with 
Jackson, was ~eriously injured in a similar type explosion in 1965. 
• On the scene examination by Laboratory experts 
indicates that a high-order explosive was detonated under the cab 1x>rtion 
of Jackson's truck directly beneath the driver. Fragments of wire 
recovered at the scene appear to be wire from an electric blasting 
cap, indicating that such a cap_ may have been connected to and 
. activated by the electric wiring system of the truc!{o Portiorsof the 
wires to the brake light; tail light, and left rear turn indicator light, 
which were originally located on the inside of the +eft frame., are 
missing as a result of the explosion" No additional physical evidence 
has been disclosed to datea 
- Extensive investigation conducted under the on-the-scene 
supervisiou of Insp1~ctor Joseph A. s~1Ilivan indicates that a group known 
as the Silver Dollar group is responsible for the bombinge The Silver 
Dollar group is reportedly a secret group_ of Mississippi and Louisiana 
Kla_nsn1en founded in June, 19 65. One informant is presently a 1ne1nber 
of the group but to date has been unable to establish the identity of 
