13-00000 
vearing a ring?"' In fact. his yes to that 
accompanied by such stress as I had 
cinly or:ice or twice in the'class slides .. 
,. nei,.'t morning Kradz called on me. 
he suspect take the money, he asked. 
! I didn"t think so. Kradz nodded. Did 
lspect who took the money? Yes, I 
Iht he did. Very good, said Kradz. Did 
ce anything else about the interroga-
Well, yes, there was this business 
t the ring. Perhaps the suspect had 
1 it. Kradz smiled. No, the kid hadn't 
, the ring, but he was gay. He had 
mged rings with another guy. Nobody 
situation, I wondered If it could be used 
the way I had hoped, as a tool for historical 
research. 
During the lunch break I took Kradz aside 
and asked him. Could the PSE be used out­
side interrogations, where the speaker was 
telling what may nr ~y not have hap­
pened? Yes, he said, the PSE could be used 
for that. Where there was no stress, I could 
be confident that the speaker was telling 
the truth. However, when I did find stress, 
I had to be ver:y careful about reaching con­
clusions about its cause; it could result from 
something other than dec~pJion. ~ut if I 
. : 
details of the controversy dimmed In my 
mind, leaving only a dull residu&of doubL 
I had despaired of ever leaming the truth. • 
Now I knew what to do with the PSE. . 
It was all there: the statements made 
before television cameras by eyewitnesses. 
policemen, medical examiners, members 
of the Warren Commission. Somewhere In 
a network-television vault were the sound 
tracks, with the tiny, inaudible variations In 
voice frequency that could settle once and 
for all the question~ "Did Oswald, acting 
alone, shoot and kill John F. Kennedy?" 
My immediate problem was getting 
-· 
V •• • •• • .... 
···; - .. .-··: ,._ . ... . ·.:.: .. ·---~ ~-: . 
:.:· ·voiceprint~bythe = • • . ·._ -~_:/ <.<·." .. , 
• - • . Psychological Stress Evaluator - .. ·_: 
of former chief justice 
Earl Warren in May, 1972 .... 
Indicating hard stress on 
the words "no evidence." 
about it. The kid didn't really expect found a stress pattem In the testimony of 
asked about It, because t<radz had several witnesses to the same event, I would 
Jver all the questions with him. Still, very probably have uncovered deception. 
he ring was mentioned, he panicked. Encouraged, I reviewed the list of recent 
,e third day of the course, I had begun mysteries. Watergate was, of course, the 
:l some thought to what I might do first to come to mind. The ITT affair was 
1e PSE. I was particularly interested also of recent interest. The Kent State inci­
ract that the device·works from a tape dent had never been fully cleared up. But 
ing. Sound-recording technology is one subject seemed to loom above all the 
t a century old (Edison invented the rest-the assassination of John F. Kennedy. 
graph in 1877), and an enormous like many others, I have found it difficult 
1t of history is stored on phonograph to believe the Warren Report When Mark 
s, sound tracks, and tape and wire Lane's book came out, I read it carefully. 
ings. I thought how many press con- I read much of the other criticism of the 
es. interviews and public pronounce- Warren Commission's findings. The more 
are stored away in the film and tape I read, the more I doubted the official ac­
:!S of the world, and how many ques- count of what happened that day in Dallas. 
ould be settled if we knew for certain _ I waited for the real story to emerge. It didn't 
.. 
. ' 
access to the recordings. I was certain the 
television networks would have them, but 
I wasn't sure exactly what to ask for. There 
must be thousands of hours of sound 
recordings relating to the assassination. 
Where, among all this talk, was the critical 
testimony? 
I started digging and soon discovered 
the existence of a group called the National 
Committee to Investigate Assassinations, 
located in Washington, D.C. I called the 
number listed in the telephone directory 
and was soon speaking to Bob Smith, the 
Committee's Research Director. I told Smith 
that I was a writer and wanted to do a piece 
on the John F. Kennedy assassination~ I 
asked him for an interview, and he agreed. 
We met in the offices of Bemard Fenster-
I 
I I 
J 
I 
.. 
