13-00000 
... 
J 
,· .. 
CONFIDENT! AL 
(When Filled In) 
l 
SECRECY OATH 
I, John M. Whit ten , am about. to terminate my association 
with the Central Intelligence Agency. I realiz~- that, by virtue of my duties 
with that Agency, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which 
concerns the present and future security of the United States of America. I am 
aware that the unauthorized disclosure of such in.formation is prohibited by the 
Espionage Laws (18 USC secs. 793 and 794), and by the'National Security Act of 
1947 which specifically requires the protection of '-intelligence sources and 
methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I ·soLEMNLY SWEAR, WITHOUT 
MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS, AS FOL-
LOWS: -
1. I will never divulge, publish, or reveal cy wr.iting, word, conduct, er 
otherwise, any information relating to the national defense and security and 
particularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, meth­
ods and operations, and specifically Central Intelligence Agency operations, 
sources, methods, personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, in­
cluding but not limited to, any future governmental or private employer, private 
citizen, or other Government employee or official without the express written 
consent of the Director of Centr_a,l Intelligence or his authorized representative. 
2. I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims which I 
may pave against CIA or the United States Government which may in any way neces­
sitate the disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that 
any such claims_ will receive full legal consideration. In the event, however, 
that I am not satisfied with the decisions of CIA concerning any present or 
future claims I may submit, I will not take any other action to obtain satis­
faction without prior written notice to CIA, and then only in accordance with 
such legal and security advice as CIA will promptly furnish me. 
3. I do not have any documents or materials in my possession, classified 
or unclassified, which are the property of, or in custodial·responsibility of 
the Central Intelligence Agency, having come into my possession as a result of 
my duties with the Central Intelligence Agency, or otherwise. 
4. During my exit processing and during my period of employment with the 
Central Intelligence Agency I have been given a,n opportunity to report all in­
formation about the Agency, its personnel, and its operations which I consider 
should receive official cognizance. Hence, I am not aware of any information, 
which it is my duty in the national interest to disclose to the Central Intel­
ligence Agency, nor am I aware of any violations or breaches of security which 
I have not officially reported, except as set forth on the reverse-side of this 
sheet or on other attachments. 
FORM 
4- 62 305 
USE PREVIOUS 
EDITION. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
( I Z I 
