't-. -• :" .::::....~ 
! 
I 
tl07G 
• • N'w~l21 
SECTION 107. s•,~1 INFORMANTS(AND CONFIDENT. s;~RCES] 
(6) After informant authenticates his statement, oontaoting Agent 
should prepare a cov:er sheet, form FD-306, which should be stapled 
to it and thereafter the statement should be handled as a 
written one in accordance with instructions set out in ?, a,. 
(10)., and (11). 
(7) Oral information furnished by informant purely of lead value 
- should be incorporated in an office memorandum by the Agent 
• and should not be initialed by the informant or exhibited to 
him or treated as evidence. 
3. Transmission(of information] . 
a. Statements should be personally deli vel·ed to contacting Agent by 
informants wheneYer possible. Careful consideration should be 
given to full s~curity of all· such personal contacts. 
b. They should never be mail~d to field office or resident agency. 
c. If they cannot be obtained personally by contacting Agent, obtain 
confidential post office boxes for their receipt. 
a. Confidential post office boxes should be obtained under fictitious 
names and not under names of persons who may be listed in post office 
directory. • 
e. lfore than one informant may send statements to a specific post office 
box, but consideration should be given to obtaining post office boxes 
in different post office stations to prevent suspicion on part of 
post office employees. 
f. Envelope enclosing statement should have return address of another 
confidential post office box obtained und,er a fictitious name in the 
same manner as d. 
g. Statements should be collected at post office boxes regularly, 
but time of pickup should be varied. Work out system of rotation 
whereby same Agent or J,.gents will not appear at same post office box 
for any extended period of time. 
h. When informant receives information of vital and immediate interest 
to Bureau, ho should furnish it as promptly as possible to contacting 
Agent or office by most appropriate means of communication. Office 
should take any necessary action without delay. 
4. Handling of lead information 
a. All lead information obtained from informant must be run out to 
a logical conclusion. 
b. If there is only partial name of individual or meager desc:dpti ve 
data, and if there is sufficient data available to do so, file should 
·be opened and assigned to effect an identification and to take any 
necessary action. 
c. If there is insufficien·!; information to warrant opening case, 
a ticklHr card should be prepared to follow with ·!;he informant and 
take other J_ogical steps in an effort to obtain additional ic1entifying 
data concerning the individual. Tickler cards should be restricted 
to information which would warrant investigation if an identity is 
established. This will eliminate inconsequential items, but at the 
same time definite steps must be taken to run out affirmative informa­
tion. If no identification is made after reasonable effort, prepare 
memorandum for informant 1 s subfile. If an identification is me.de, 
a file should be opened and any necessary action taken in connection 
therewith. 
5. [Handling documentary)1mderial furnished[by informants] 
a. Pamphlets and similar docu.men·!;a.ry material furnished by informants 
should have placed ·!;hereon the informant I s code name or oode syinbol 
(not his true name or his permanent symbol number). 
b. Informant should affix da·!;e he recei Ycd the material. If informant 
oannot reoall date of receipt, the date he furnished material should 
be affixed. 
c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, 
permanen·!; symbol number of informani;, f:i_le numbers, indexing symbols, 
etc., should be placed on documentary mate1·ial by f,gents or clerical 
pei•s onnel. 
12 
,..,.~ ........ - 1-
) 
) 
