• SECRET/SU~SITIVE - 8 -
Other Assistance 
Almost every police department has agreed to immediately notify the CIA if 
one of its agents is arrested. 
Assistance Rendered to Local Police by the CIA 
Training Progra:ns: 
In late 1971 a course in photography was offered to officers of local police 
departments by the Washington Field Office, and in 1972 courses in both sur­
veillance techniques and photography were offered. Representatives from 1,iPD 
and most large suburb:m police departments attended. These courses ,,:ere 
stopped after the pri 11ting of a New York Times article criticizing the train­
ing of Nc-w York City police by the CL\. 
Metropolitan Police Department: 
1. May Day - 1971: MPD Has furnished six cars equipped with communications 
gear, plus two men for each car,from the Washington Field Office (WFO). 
WFO also furnish..:::d a central communications c~wJ113:nd post plus operators. 
The purpose of tr-is assistance was to permit the monitoring of crowds. 
2. In about 19 72, B:::-ewer performed a telephone t2.p for MPD in connection 
with an internal affairs matter 1·:herc eleven 1·olice officers 1vere poten­
tially involved ~n a bribe. Brc1·:cr umkrstocd that a court order was 
obtained before t.he taps 1,ere put on. of MPD made 
this request and CIA HeadquaTters 
3. During 1969 demrmstrations, f i'-iPD asked Bre;·,'er 
if he could 1vire a lamp in the apan:mcnt of a ,,:itting police informant 
who had penetrat,;;d anti-war dissident groups. Brewer passed this re-, 
quest on to secu~ity headquarters, and the Technical Services Division 
performed the wi~ing. CIA did not monitor or receive copies of any con­
versations recorded. 
4. : Shortly after a CIA surveillance training course 1·:hich several f,IPD 
• officers attended, NPD became desirous of maintaining surveillance on 
'one of its unwitting police informants to· see if she was doing 1-:h:1t the 
police paid her to do. i~o asked Brc~er if his men would assist the ne~ 
trainees in the project. Brewer's surveillance unit did furnish assist­
ance, including four cars and at least one man for each car. These CIA 
agents, together with MPD officers, surveillecl the subject for one and one­
half clays. This is the only time Bre•,,er' s surveillance team actually 
provided manpower to assist MPD in a surveiliance. 
S ECRET/SE:,.;SITIVE 
NW 50955 Docld:32203834 Page 13 
