107N 
[ 
.[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
t 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
NW38321 
SEC'I•.[ON 107. ~JRITY IlTFOR1'1AN'rS .1\Jrn CONFIDEN"~. SOURCES 
4. ]'our-month eY·aluation of informants not paid on Bureau authority 
If the informant is not being paid on Bureau au·~horization, a oornrnuni­
oation must be transmitted to the Bureau every four months after the 
date of designation containing the same information set out above in 
subsection 3b except those i"l;ems concerning payments. Recommendation 
• of S.AC rt'lgarding continuance of informant should al so be set .forth UACB·. 
In espionage and foreign nationality cases· comment is necessary regarding 
only those applicable items in subsection 3b, 
5. Receipts 
When payments are made to anyone for information or assistance on s.ecurity 
matters, either on the SACls authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obtained in ev-ery instance in which it is possible to do so. If a 
recE:ipt cannot be obtained for a particular payment, complete circumstances 
should be set forth on the blue slip at the time reimbursement is claimed. 
a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce the receipts in evidence 
during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate to o·l;her 
documents or files. • 
b, Receipts should clearly show: 
1
1) Date on which payment was made 
2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis 
3) Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for services 
or expenses where these items are pertinent 
(4) Name of Agent making payment 
(5) Signature of person receiving the money 
c. Receipts are not to be witnessed by another Agent. 
d. If necessary to make corrections on the receipts, such corrections 
must be initialed by the informant and not by ·che Agent. 
e. When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to the 
Bureau, they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, ·1eaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contact with the Acoo fastener punch, The staples should be 
placed in suoh a manner that the date or other data appearing on the 
receipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Care must 
be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clearly show 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary material 
contained in Bufiles. 
6. Income tax returns 
a. Informants who receive compensation for their services to the Bureau 
should be advised that such compensation inust be reported as income 
when filing an income tax return. • 
('b,) Bureau income should be set forth under item 5 on· page one· of the 
Federal income tax return, form 1046, and explained un4er part V,[3,J 
schedule B, of the return as income received from other sources for 
personal services rendered through a private enterprise or similar 
general term applicable to informant's position and station in life. 
[c. If the informant is self-employed and files a schedule C ·as a self­
employed individual, it may be possible to include his Bureau income 
with his self-employed income from other sources without revealing 
connection with the Bureau, 
d, Effective 1-1-6.5, in those instances in which the informant cannot 
report payments received from the Bureau for services without jeop­
ardizing his security as an informant, such payments will be subject 
to a 20 per cent withholding tax. There are four categories of . 
circumstances in which taxes will not be withheld. Taxes a·re not ·:co 
be withheld from payments made (1) to other than security informants 
and sources, (2) for reimbursement of expenses, (3) under SAC -
authority, or (4) to informants who have been able to report Bureau 
income on their Federal tax returns without jeopardizing their security 
or without challenge from the Internal Revenue Service. Each office • 
has detailed instructions and exhibits concerning the procedure to 
be followed in the handling and control of money withheld.] 
Page 1585 
20 
9-18-6.4 
( 
