13-00000 
~412~/97 WED 15:54 FAX 202 724 0457 
--·--------- -· 
-2-
Review Board,.the ARAB staff, the CIA, and the FBI to complete the significant amount 
. of work that remains: and finally, to provide reasonably consistent standards for the 
review of postponements that would apply equally to CIA and FBI records. ' 
The following are, in summary form, guidelines for reviewing postponements In the 
Segregated Collectlons.2 • • • 
. 
CIA Source and FBI Informant and National Security Asset Postponements 
. . . • 
. . .- ;...,_-· ,,.,. 
There are, of course, similarities.and differences between·FBI lnf9.rrnants and Cl~ . 
sources; Like FBI informants and national security assets, CIA sources may or may-;not 
be paid for the-information that they provide and they may or may not be providers of 
information over the long-term. When providing Information to the Bureau, FBI 
informants generally are understood to be cooperating with law enforcement officials for • 
a legal and legitimate purpose. It is often the case, althougt:a not always, that FBI 
informants understand that at some point their name· might surface in conjunction with a 
criminal prosecution and that they may need t9 testify in court. Foreign CIA sources • 
and FBI national security assets, however, are not necessarily deemed to be 
cooperating with law enforcement officials but may, in fact, be committing the crime of 
espionage. against their native country by cooperating with US authorities. Furthermore, 
unlike FBI informants, CIA sources and FBI national security assets p~ume that their 
names wlll not be released publicly and they certainly presume (in the ordinary course) 
that their Identities will not surtace in criminal trials. As a practical matter, it is generally 
much easier today for the FBI to locate a former informaot who resides in the United 
States than it Is for the CIA and FBI to locate former sources and national security 
assets. 
Despite these differences - differences which would generally suggest a greater 
degree of protection being owed to CIA sources and FBI national security assets - the 
issues in terms of postponements are fundamentally similar .. 
2The existing "NBR• guidelines allow the Review Board to remove from detailed 
consideration those records or files that truly have no apparent relevance to the 
assassination. Nevertheless, a significant number of files In the Segregated Collections 
contain records that shed some light on issues ~at the HSCA explored as potentially 
relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy. • The following criteria would apply 
to all records In the Segregated Collections, including records containing some NBR 
redactions. • 
~ 003 
