13-00000 
PAGE 3 
Chicago Tribune, October 3, 1993 
What's especially galling, Posner said, is that Stone based his movie an the 
investigation of former New Orleans District Atty. Jim Garrison, including his 
prosecution of businessman Clay Shaw as an alleged conspirator. 
11Garrison 1 s prosecution of Clay Shaw was disgraceful, criminal and has been 
thoroughly discredited. There was coercion of witnesses and changing of 
testimony, 11 Posner said. 11The jury took only 45 minutes to find Shaw not guilty, 
and one of the jurors said it would have been 20 minutes but that several jurors 
had ta go to the bathroom." • 
Stone has said 11JFK11 was a 11caunter-myth 11 ta the 11myth11 of the Warren 
Commission. 
The no-longer magic bullet 
Among the doctrines of conspiracy 11 terature bolstered by "JFK, 11 Posner 
noted, is that the so-called magic bullet found on Texas Gov. John Connally's 
stretcher at Parkland Hospital was almost pr'istine, couldn't.have struck Kennedy 
and Connally, as the warren Commission said it did, without zigzagging in 
•idair, and was probably plant~d. 
"If ballistics tests didn't prove conclusively the bullet struck Kennedy.and 
Connally, which they do, use your common sense," Posner said.· "At the time the· 
bullet was found, the conspirators wouldn I t know if the bullets fired at 
Connally and Kennedy were still lodged in their bodies or had been recovered. 
"If they wanted to shield the conspiracy, there can only be three shots. 
More than that, and the single assassin doesn't have time ta shoot. So why risk 
exposing the conspiracy by planting a fourth bullet that wouldn't match 
ballistically with remnants of the other rounds?" 
And what about Jack Ruby, the Chicago native who moved to Dallas to run strip 
clubs? Did he just happen by the Dallas jail on Nov. 24 and shoot Oswald an the 
spur of the moment? 
"Ruby I s murder of Oswald does more ta undermine this case in terms of getting 
the truth out than anything. else, 11 Posner said. "First, it prevents the trial of 
Oswald, where the evidence would liave convicted him. It also gives us a second 
assassin, with ties ta organized crime. It• s hard for people to believe this was 
a coincidence, so you're off and running with a conspiracy." 
Posner's account of Ruby's life and his actions during the assassination week 
demolishes any notion he was a conspirator. 
According ta the trade journal Publishers Weekly, six books by. major 
publishers will appear this fall ta coincide with the 30th anniversary of the 
assassination, with 11Case Closed" standing alone in its anti-conspiracy stance. 
Posner has been heartened by pram is ing sales and pas i ti ve reviews. "Many 
readers are put off by conspiracy books that select only material that's 
favorable to their position, whether it checks out or not. I think these people 
are buying the book." 
Thumbs up from the critics 
iervices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
