t• 
r 
1 !· 
I 
'!. 
I t 
I l 
l 
I I 
l J 1, 
' 
'"' .. 
( 
[ 
( 
8. 
SECTIO:H lO. SECURITY INFORt'uU;'i.'S AND GO.I-TF-fTI.AL SOURCES • 
Correct, full name 
All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
First date of contact by your office 
1071-M 
If first contact was prior to Septe~ber, 1944, names of all 
S.As, SAGs, and AS.A.Cs who contacted and may have made payments 
(5) Tabulation of all payments, broken down as to services and 
expenses. Although tabulations are not furnished to Depart­
ment, those prepared by your office will be reconciled with 
Bureau records. 
(6) Listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
advances 
{7
8
) Date of last contact by your office 
( ) Whether individual has been contacted by any other office 
b. Each individual and each item of information must be acc()unted for. 
If no contact was made with particular indi_vidual, Bure·au must be 
so advised. 
c. Where informant has previ~usly been used and tabulation of payments 
was prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be giv:en orily 
from date of last trial in which individual was used. 
d. Above inforw.ation should be submitted separate and a·part from cor­
respondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be ad­
dressed to attention of[Data Processing]Section, Computer Systems 
Divisiono Interdivisional correspondence should be addressed to 
Bureau with copies designated for interested officeso 
Receipt of unemployment compensation 
a. At times informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
and become eligible for unemployment compensation. Where un­
employment regulations require listing of all sources of income as 
prerequisite for unemployment compensation and informants and/or 
sources who are being paid by Bureau fail to comply~ situation is· 
potentially embarrassing. Bureau cannot be placed in position of 
condoning violation of state la;1 on part o:f any informant, or source. 
Field office must determine from sta·te unemployment compensation 
officials effect of unemployment compensation laws on. paid informants 
and/or sources. Depending on local requirements, informants and 
sources must be alerted accordingly. 
b. When paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has ·knowledge 
of impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and submit 
recowJnendations to Bureau on UAGB basis. At same time, weigh seriously 
possible need for informant to apply and accept unemployment compen­
sation to protect his security. Fellow members of subversive organi- • 
zation w2y be aware of his unemployment status and would expect him 
to apply, Where state requires 11;otification of Bureau payments i;o "in­
formants that would necessitate disclosure of identity, discontinue 
Bureau payments during period of unemployment compensation benefits. 
M. MONTHLY A~""D QUARTERLY LETTERS 
1. Submit monthly letter (FD-451, 451a) to Bureau by secure teletype system 
(NITEL}. Field divisions east o:f the Mississippi must subm:i,t this infor­
mation by the 3rd of each month; field divisions west of the ~lississippi 
must submit this information by the 7th of each month. Monthly letter 
should include the following: 
a. 1'Tumber of security informants, potential security informants, con­
fidential sources, and panel sources at the beginning and end. of each 
·month also showing the number added and deleted during the month. 
b. Number of .A.gents assig:q.ed exclusively to informant and source 
development. 
c. Money paid for services and expenses under SAC authority. 
d. Statistical accomplishments. 
e, Security informant accomplishments. 
:1 17 
·10-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1734 
