13-00000 
. . 
SECRET 
Attachment C 
Friday, October 29, 1999 
Foreign Government Information Contained in JFK Collection 
CIA's JFK Collection includes Foreign Government Information (FGI) in a number of forms: 
First, some CIA documents in the collection contained FGI but, by general agreement with the 
Assassination Records Review Board, the source could be protected by redaction even when CIA and 
the Board agreed that substantive information could be released. 
Second, documents were provided by foreign governments in the aftermath of the assassination in response 
to requests from the US Government for information about the assassination or individuals whose 
names may have been associated with it. Such documents subsequently became a part ofCIA's 
"sequestered collection" and thus were automatically designated by the JFK Board as "Assassination 
Records," subject to declassification review. A number 6f such documents were released in full in the 
early years of the project (1992-1994), with the concurrence of the DO/IRO, but OIM has no 
documentation regarding coordination with liaison. 
Third, in a number of documented cases, the DO consulted with liaison services regarding documents that 
were clearly identifiable as from a liaison service, and handling of both the substance and the sources 
was discussed with the liaison services and their views obtained. In all such documented cases, the 
BOARD agreed to protect the foreign government source and, as appropriate, to postpone the release 
of redacted portions or entire documents until the year 2017, reflecting the language of the JFK Act. 
The information below reflects those instances of coordination with liaison services that are 
reflected in OIM records: 
~---------------,Australian 
I. (S) A 1968 letter from Charles C. F. Spry, on Australian Security Intelligence Organisation 
letterhead, to DCI Richard Helms objected to the proposed release of a Warren Commission document in 
which reference is made to the 'Australian security service.' [The Warren Commission document (CD #97) 
was a memorandum to Mr. J. Lee Rankin from DDP Helms dated 22 May 1964 reporting an anonymous 
caller -- who described himself as a Polish chauffeur for the Soviet Embassy in Canberra -- to the US 
Embassy there. That memo was sanitized to delete the 'Australian security service.'] The Board did not 
accept the Agency's initial action to "deny in full" Sir Spry's letter and the Board's acceptance of 
substitute text provided only additional time to pursue the possibility of full release. Consultations between 
and among EA/PAMSI, OGC, and others and queries to the Australian desk, and, in turn, the Station and 
the Australian Government brought an acceptable compromise. ASIO authorized the release of a redacted 
and retyped version of Sir Spry's letter that did not reveal Sir Spry as the writer and that did not reveal an 
ASIO/CIA relationship, and ASIO further stated "this ... should not be seen as setting any precedent in 
releasing ASIO documents." The Board postponed release of the original until 2017. 
2. (S) Helms' response to Sir Spry and two related CIA documents were released in sanitized 
form that protected the liaison relationship. The release of the redacted portions are postponed until 2017. 
3. (S) Cables exchanged between Headquarters and Canberra over the issu_eJn-Itern+were 
·--------
' _d_e_~rds,_b_ut_release-of-tnecables was postponed until 2017. 
---~-----------.s:.FT RE 'f-
LIA 2-82 
X5 
1.5d 
) 
I 
