- 61 -
(2) How many proprietaries have been sold) or their assets 
sold, to persons, or a group including persons, who 
had previously served as directors, officers or 
employees of· the proprietaries? 
(3) In how many instances were proprietaries sold pursuant 
to a written agreement, or an unwritten agreement or 
understanding, that the purchased proprietary, any 
successor entity or the parties purchasing the proprie­
tary's assets would provide the Agency with goods, 
services or other assistance? In each case, indicate 
the nature of the business involved, whether the agree­
ment was written or, if unwritten, the way it is 
reflected in Agency files, and the amounts of any 
specific business volume, retainers or financial support 
agreed to in connection with the proprietary's transfer. 
This request covers both firm contracts for the provision 
of goods and services and general agreements that the 
parties acquiring the proprietary or its assets would 
provide them, at the Agency's option, if requested to do so. • 
(4) In how many instances did the parties acquiring the 
proprietary in fact subsequently provide goods, services 
or other assistaiici to the Agency, whether or not there 
was a written or informal agreement of such a relation­
ship at the time the proprietary or its assets were 
acquired from the Agency? Indicate for each instance 
the nature of the business, the dollar amounts of the 
transactions involved and the period of years during 
which they occurred. 
Our study revealed that during the indicated period 209 proprie­
taries were dissolved, sold or otherwise disposed of, thus substan­
tiating the Agency's claim that it had moved decisively to extricate 
itself from this area of activity.* But in a very real sense it is 
nearly impossible to evaluate whether a "link 11 still exists between 
the Agency and a former asset related to· a proprietary because 
* The Agency's Office of Finance originally compiled a list of 305 
cryptonyms of "entities" which were dropped from Office of Finance 
records at Headquarters during the period 1965-1975. Nineteen (19) 
other entities were added from other Agency divisions. Later this 
list was reconciled with other Agency records to eliminate cryptonym 
changes and other administrative actions not related to the actual 
disposal of a proprietary organization. Ultimately, these admini­
strative "eliminations" totaled 115. 
mr -~0955 Docid.: 32423532 Page 65 
