.. 
Volur:ie XII - Manuel Ray 
Page 2 
SECRET Betsy Palmer 
6. Cable to DIR f'rom JMWAVE, dtd 31 Jan 64 - Article in Miami Herlad about 
the discovery of' arms cache in Puerto Rico conf'irr:is accuracy of mtaup/2 
reporting that Ray involved in robbery U.S. Military installation and that 
Governor Marin is Disleading FBI investigation. WAVE believes the C-3 
explosive f'ound in cache was provided Ray by WAVE as directed by Hdqtrs, 
but WAVE did not provide any weapons. WAVE 'Will tell loe.al FBI that they 
know nothing regarding background o:f cache discovery and assume Hdqtrs 'Will 
coordinate case at Wash.D.C. level 'With FBI. 
7. Intelligence Inf'ormation Cable, dated 4 Feb. 1964 - reliable source 
sa:ys RAY expected in Caracas, Venezuela.middle of' February 1964 to establish 
a guerrilla training base :for JURE in venezuela. Will be a regional center 
used by JHRE members in Venezuela and Panama. (Likely that if Ray succeeds 
in setting up ca.!!Ip, it 'Will be 'With tacit consent of' Betancourt govermnent. 
Field Comment). Ray claims he 'Will be inside Cuba by 20 May 1964. 
8. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 9 Feb 1964 states JOSE MARIA PUENTE 
BLANCO, Pa.nama.nian/Cuban, DOB 17 July 1930, Havana, Cuba, kef't Panama City 
for Caracas on 8 Feb; He is possible Castro agent and Panama City would 
appreciate inf'orma.tion re his activities in Caracas and/or subsequent travel. 
9. Memo for the Record, dtd 12 Feb 1964 f'rom. Alfonso Rodriguez 
Subject: . Meeting with f,,,J,ffiPJfG/1 
ELC, according to Ray, was now disolved and became a part of JU?~ on 17 Jan. 
1964. This brings to JURE the best f'on1er rebel army officers in exile and 
should give JORE a mill tary background and support seco nd to none in the 
exile conn:nunity. 
Comments: AMTAUP /2 reports have indicated Cisneros activities a.'1d statements 
are directed against the CIA. Rodriguez discusses .runtaup/2 's reporting with 
Tony Sforza and Warren Frank. If' Cisneros is in fact directing a program 
of denigration against the CIA, suggest agency follow the activities of 
Dionisio SUarez Esq_ui val, who reportedly has been selected to ca.--ry out such 
a progra.ra. in various Latin ft~~erican univerities. 
10. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 22 Feb. 1964. T'r:e PUENT:S 3LAHCO 
brothers have been under sooe suspicion since their arrival in aACT following 
their release from Cuban prison as result of intervention of Thelma King. 
Part of suspicion j_s a result of activities of their brother, Jorge, still 
in Guba. 
SECRET 
