• SECRET 
Review of Files - Manuel Rey y Rivero 
c~a
7 
Do~~iunents --~ 
May2, 1978 
Betsy palmer 
1. Memo dated 24 Oct 1962 to Chief, Contact Di vision, from Chief, San 
Francisco Office 
Subject: Suitability of Manuel Ray and Miro Cardona for Important 
Roles in a Possible New Cuban Government 
Infp.rma.tion received from Dr. ®._~~rortfil Professor of Political Science _ 
c.,1 at~-~and long-time source of exceptional value. ~ 0~ 
visited in l..fiarni and contacted. about 25 former Castro supporters representing 
a broad political gamut. Dr. {!ortfilgot the impression from many of the 05 
Cubans that they suspected. Ray of being a "possible Communist sleeper". 
oS~reluctant to pass along this ini'OI'tlation, because accusations were 
very road. 
2. J:n:f.omation report dated 16 July 1962 and Earlier 
Source: Cuban National (Alien File #A-12570921) who asked for an 
interview on occasion of first contact with CIA. 
Cannot vouch for his bona fides. Had credential indicating membership in 
branch of revolutionary army's intelligence service, now in exile in U.S. 
and mainta.ing connections with colleagues in that country. 
A friend of his reports plans to assassinate top Castro leadership in Cuba. 
To be done by poison -- "Clostridium Botulinum" which is strong, odorless, 
and tasteless. Takes about 12 days to kill. About 5cc would do the job. 
h'ai ting for next visit of major delegation from a Communist country -­
dinner in honor of the occasion should bring together most of the important 
member---s-of the regime and that is when the attenpt will be made. 
2. Cable dated Oct. 3, 1961 - WA CITE NYOR 49()2 Support (Travis) info L/A 
3ranch .from Daniels. Source is Ernesto Dezaldo - Cuban laif\Jer now 
living in NeH York City. Stated the 1,IBP in Havana is far less radical than 
under the leadership of Ray, who has been completely discredited in recent 
months. Primary purpose today is (a) assassination of top leaders in Castro 
regime and (B) sabotage of important industrial and goverri~~ent installations 
in Havana. Strength of 1-IIr? in Havana estirna-ted. to exceed 1,000 -- su~cess 
weasU!'ed nore in terns of I~und raising ability and blowing up of buildings. 
3. Information dated June 4, 1961, Subject: Underground Student Lead.er 
Comments on Post-inYasion Cuba. Reporting officer taL~ed with 
ISIDRO BORJA, on the leaders of DRE. Borja says top D& nembers in jail 
or j_n 2. friendzy enbassy in Eavana but said new leaders i1ave been selected 
a._-id will resume sabotage activities shortly. 'l'hought the undergroun.d could 
restore tension in Cuba in 3-4 months. However, said outside help needed 
to get rid of Castro. Clahaed that prior to invasion, is was possible to 
buy almost anything in Cuba :from Castro officials -- they were tainted by 
corrup1;ion. Since Castro's victory at Bay of Pigs, his popular support is 
estir,ated to b~ around 80-85·;. Most support is out of fear because the 
people believe he w~ll be in power pernanently. Borja said DRE outside of 
Cuba worldng hard for release of former leader, Alberto Muller from prison. 
SECRET 
