I ,, 
i 
6. Possible Oswald-Cuban'i Connections 
• • ' 
• Rocca described document gaps in the materials that the Russian 
and Cuban governments forwarded to the WC via diplomatic channels. 
He described these areas as "open and relevant." _ 
Rocca drew attention to Oswald's Marine duty in California in 
1958. Basing most of his analysis on testimony of DelGado, Oswald's 
sergeant in California, Rocca maintained that Oswald had made contact 
with the Cubans at the Cuban Embassy in Los Angeles. Rocca said that 
DelGado had to release Oswald.from guard duty because someone from Los 
Angeles reinitiated contact while Oswald was on duty. 
Rocca placed specific. emphasis on Castro's" imp romp tu "comments 
to Harker at the Brazilian Embassy in Havana on September 7, 1963. 
Rocca viewed Castro's comments as a "message" to American leaders 
and said it was a "verv important signpost, 
11 
Rocca added that the_ 
Mexico City Station brought Castro's comments to Headquarter's atten­
tion on 11/25/63. Rocca also viewed Castro's comments- in terms of 
Oswald's J)ossible perception of them, since New Orleans Times Picayune 
ran the Harker article on September 9, 1963. (This is the line Slawson 
adopted: could Oswald have: read the piece?) 
ti 
In regard to the Castro comments (unfortunately my notes are 
sketchy here) Rocca refers to a 10/24/63 cable, memo,. or letter from , 
"Des to Paris." He then refers to an 11/5/63 memo for the record and 
said "man never heard from again." Rocca should be asked _to clarify 
these references. 
Rocca briefly outlined Cuban-Russian relations in the early 1960s. 
he described 1961 as the "seed time" between Cuba and the USSR. Rocca 
said that following the missile crisis, the KGB and DGI began a "pre­
liminary relationship." Rocca mentioned Srotof f (phonetic) and 
Alexiev (sic) as being KGB principals involved. Rocca said that when 
Castro visited Moscow in June-July 1963, Alexiev and Leonoff served 
as liaison between Kruschev and Castro. Rocca re'ferred to an escalation 
of_Alpha-66 activity (sporadicrevolutionary attacks on Cuban ports, 
vessels, etc.) in July-August 1963. Rocca places Castro's "warning" 
of September 7, 1963 in- the context of these activities. 
. ' . . 
Rocca said that· Oswald's activities for the FPCC in New Orleans 
were apparently self-motivated. Rocca added, however, that V. T. Lee, 
national chairman of the FPCC, visited Cuba in 1964. Rocca noted tha_t 
(fnu) Hernandez handled Lee's case and that Hernandez' office was next 
to Azcue' s, who,. according to Duran, argued with Oswald at the Cuban 
Embassy in Mexico City. According ·to Rocca, Hernandez was mentioned 
in penetration reports from Guatemala where Hernandez was running two 
DGI agents. Rocca outlined these relationships briefly to demonstrate 
DGI-FPCC connections. Rocca concluded that the Warren Commission should 
have paid more attention to:the .DGI. Rocca also mentioned that the 
CIA picked up a DGI defector named Mugg in April or May of 1964, who 
was handled by WH Division.: • 
I ,· 
I 
~~~ .. . 
' 
NW -5095-5 Docld: 32423630 Page 576 
