,. 
NW 50955 Docid:32202426 
1I' (Q) IP § E <C ~ IE 1' 
SENSITIVE 
H. TV intrusion: 
Status: Equipment to enable TV intrusion of Havana TV broadcasts 
has been reactivated on a small vessel under CIA control. CIA plans to 
attempt intrusion on 22 January during Castro's forthcoming speech and 
parade demonstrations. 
I. Special sabotage support 
Status: State has explored, with negative results,-the feasibility 
of pre-emptive action with respect to tanker charters (most Bloc ship­
ments to Cuba are carried in Western bottoms). CIA has initiated 
action to contaminate POL supplies for Cuba, although visible results 
( stoppage of some Cuban transport) is not expected until mid-1962, CIA 
a corrosive additive, an locomotive 
ercial suppliers{ ·, ~-4i:1 
•• • e:s ibr.;'e'filt tlo111m. expects to be able 
to have at leas one agent recruited by 28 February to attempt introduc­
tion of a corrosive additive to jet fuel storage tanks in Cuba. 
J. Military actions 
Status: Defense has been tasked with preparing a contingency plan 
for U.S. military action, in case the Cuban people request U.S. hell) 
when their revolt starts making headway, This contingency plan will 
permit obtaining a policy decision on the major point of U.S. intentions, 
and is looked upon as a positive political-psychological factor in a 
people's revolt, even more than as a possible military action. Defense 
also has been tasked with fully assisting State and CIA, as commitments 
of Defense men, money, and materiel are required. 
K. - of the o ulation 
,,,.~;:: 
St~:;._;_:;~;~~ ~~-i~fa)!& CIA are continuing to explore their capabilities 
(with r.e·s~lt:s~!~rgiHYt!iegative to date) for mounting special group operations 
.-, ';q.,..t•,•~·:"-· ... '1 ·~ -, : ' •.. • ... , • 
inside Cu~<!-Yc:>.<;¥,s~,dj~po:ri;dynamic elements of the population, particularly 
operation·s,-tl:{rough .. the Church to reach the women and families, and 
through Labor contacts to reach the workers. Other elements include 
enlistment of the youth and professional groupings;. Special consideration 
is to be given to doing this through Latin-Alnerican operational contacts. 
This is vital to the success of our political action nucleus when CIA can 
put it into place, 
L. Outlook 
Status: As reported to the Special Group last week, there has been a 
period of a realistic second look at CIA capabilities to mount the required 
clandestine operations against Cuba, and a subsequent start in "tooling up." 
After this second look, 'CIA has concluded that its realistic· role should be 
to create at least the illusion of a popular movement, to win external support 
for it, to improve CIA operational capability, and to help create a climate 
which will permit provocative actions in support of a shift to overt action. 
This outlook, although arrived at thoughtfully within CIA, is far short of 
the Cuba project's goals. CIA must take yet another hard look at its 
potential capabilities, in the light of the following tasking, to determine 
if it cannot make the greater. effort required. 
4 
RA c:,l)' SENSITIVE 
• TCOIP §JE<C~IET 
