DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING UNITED STATES POLICY 
IN VIETN.AJ,1, WASHINGTON, D. C., JANUARY 8, 1968 
( 
Rankin Brigade should be made up of only those women who 
volunteer to participate with the prior understanding that 
they should be ready to spend at least two months in jail 
\ for the commission of civil disobedience while in_Washington, 
\ D. C. • 
~ 
Sunderland also suggested that a good way to recruit 
women to join the Brigade would b1 o ma lee a pi tc~ for 
recruits when Mary Clarke, Da,gm?-r '.Jilson and Ruth)\K~ause 
are making their respective spea ·ng engagements· across the 
United States s-ince their return from a trip to No::.,th Vj,e,tJl~­
which they ... visited as. representatives of WSP during the J :: .. , 
fall of 19b7. ;_-.-
Source Four advised during the summer of 1965 
that June Sunderland, 3730 Hollister Avenue3 
Santa Barbara, California, had attended a 1967 
"peace conference 
II 
in B..elsinki, Finland, at the 
invitation of the Communist Party (CP), and t4at 
funds to cover her expenses were ra.ised in part 
by the CP; and that following her attendance at 
the Helsinki affair she went on to Russia for ten 
days at the invitation and expense of the Soviet 
Government. 
Source One learned that a communication was re­
ceived from easter;n sponsors of the JRB on Dscemb.er 7, 1967, 
indicatlng that the JRB march on Washington might not be 
held on January 8, 1968, but possibly would be set back until 
either the 15th or 22nd of January 1968, depending upon 
the date tha.t the United States Congress ·would reconvene. 
The communication indicated tDat since the entire purpose 
of the Brigade would be to confront the opening joint session 
of Congress that it would be futile to schedule the march 
prior to the date Congress would reconvene. The suggestion 
was made that recruitment of local womeri to participate in 
the tfRH be held in abeyance until a confirmation had been 
obtained indicating the date on which Congress would reconvene . 
... . ,,. Source One) had indicated that although the "Call 11, 
'. as reproduced in 11La Wisp", states, 11There will be local 
actions across the country at the same time as the a.~t:ton 
: in Washington., D. C . ., 11 that there are no current plar~s for 
I 
L----
- 3 -
NW 38321 Docld:32989544 Page 70 
