87I 
b. 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g. 
i. 
[ 
NW 
S" • "':ON 87. SECURITY -INVESTIGATIOi, - ...... 
• • 
Determine during security investigations whether subjeqts have any 
close relatives in armed forces. Promptly call su~h associations 
to attention of appropriate military intelligence services, together 
with pertinent data, including reports, on subjects involved. Eval­
uation of these associations lies entirely within province of mili-· 
tary intelligence services, but Bureau must disseminate this infor­
mation inme.diately upon receipt. .Advise Bureau by lettt:1r concerning 
any subversive contacts or infor!llcl,tion developed concerning military 
person::l.el, including statement as· ·to local dissemination and enclosing 
LHM setting out subversive data. 
Aliens and naturalized citizens 
Furnish information concerning aliens and naturalized citizens which 
might have bearing on their deportation or[denaturalization]to Immi­
gration and Naturalization Service {INS). If in doubt, disseminate. 
Employees of o·r persons having regular access to key facilities or 
employees of plants having contracts with military services 
See instructions in this se~tion concerning individuals employed in 
or having access to key facilities. 
Employees of public utilities {including state and'municipal 
facilities) which are not on key facilities list or otherwise in 
item c, above, and facilities which are or may become engaged in 
manufact.ure of materials vital to national defense 
Disseminate locally to .Army and other intelligence services if their 
interest is apparent. 
Individuals on inactive duty who are members of or hold commissions 
in reserve branches or National Guard 
Disseminate locally to appropriate mili-tary intelligence service. 
Seamen and subjects employed in maritime industry,•including long­
shoremen and water-front employees 
Disseminate locally to Coast Guard and, when circumstances dictate, 
to other interested intelligence agencies, including NISO. 
Employees of Federal Government within purview of Executive Order 10450 
No dissemination of reports in security of Government employees 
cases may be ma.de in field. If, however, subject is ·employed in key. 
facility, furnish copies of reports bearing dual character, "Security 
of Government Employees; Security Matter - C," to appropriate int~l­
ligence agencies of armed services. Instructions regarding dis­
semination to Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office, Defense 
Supply .Agency, Columbus, Ohio, appear in this section of this manual 
under individuals employed in or having access to key facilities -
dissemination. Instructions regarding all phases of FBI responsibil­
ities under Executive Order 10450 are in section 19, volume II, of 
this manual. 
Individuals who own property or reside in immediate vici_ni ty of 
installation or other premises under cognizance of branch of armed 
services 
Disseminate locally to intelligence service of military branch in­
volved. 
Airmen issued certificates by Federal .Aviation .Administration ·(Fil) 
F.A.A issues certificates to airmen, defined as persons in command or 
acting as[pilot,]mechanic, or member of crew in navigation of air­
craft while under way; individuals directly in charge of inspection, 
maintenance, overhauling, or re pair of aircraft, ,aircraft engines, 
propellers, or appliances; and any individual serving in cap~city 
of aircraft dispatcher or air-traffic control tower operator. Furnish 
to Bureau subversive data concerning such persons by report or L!Il1. 
In cover com.~unication, recommend such data be furnished to Fil. 
Dissemination will be made only at Bureau. For additional instructions 
regarding dissemination to Fil, see Manual of Rules and Regulations, 
part II, section 5. 
.. 
Page 1983 
52 
12-14-70 
C 
I 
~ 
I I l 
I I 
