SF 100~46832 
· WEH/dp • 
December 2, 1966 
:Qiscussion Unlimited, Incorporated (DU), sponsored 
a me·eting_December 2, 1966, in the auditorium of Los Angeles 
Trade College, 70'0 block, Washington Boulevard, Los Angeles, 
with from 1,000 to 1,500 people in attendance. The topic of 
the discussion was "What Will the New Development on the Left 
Be?" ROBERT SCHEER from ti.Ramparts" magazine, EUGENE GENOVESE 
. from Rutgers College in New Jersey, and DOROTHY HEALEY from ·­
··southern -·California District CP were the speakers. HEALEY 
spoke first, stating that.the most important things. for the 
groups on the_ left to do today w~re to unite on· common_.grounds 
and to be critical on grounds where_ ·they cannot agreti.,' as .well 
as to give allegiance t9 the othel' llJ socialist countries· in· 
the world. She des·cribed these countries. as the hope ·of the 
_. future. . ROBERT SCHEER attacked her Bitt_erly, his main contention 
being· that he felt he could not even· say he was a socialist 
·because of all-c-the crimes that are committed in the name of 
socialism. He said he could not.align himself with other 
countries in-the socialist world because of the barbaric 
• I • • . , . ;· • • .. • • • 
deeds committed by some of these countries. 
· He led a vicious attack against·· the: Soviet_ Union, • 
against_the ·sTALIN era, against·the·crimes that were committed. 
i_n the _Soviet Union _against Jewlsh people and Jewish c~lture, 
and against other . religiot1s. people ·and intellectuals in the . 
Soviet Union~ He made reference.to the ·two writers who had 
beeri recently-jailed in Russia.. • ln a rebuttal ·and ques·tion 
and an·sw•r p•riod the attack went back .and· forth, ·. tnainly 
between GENOVESE and HEALEY against.SCHEER for.his anti..;Soviet· 
Union,position. • SCHEER constantly brought up Hungary, stating 
that· the oppression that w.ent on ·in Hungary is no different 
, than the oppression Of the Untted States in Vietnamo He alsc{ 
said the Soviet Union 1s a sick ·society -just as the u. s. is• 
a sick society, and he is quite· sure that the workers ·1h. each· 
• society are not much· aware ·of or care about the relative 
difference of the sickness. - •• • 
89 
Page 
SF T-30, on 12/9/66 
SF T-31, on 12/13/66 
