14-00000 
which would permanently impair the facilities under attack nor would 
they seriously impair Castro's economic or military posture and, hence, 
serve no useful purpose. Furthermore, I estimated that under the laws 
of averages, a number of the teams would be rolled up and they would 
as they had in the past attribute the whole thing to the U.S. Government 
and the CIA. Since we had stood down the ALPHA 66 and others, more or 
less disenfranchised ourselves from the Cuban colony in Miami as a result 
of the Miro Cardona incident, we would have no plausible denial and in fact 
would find ourselves in a rather difficult position. It was agreed this matter 
should be further studied and reported on next Thursday, and possibly 
discussed with higher authority on Friday. An important part of this 
issue is the SNIE now under preparation which has to do with the future 
of Castro. 
ACTION: I should discuss this subject with 
General Carter and some of the 
Senior Staff on Friday morning to 
prepare an agreed CIA position 
and also to schedule the completion 
of the SNIE. 
4. North Vietnam monthly report was accepted. 
9~ 
5. - [!he funds for Kong Le were approved. However, Alexis 
Johnson was asked to go back to Ambassador Unger with an insistent 
mes sage that Phoumi support Kong Le with money now in which came 
from the United States. However, if this appeal failed, the support 
recommended in the paper should be given for a limited period of time,;) 
6. {jhe coveh~annex to the Bolivian internal defense plan was 
remanded because the Special Group (CI) had remanded the basic internal 
defense plan. However, there was no objection expressed to the annex 
but it must not be construed that the Special Group approved any subjects 
covered in the annex_] 
7. {jhe Colombian intern~
8
defense plan was not consideredJ 
8. lQolonel Steakley sut~tted a report on inadvertent over­
flights by reconnaissance since 1 January 1961. This report was noted. 
DCI raised the question as to why he·had not been informed. Apparently 
this was an oversight as written procedures had been established by 
Colonel Steakley for prompt informing of all members of Special Group 
when instances of this type occurred. Apparently, Alexis Johnson wa_!} 
-2-
\ 
' 
\ 
\ 
