f 
( 
[ 
c. 
, 
... 
( 
[ 
f [ 
NW 38321 
INVESTIGATION OP SUBVERST .. '1 
ORGANIZATIONS A1'{D INVIVL.S 
87C 
(4) Records of private firms. Obtain pertinent availabl~ information 
from records of private firms such as past or present employers. 
Checks of credit agencies should be limited to securing identifying 
information only. 
(5) Contacts with neighbors and fellow employees. 
should be made only where there is expectation 
pertinent information not otherwise availc::i.ble. 
Such inquiries 
they will develop 
(6) Canvass of established sources and informants. Contact informants 
and sources in position to be knowledgeable concerning subversive 
groups with which subject is affiliated .. 
(7) Physical and ·photographic surveillanceso These should be 
considered on selective basis when circumstances indicate they 
may be productive. 
Interviews of subjects 
(1) Policy 
Subjects of investigation should be interviewed in the absence of 
exceptional circumstances. Generally, interv'iews should be 
_considered after background inquiries have been completed and a 
good picture of subject's activities developed. .. 
If a decision not to interview a subject is made, this should be 
fully eJ>..-plained in case file and FBIHQ advised whenever FBIHQ 
is cognizant of investigation. 
(2) Purpose 
To develop information regarding subversive activities in which 
the subject is engaged. 
(3)' Approval to interview 
All interviews of subjects may be approved by SAC except following 
instances which require FBIHQ approval: 
(a) When subject holds leadership position in subversive 
organizationo • 
(b) When subject is nationally prominent or where ~ircumstances 
otherwise indicate the interview could be widely publicized, 
such as labor leaders, educators, religious leaders or 
journalists. 
(c) When interview is to be conducted in presen'?e of subject's 
attorney and/or aide. 
(d) When subject is connected with institution of learning. 
(4) Letter requesting FBIHQ approval to interview subject. 
(a) Letter should concisely set out available data concerning 
following items. • 
I. Residence address, employment, race, date and place of 
birth, citizenship and any health factors which could 
affect conduct of interview. 
II. Marital status, employment and citizenship of spouseo 
III. Succinct summary of subject's subversive activities, 
membership on affiliation with subversive groups, and 
positions held. 
IV. Similar summary regarding spouse's affiliation with 
subversive activities. 
v. Similar summary concerning subversive activities on 
part of close relatives. 
VI. Resume of subject's current sympathies and si;atus in 
subversive movement or organization and any indicatiqn 
.. of disaffection"" 
i. 
11 • 
6 .. ,6-73 
Page 1371 
! .i 
! 
