13-00000 
.............. 
.• 
SECRET/SENS HI VE 
3. 
i 
0
Tlfis cdu1d-leac:r t'o a s-,Yml)osiurn-'1n whi"c:h he· wcH.rld<-be -invrt.'ed to 
participate and respond to adversary views: His reaction to 
.. such a proposal is unknown .. He has always resisted control in 
the sense of being an agent of any given country. Further, he 
does make demands for classified information and position papers 
including the nature of the sources before addressing himself to 
any particular problem .. Nevertheless, his paper on your speeches 
were obtained from him using only unclassified infonnation. • 
6. • His production has run into severa 1 thousands of pages 
of transcripts of interviews inc 1 udi ng meetings which he had • 
with other foreign intelligence and security services. The 
range of his infonnati on is so vast and detailed that we are 
hard put to use it as an overlay for interpreting current Soviet 
events .. We have learned from experience that if we.give him a 
problem with an adequate data base, he will computerize and re-
. arrange his basic information to support his analysis of any new 
subject. This approach has been fruitful because in supporting· 
his thesis, he often reveals new information of value. • 
7. Attachment C is a sensitive report received from our· 
Israeli liaison; Attachment D is an assessment regarding -the 
activities, role, modus operandi and reason for . 
Ambassador DOBRYNIN's success vis-a-vis the United States (which 
is incomplete wherever an asterisk is indicated); and . 
Attachment E is a rough draft of _his review of the following 
books - SOVIET STRATEGY FOR THE SEVENTIES, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
AS AN INSTRUMENT OF SOVIET POLICY and CONVERGENCE OF COMMUNISM· 
AND CAPITALISM - A SOVIET VIEW - submitted to us during your 
tenure in the Agency by Mr. Don Cotter. We intend to fol low up • 
on this at some future date. This, and other attachments, are 
partly drawn from a draft manuscript which he has in his posses­
sion. The manuscript runs to over two. thousand pages. He guards. 
it jealously and is reluctant to publish it at this time. He-
has permitted me to read several chapters, and they are of unique 
interest because of .the classified information (based on documents) 
which he read in Moscow. 
8. By way of digression, a bird's eye view is set forth 
below of Source's theme. 
9. The major reorganization (which produced the KGB 
Department of Disinformation) and the gradual reorientation of the· 
KGB and GRU was completed at the end of 1958 when SHELEPIN sue- . 
ceeded General SEROV as the chairman of the KGB. (General SEROV, 
who worked with KHRUSHCHEV in the Ukraine, was downgraded· to head 
the GRU). This development climaxed two years of inspection by a 
SECRET/SENSITIVE 
