-L':1-
Promote a Coup 
A. The Chilean Conspirators 
Anti-Allende coup plotting in Chile centered around several key 
individuals. One of these was retired General Roberto Viaux, the General 
* who had led the "Tacnazo" insurrection a year before. Following the 
"Tacnazo" revolt, and his dismissal from the Army, Viaux retained the 
support of many non-commissioned and junior officers as well as being 
the recognized leader of several right-wing civilian groups. (CIA 
Briefing Paper, "Special Mandate from the President on Chile," July 
15, 1975) 
Another individual around which plottin~centered was General Camilo 
Valenzuela, Commander of the Santiago Garrison. General Valenzuela was 
in league with several other active duty officers, including Admiral 
Hugo Tirado, Navy Commander in Chief; General Vicente Huerta, Director 
General of the Carabinero (police) Corps; General Canales, Director of 
the Military Academy; and General Joaquin Garcia, second in command, 
Air Force. (CIA Report on Chilean Task Force Activities, November 18, 
1970) All of these officers, with the possible exception of Canales, 
** were in contact with Viaux as well. 
*This revolt was engineered by Vieux ostensibly for the ~urposes of drama­
tizing the military's demand for higher pay, but was widely interpreted as 
fl:" ' 
1,,.··.:· 
,\, 
-
an abortive coup. ·---.: 
**The record of meetings between Viaux and the active duty military officers 
is incomplete. The record does show, however, that Viaux met with General 
Huerta around October 7. (Chile Task Force Log, October 7). On October 12 
Viaux met with General Valenzuela (Chile Task Force Log, 14 October). One 
cable from Santiago indicates that Admiral Tirado may have been a member 
of Viaux's inner circle of conspirators. (Station 545, 16 October 1970) 
At the very least, Tirado was in contact with Viaux. v\ . ;:i 
·?· • . \ :. ·1 ' \ 
Although a distinction can be made between the;',:V:i.aux and Valenzuela. grci'~ps, 
as CIA witnesses did throughout their testimony before the Committee, the 
principal distinction between the two was that the latter was led by active duty 
military officers. The two groups were in contact with each other. The 
record also indicates that they worked together in at least two of the three 
Schneider kidnap attempts. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 465 
i 
t 
i 
fflQ 
~-, 
t' 
-
