-11-
Ambassador Korry was asked to go directly to President 
'·,·Frei 'to see if he would be willing to commit himself to 
'thi~ line of action. A contingency of $250,000 was 
approved for "covert support of projects which Frei or 
his trusted team deem important." It was further agreed 
that a propaganda campaign be undertaken by the Agen-cy 
to focus on the damage of an Allende takeover .••• 
(CIA Memorandum/Policy Decision Related to Our 
Covert Action Involvement in the September 1970 
Chilean Presidential Election, ·9 October 1970) 
Following the September 14 Forty Committee meeting and President 
~ixon 1 s September 15 instruction to the CIA, U.S. Government efforts 
* to prevent Allende from assuming office proceeded on two tracks. Track 
I comprised all covert activities approved by the 40 Committee, in­
cluding the $250,000 contingency fund to bribe Chilean congressmen as 
-
well as propaganda and economic activities. These activities were 
designed to induce the opponents to Allende in Chile to prevent his 
assumption of power, either through politi_cal or military meanse Track 
* The terms Track I and Track II were known only to CIA and White House 
officials who were knowledge.able about the President's September 15 order 
to the CIA~ The Committee sent letters to various- senior officials in­
quiring if they were, in fact, not knowledgeable of the Track II activities. 
Those letters were sent to Secretary of State William Rogers, Secretary of 
Defense Melvin Laird, Deputy Secretary of Defense David Packard, Under­
secretary of State for Political Affairs U. Alexis Johnson, Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Thomas Moorer, NSC Staff Membe.r for 
Latin America Viron P. Vaky, Director of the State Department's Bureau' 
of Intelligence and Research Ray ·s. Clim,·, -and the Deputy Chief of Mission 
in Santiago Harry W. Shlaudeman~ Thus far the Committee has received 
written responses from Messrse Moorer, Johnson, Vaky, Shlaudeman and Cline. 
All except Cline have indicated that they had no knowledge of the Track II 
activity at the time; Cline indicated he heard of the activities in a 
general way, from his subordinare who handled 40 Committee work and from 
former associates at the CIA. In oral communications with Committee 
staff memb~Js, Secretaries ~agers and Laird have indicated they were unaware 
· of Track· II. 
'i 
Hlf 5095.5 DooI<l.: 32423.525 Page 85 
-
