I 
SECRET 
SAMUEL ADA.SON JAFFE 
Identification of Soviet Nationals Employed in the 
tress Department ... Soviet Foreign Ministry, Mosco..,E 
. Jaffe was shown photographs of several Soviet nationals 
and he identified Leonid Mitrofanovich Zamyatin, Boris Dmitrievich 
Pyadyshev, and Fedor Stepanovich Fedorenlco as employees of the 
Press Department, Soviet Foreign Ministry, ·with wh9m he had 
contact while in Moscow. He was shown a photograph of Fedor (1. • 
I 
Yakovlevich ·semenov, but he did not recognize this individual \._­
and stated he was not identical with the Fedor Semenov he 1'-,.,new 
1 in Moscow.as the Number Three Man in the Press Department of 
the Soviet Foreign Ministry. 
Jaffe was asked if he observed any •inc;lication that 
any of these individuals wer·e connected with .Soviet Intelligence e 
Jaffe replied in the negative; however, he stated Boris r--yadyshev 
'.'is a very strange guy. A young man. Vladimir (Petrovsk.iy) told 
me he had risen to Number Two man (in the Press Department) .11 (} 
.Taffe recalled that on one occasion when he was accompanying_ G 
N. Ko Khrushchev on a trip, he invited Zamyatin to have a drinko 
Although Zamyatin ordinarily did not drink with Jaffe, he 
accepted his invitation on this occasion. Zamyatin indicated 
he was very,1tired of his position in the Press Department and 
planned to'retire and ·write under a pseudonym. According to. 
Jaffe, Mira Petrovskaya said she went to school ·with Pyadyshev. 
Jaffe said he found Pyadyshev to be a very bright, but very cold 
individual. Jaffe stated: 11I have always felt that Mira 
Petrovskaya ·was connected with KGB;" however, she has never made 
any intelligence approach to Jaffeo. 
( 
Jaffe then mentioned a Soviet national named Yuri 
Bekov (phonetic) and stated: "There is no question that he ·was 1 ..,,<_ 
KGB. (He was con.i.-i.ected ·with) Press Department. He could do more L/ 
things. than the Press Department, but he was supposed•: to be an 
arm of the Press Department on trips. He knew all the overt 
KGB men.u 
(Fedor Stepanovich fedorenko has been reported 
as connected with the Soviet Committee of 
Information.) 
SECRET 
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989104 Page 252 
