" ( SECTION 107, SECURITY INFORMANTS(A~D CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] 107N 
f. If the informa,receives from outside employme-less than[$4800,] 
all of whioh is subject to Social Security tax, the amount on wb.ich • 
he will have to report for Social Security tax purposes, if he com­
pletes a schedule C, is the difference between the amount received 
from regular employment ·and[ $4800,] 
g. If informant completes a schedule C, the nature of business of the 
self-employed must be stated and informants should be instructed to 
use ~s the nature of self-employment any applicable occupation with­
out revealing connection with the Bureau, 
7. Stipulation-re payments made to witnesses 
a, In trials in which informants, former informants, or other persons who 
were paid sums of money are prospective witnesses, the Bureau must 
furni'sh the Department tabulations of payments· made to such prospective 
witnesses, The office.handling prosecution must determine from the 
departmental attorneys what individuals are to be used as witnesses. 
Thereafter the office should furnish and/or cause other appropriate 
offices to furnish to the Bureau the following information: 
l
ll The correct, full name 
2 . All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
3 The first date of contact by your office 
4 If first contact was prior to September, 1944, the names of all 
SAs, SAC·s, and ASACs who contacted and may have made .payments 
(5) A tabulation of all payments, broken down as to the amount appli­
oa,ble to services and the amount applicable to expenses 
(6) 'A listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
.aa:vances • 
(7
8
) The date of last contact by your office 
( ) Whether the indi-vidual has been contacted by any other office 
bo Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. 
~f no contact was made with a particular individual, the Bureau must 
be so advisede 
c 0 Where an informant has previously been used and a tabulation of pay­
ments was prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be given 
only from the date of the last trial from which the individual was 
used. 
d 0 The abo,re information should be submitted separate and apart fi•om 
correspondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be 
addressed to the attention of the Administrative Division, Voucher 
Un:i.t.- Interdi-visional correspondence should be addressed. to the 
Bureau with copies designated for ·che interested. offices. 
a. Receipt of unemployment compensa·hion 
a. At times security informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
with pi•ivate industry due to strikes, economic conditions, or similar 
circumstances. As a result they become eligible for unemployment 
compensation. Whe:r·e unemployment regulations reg_u:i.re listing of all 
sources of income as a prerequisite for obtaining unemployment 
compensation and. security informants and/or sources who at the time 
are being paid by the Bureau for services rendered fail to comply, 
the situation is potentially embarrassing. The Buretrn cannot 1,e 
placed in the position of condoning a violation of the state law on 
the part of any informant or source. Each field office must determine 
from state unemployment compensation officials effect of unemployment 
compensation laws on paid. informants and/or sources. Depending on 
local requirem,ents, informants and sources must be alerted accorciingly. 
b 0 Whenever a paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has 
knowledge of. impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and 
submit observations and recommendations to Bureau. Unless ad.vised 
to the contrary by the Bureau, follow recommended action. Each 
office.must assume the responsibility of guarding against informant's 
accepting a Bureau payment that would conflict wi•:;h unemployment 
compensation laws. At the same time, weigh seriously the possible 
need f.or an informant ·l;o apply and accept unemployment compensation to 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1191 21 
2-12-60 
