"' 
• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
Re: Senstudy 75 
• 
ambiguities requiring recontact with Committee staffs; the 
assignment of research responsibilities to substantive Divisions; 
following such responsibilities to tnsure timely responses; 
as well as -representing the FBI on the Executive ·committee 
of the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group for Congressional Review of 
the Intelligence Community. Assistant Director John A. Mintz is 
also a member of the Executive Committee. This latter responsi­
bility will provide Cregar apd Mintz with direct liaison not 
only with senior officials of the intelligence community but 
also with the President's counsel. 
Mr. Elmer w. Larson, Unit Chief, Training Unit, IS-3 
Section, Intelligence Division will act as Cregar's Number One 
Man; will administer the work of the ·Project; and act in the 
absence of Cregar. 
Seymor F. Phillips, Unit Chief, Civil Disorders 
Reporting Unit, IS-1 Section, Intelligence Division will serve 
as the Review Coordinator for the Project. His responsibilities 
will be to review all research; coordinate all responses; be 
available to consult with substantive Divisions as to proper 
form of our responses; identify any conflicts in FBI positions 
where several Divisions are responding to a particular question; 
as well as to insure the quality, completeness· and adequacy 
of responses to Select Committees requests. Additionally, 
Phillips will be responsible for the preparation of abstracts 
to be furnished to the Interagency Registry maintained at CIA 
Headquarters. This Registry established by the Executive Committee 
of the Ad Hoc Group at the suggestion of and with the concurrence 
of the White House will serve as the coordinating mechanism 
for the entire intelligence community. 
Mr. Leon F. Schwartz, Liaison Officer with CIA, CI-4 
Sectiop, Intelligence Division will function as the Liaison 
Officer with the intelligence community responsible for coordi­
nating and.clearing all information under the third agency rule 
where FBI responses are of interest to or are of a proprietary 
interest to other agencies of the intelligence community. Schwartz 
will serve as the Bureau's representative on the Ad Hoc Coordinating 
Group for Congressional Review of the Intelligence Community. 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38296 Docld:32989ti-28 Page 126 
