-. 107P - 0. 
) " \ 
~,CURITY m:tORMhlTTS r:n CON}'11):F:i', ~~"i.L 
• • 
SECTIOi'l 107. SOURCl'~S 
P. SIGNING O.i<' LOYALTY OA'l'HS, AF1'"'IDAVI1'S, AND ~;:i'.ATF:MEHTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guida sccurlty info1fflants away from 
situations requir1ng them to sign or fill out loynlty oatho or forms. 
2. Infor;naut~: ohoulc 1 be c~:utionod to ke:i:p the contaoti·nt: Agent fully 
advised of any s.: Luation wherein t]IC'y might be -requ.i:.c-ed to sign such a 
form. 
3 0 Advise Burenu promptly of all such situationo which canuot be avoided. 
4. The Bureau will consider as a last resort advi~ing another agency of 
the informant's relationship w:i.th the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant's activity; however, ouch situation~ 
must be kept to a minim:um in view of the obviouo dangers to the 
informant. 
• • 5. • Each such situation must be carefully considered and nurcau is to be 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mcndation·for proposed action. 
6 0 In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
Cl... DIS~OWt'IHU~D IHFORl1A!iTS 
1. WhC!n the se:::--rice:.; of an informant :·re discontinued, mark the name card 
"ca.noelled. 11 n·estroy the symbol c- ·d. 1-iever destroy the name ct,,rd. 
2. Refil1, the name card in numerico.l , . der by symbol number in the sy:nbol 
number index. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued ~otential 
security informant or confidential source to ,,hom 8. syrn.bol numbe:r wa.s 
once assig~ed later is reactivated, remove his n&me card from the 
symbol number index; murk it reactivated v,ith appropriate date, note 
thereon type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential security informant or confidential source is discon­
tinued aud a permanent symbol has not been assj,gned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
[ 4. Advise the Bureau[of the date]when a pote::1tial informant or informant is 
discontinued and the reason-therefor. 
5. AJvise the Bureau as to whether or nbt the informant is willing to testify 
. in open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity ot 
all oases of security of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance vii th section 69F, volv.me III, of this m;;,.nual 0 
6. Review the informant's file to determine if 1,,ny copies or s~mr .. aries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Depart­
ment's interest in usin& the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available is a witness are contained therein. In those casesin which it 
is evident the Deoartment has indicated a desire to cbnsider the inform­
ant further whei he becomes available, ad~ise the Bureiu in each such 
substantive case, except in those cases in which it is obvious the statu.te 
of limitations has ru~ ~r the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does not apply _t9 s e, .• ~ ty of qovernment employees cases: When all 
above action is oonpj,. ' .-::l, advise the Bureau. • 
.7. A statem~nt shall also ~e made to the effect that the measures to con­
trol inforr.1ants_, set ou·~ in 8 below, have bee"!1 considered and recommenda­
tions shall be r;iade when it appe•ars that such are warranted. 
a. When the services of an informant are discontinued, maintajn close con­
tact with him so that the info! .. ,,nt will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be ·agains~·the Bureau's 
best interests.· When an informant is dis continued, det.ermine whether 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newopaper article, or ~the~­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than making other a:crangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1445 
24 
4-13-64 
( 
