13-0,0000 
r,. r 
I" 
( 
ODO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET ( 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
• counterpart to the U.S. Peace Corps.'. Such volunteers are sent to the U.S. 
for a period of .service in_~.hoQILand corrimu.iiify development programs._) 
The name of the organization may vary by country. 
8. OPER-\ TIONAL USE REQUIRES APPROVAL BY CHIEF OF AREA 
DIVI.SION 
Operational use of any indiyidual in the categories listed in this paragraQh 
• • is consi~ed of such· sensiti~ty as to require specilu' consideration and· ap­
proval by the appropriate Area Division Chief. This authority may not be 
delegated.. The request for approval will be by memorandum in which the 
individual's covert approval status will be described, together with a concise 
explanation of the intended operational use. 
a. Citizens or .4.lien Residents of the .U.S. Used in Denied Areas: (see 
DOI 50-19) • ,. 
•• The operational use in denied areas of U.S. citizens, or of aliens ,vlio have· 
been admitted for petmaneht residence· or have resided-· for ·l!. prolonged 
period in the U.S.1 requires the prior approval of the Chief of·the Area 
Division. u~der whose ji.J.risdiction the intended ·use is to take .place. 
- . . . . -·. . . .. •'. . . 
b. Non-U.S. Citizen Delegates or Employees of the United Nations not As~·. 
,signed in the U.S. •• • • •• -
The operational use of .ncin-U.S. citizen delegates or employees of the; 
United Nations who are not assigned in the U.S. requires the prior ap­
proval of the Chief of the Area Division under whose jurisdiction the in­
tended use is to take place. 
c. Members of the Acad.emic Community 
( 1) Within the context of this instruction :a member of the academic com-: 
munity is defined as: any student, ·faculty member, administrative·: 
• _ officer or staff official of a college, university or similar institution of 
higher learning includip.g their associated research centers. Persons 
associated with institutions such as police or military training centers 
( except the four college-level military service academies) or under­
going specialized technical training ,vith business or commerci~l firms 
are not considered to be members of the academic community. 
( 2) Operational use of members of the academic community, esp~cially . 
those cases wherein an individual is to be made witting of Agency 
interest, will be on a highly selective basis. Each case will be examined 
.. to ascertaiµ ·its .. essentiality- to the ODO ~i_ssion in terms-of. tht:i price 
of pos:.ible disclosure, and to ensure .. that proper security procedures _ .. 
can be observed. When it has been determined that· the operationn l 
use of a member of the academic community l!-5) defined above is 
I :, ., 
SECRET 
. 
I 
