INI'ERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY 
-Regarding the CIA and police, the only thing 
Papich recalls is discussion of the CIA's relation­
ship with New York City police. The purpose was 
not operations, but protection of CIA New York 
facilities. He was also aware of relationships 
between Washington, D. C., and suburban police for 
protection of CIA facilities and personnel. He 
• knew that some CIA employees joined questionable 
groups and that the CIA. was concerned about its 
personnel associating with radicals and protesters. 
The CIA Office of Security informed the FBI in 
1967-1970 that it had developed from two to six 
sources to assess involvement of CIA personnel in 
protest groups. The information provided to the 
FBI from these sources about such groups was "crap". 
Papich was not involved in any meetings with CIA 
sources. He is not aware of any CIA activity re­
garding Women's Strike for Peace, nor was he aware 
of any CIA intelligence operations for the purpose 
of protecting CIA from violent demonstrations. 
CIA should have relied on FBI. 
Bill Creager was succeeded as liaison with Office 
of Security by Fred Cassidy. They proyided memo­
randa to the FBI Intelligence Division on all trans­
actions with CIA. Creager kept Papich advised, 
especially of the potential for flaps and for 
successful operations. Papich believes Office of 
Security was restricted both in number of personnel 
and by CIA rules. It could claim a need to protect 
its own facilities and personnel but it didn't 
have significant capability. If it did, it would 
have been detected by the FBI. 
Regarding the Dominican Republic in 1965, Papich 
recalls the fear of another Cuba by the President 
and the National Security Council. Johnson may 
have asked the FBI for help. An FBI agent from 
the office in Sa,n Juan, Puerto Rico, and possibly 
from Mexico City, were sent to the Dominican 
Republic. This was done with CIA approval and the 
joint effort was successful. There were no flaps. 
The FBI agent had sources all over Central America 
going back to World War II. Other FBI activities 
in the Caribbean grew out of the FBI's role in 
Havana before Castro, Jamaica, Miami, and San Juan. 
In all these areas the FBI's capability was based 
NW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 18 
Page/G of,?/ 
