TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST , _ _;. ___ _ 
,. -·- 1, ••• ' --
on-Berlin and hinting at a confrontatioQ late in the year, 
thus creating the impression that a Berlin crisis would not 
come until after the US election. In fa~t, the USSR in its 
statement of the following day (11 September) on Cuba stated 
• this explicitly. There were vague hints of Khrushche~ 9 s in­
tent to attend the UNGA in New York. Khrushchev appears now 
to h_ave been throwing up a diplomatic smoke-screen behind 
~hich to carry out the deployment of strategic forces in~o 
.Cuba, but those present at the meeting of 10 September did 
not have the benefit of. this hindsight. Furthermore, they 
must all have been acutely aware that Cuba was potentially 
the campaign issue th~t.could most seriously ~amage the Admin-
istration_ in the election campaign then beginning~ • 
25. At the meeting, the Secretary of State objected to 
the CIA. proposal for two extended overflights _covering the 
remainder of the island -not covered in the 29 August and 5 
September missions. He insisted, instead, that coverage of. 
the rest of Cuba should be designed so that peripheral flights 
over: international waters ·would not be combined with over­
flights of Cuban territory. To meet.his·wishes, the program 
was divided into four flights, two overflights and two peri­
pheral. One overflight was to be over the Isle of Pines and 
the other 6ver the part of Cuba east,of 77° West to cover 
Guantanamo and Banes. One ·peripheral flight was to cover 
-the north coast of eastern Cuba, the other the south coast. 
The overflights would be quick "in-and-out" .operations, while 
all four were to be designed· for maximum safety. . (There· . . 
is apparently no written record that a decision was mad~ not 
to fly over known SA-2 sites, but in obtaining approval for 
the tracks it was necessary to provide assurance ~hat they 
~id not do so.) Later the DCI negotiated with the Depart­
merit of State permission to extend the Isle of Pines mis-
sion o~er the Bay of Pigs are~ of. Cuba proper. The Presi­
dent· approved this program, authorizing three flights in 
September in addition to the one remaining of the normal 
September allocation (Special Group action of 19 July). 
Thus·, the record shows that the President authorized every­
thing the Special Group requested. 
-13-
TOP SECRET DINAR ~HESS RUFF IDEALIST 
