[ 1 
. - . 
.. .. 
[ 
( 
[ 
-· 
SECTIOl-T 1"07. .URITY I1H'ORl"1ANTS[AND CO.NB:~DEN. , SOURCES] 107N 
(2) 
~!~ 
( 5) 
f~! 
•i ~l 
Residenoe· n.nd employment (If no change since last justification 
ljtter, merely state "no change~") 
Current membership in subversiv~ organizations 
Summary of information furnished and/or services rendered during 
pertinent period • 
Amount paid for services and expenses by month 
(Initial justification letter- should set forth amount, if any, 
ever paid under SAG authority.) 
Type a.nd number of meetings attende<'l, and other activity 
Number of written and oral statements submitted 
(List separately.) • 
Information furnished of unusual value 
.Approximate number of persons on whom informant furnished coverage 
and their importance 
Informant's potential for advancement 
~
10! . 11 Stability and reliability • - ; ~. 
d. 
e. 
f. -
g. 
(12) 
. 
(13) 
(14) 
( Set forth personl).l weaknesses, .domestic difficu·1 ties, indications 
of untrustworthine~s or unreliability, or other similar problems 
presented by informant, and steps being taken to pr~vent any such 
situations from later becoming source of embarra.ssment to the 
Bureau.) •• • • 
Indoctrination against disclosure • • 
(State whether every opportunity has been taken to properly 
indoctrinate informant against making any disclosure of his 
·relationship ·with Bureau through a~y media.) 
"All necessary action taken on in£ormation furnished 
r1i scellaneous 
{.Any other matters concerning informant's operation which should 
·be brought to Bureau's attention) 
(Where applicable, substitute potentjal informant, confidential 
source, panel source, or source of inforraation for the word 11informa.nt. 11 ) 
When payment to an informant has been authorized for a definit~ 
period of time, advise the Bureau at least two weeks in advance of the 
expir2.tion of t1e period for which payment has been authorized as to 
whether the services of the informant ·are to be continued. 
Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau req-uesting continuation of payments. Follow form in 
subsection 3ll. 
Letters requesting iuthority to continue (increase, decrease) payments 
t·o an informant should be submitted in duplicate except that the 
copy should consist only of the first page of the letter. When . 
payments as requ0sted by the field are approved, the single-page 
copy w:i.11 be starn1.> ed ''Approved" at the Bureau and returned. If ·the 
recommE.ndation is not approYed, correspondence will be prepared 
and transmitted to the field. 
In ore.er for this system to function properly, payment letters must 
be explicit. 
When pr.yments a:r.•e ~rnthorized by the Burea.u, it is the personal resp-onsi­
bility of ea.ch SAC definitely to assure himself that ftill value is 
being received. 
h. (Discontinuance of payments] 
If at any time it appears the information being produced by the 
informant is not co1muensurate with the payments being maae to him, 
the payr:1ents should be immediately discontinued or adjusted accordingly 
and the Bureau promptly advised. • 
i. [Extraordinary expenses] 
In oon:wction with the operation of paid informants, if any extr:ior­
dinary· expenses are anticip.-:ted for which approval has not been given, 
obtain specifio Bureau authority. 
19 
- . - ...... ~,.. l"\ , .. 
' . ' 
