I 
! 
I 
I 
I 
l 
,/ 
I ~ 
j • 
U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON 
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC); 
INTERVIEW OF FORMER ASSISTANT DIRECTOR JOSEPH K. PONDER 
BY SSC STAFF MEMBER 
He asked whether the request for the King 
coverage originated at the Bureau or in Atlanta. I told 
him I did not recall, but that in any case it was 
approved by the Bureau. He asked where it was monitored 
and I told him the monitoring was done in an apartment 
rented for that purpose. He asked if I knew the name in 
which the apartment was rented and I said I did not. He 
asked why the taps were discontinued and I told him I 
do not now recall whether I was told why they were 
discontinued, but if I were I cannot now recall the 
reason. ae asked whether we had a bug on King as opposed 
to a tap and I told him, "no." He asked whether it were 
possible there were taps and bugs placed and maintained 
without my knowledge. I told him that was not possible 
because of the size of the office and the relationship 
I had with the supervisors and Agents that nothing was 
done without my knowledge or without Bureau approval. 
Epstein asked whether we had conducted any 
Counterintelligence Program against King or the Southern 
Christian Leadership Conference and I told him I recalled 
none. He asked whether we had made efforts to prevent 
King from receiving the Nobel Prize or efforts to interfere 
with or make more difficult the raising of funds for a 
banquet to honor King for his receipt of the Nobel Prize. 
I told him I knew of no such efforts. 
He asked whether Sullivan (Assistant Director 
William C. Sullivan) had visited Atlanta. I told him 
Sullivan had been to Atlanta in connection with a regional 
confer~nce dealing with the Bureau's investigation of the 
Klan. He wanted to know if Baumgartner had been with Sullivan 
and I told him I thought so. He asked who else had 
accompanied Sullivan and I told him Arbor Gray had 
accompanied Sullivan and perhaps someone else whose name 
I cannot now recall. He asked whether Sullivan had met 
with Ralph Magill (then publisher of the Atlanta 
Constitution). I told him Sullivan may have met with Magill, 
that I may have accompanied Sullivan to Magill's office, 
but I cannot specifically recall such a meeting and if it 
-2-
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989£53 Page 124 
