( 
5. 
.. 
[ 
[ .... : 6 • 
7. 
a. 
( 9. 
10. 
11. 
( 
SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS AfTD CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 107!1 
• 
' . \ 
-
Subfiles 
a. A subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where a 
subfile is neoessary only in those instances involving possible 
prosecu:l;ion. The original of each statement, whether personally 
written by the informant or furnished orally and reduced to writing 
by contacting Agent, should be filed in this subfile. Executed form 
FD-3O6 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
set forth on form FD-3O6 should be stapled to the original of each· 
such statement. 
b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for secure 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any portion 
of statements or notations thereon, 
Channelization 
Excerpts from the informant•s statement are to be included in the regular 
investigative case report when information of value is submitted. Form 
FD-3O6 may be used to disseminate this information to the case file in 
lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired, If so used, prepare copies 
of FD-3O6 as needed for·[channelization]and staple one copy to each copy 
of the informant's statement being channelized, Channelization should be 
noted on original FD-3O6 and on all copies. 
Channelizing memoranda - destruction of 
For instructions concerning the destruction of channelizing memoranda, 
see Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
Dissemination of information 
Information submitted by informants, potential informants, confidential 
. sources, or sources of information should be-reported to t~e Bureau and 
interested offices and other agencies whenever necessary by the appro­
priate means of cornmunioation under captions showing the subject matter 
of the information. 
Correspondence 
Correspondence submitted in security 
informant matters should be strictly 
handling of the informant and should 
erly furnished to the Bureau under a 
Maintenance of files 
informant and potential security 
limited to the administrative 
not contain information more prop­
substantive case caption. 
a. All symbol number informant files, pending and closed, shall be 
maintained under lock and key under the personal supervision of the 
SAC, ASAC, field supervisor, or responsible employee designated by 
the SAC. . 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in.the open 
files section, provided there is no disclosure of the informant's 
identity on the s~atements. . 
o. All informant files should be maintained in such a manner as to insure 
that all information furnished by a.particular informant will be 
immediately available upon the request of the Bureau. 
d. In addition, these files should be maintained in such a fashion that 
the identities of the cases in which an informant has furnished 
competent evidence can be furnished immediately to the Bureau by 
simp_ly referring to the file of the informant and without the necessity 
of conducting extensive research, . 
Use of informant by Department - filing correspondence re 
From time to time, the Department expresses an interest in using a partic­
ular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witness, 
As a result, there will be correspondence showing this situation between 
the Bureau and the field. Place copies of all ~uch correspondence in 
the informant's file. Occasionally such correspondence may be volu­
minous and apply to more than one informant. In those cases, summarize· 
the information concerning each particular informant and place the summary 
in the appropriate informant 1 s file. 
Form FD-238 
Form FD-238 (printed on pink paper} has been approved for use in security 
informant and potential security informant files. It is to be used in 
the nature of a table of contents or as an index to show where in the 
file particular data can be found. This form is to be k~pt as the top 
17 
5-13-68 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1319 
l 
I l i ; 
t 
I l ; 
1 i 
I 
I I 
