107N - 0 SEG~IO?J' 1. SECURITY INFOR1'1Al~TS ./I.ND com-EWTI.AL SOURCES 
·,i 
protect his security. Fellow members of the per·l;inent subversi -ve 
organization may be aware of his unemployment status and. would. expect ( 
him to apply. Where a state requires no·bifioation of Bureau payments 
to informants that would necessitate disclosure of thei:r id.entity, 
then Bureau payments should be discontinued during the period they 
1~eceive unemployment compensation benefits. 
9 0 Handling money and property received by double agents 
a. Double agents must turn over to the Bureau any n1oney or property. 
received from their principals in connection with the double agent 
in·l;eJ.ligence operation. This should be made clear to the double 
agen·l; at the inception of the operation ( consider obtaining a signed 
statement to this effect). Exceptions to this rule must be specifi­
cally approved by the Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements must 
be made for payments to dou·o1e agents for services rende:r·ccl to the 
Bureau. 
b 0 Any money or property recei-ved by a double agent from his p_rincipal 
represents possible future evidence and the double agent should 
execute a statement describing the money recei-v-ea. by type of currency,_ 
denomination, series of issue, and serial number a.nd appropriately 
describing any other property received. This statement should be 
signed by the double agent's code name. 
c. Money or property recei-ved from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regul2.tions, • 
a. Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from double agents 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refresh­
ing recollection in the e-vent testimony is later necessary. 
0. SEMIANNUAL LETTER 
A semian~ual letter should be submitted to ~he Bureau by each office as 
follows: 
1. List the symbol numbex·s of all security informants and confidential 
[ sources being paid under[Bureau authority (not SAC authority)Jfor 
[ services or expenses. If[the]confidential source has no symbol 
number, list his name. 
[ 2. Also list the symbol numbers of all security informants(not paid 
[ under Bureau. authority.] 
3, Set forth any comments concerning the present status of the informant 
coverage of the office, together with information concerning what actio~s 
are being taken to improve the security informant coverage. 
4. As a separate section of the semiannual letter, list under "Headquart 
City 11 and each resident a_gency all subversive organizations broken do~,:• 
into each division and unit thereof, such as· clubs, committees, and 
chapters. 
Under each unit the approximate membership, together with the symbol 
numbers and p0sitions of security informants affording coverage, should 
be se·t ou·t. Where no informant coverage exists or where coverage is 
provided by informants or sources who are not members, such factors shoulc. 
be shown relati-ve to each unit, 
Semiannual letters may include any additional pertinent information re 
informant coverage that may be helpful in over-all evaluation, such as 
informants in other divisions vrho are occasionally utilized and highly 
placed informants who furnish area-wide, national, or international 
information. 
Docld:32989529 1533 
22 
12-13-61 
