C 
( 
l ( 
' 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
e 
SECTION 107. SECURITY INFOR1"1".AHTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES .• 107D-F 
Except in espionage and f•oreign nationality matter-s where contact is 
naintained on a periodic basis dependent on circumstances, contact 
potential informants personally at least once every two weeks. 
Advise Bureau of progress being made at least every six ~onths. Sub­
mit letters (FD-401) concerning potential informants who .are not being 
paid on Bureau authorization on UAGB basis; include summary of infor~ 
mation furnished during past six months and certifications regarding 
stability and indoctrination against disclosure. Follo0 form in~icaied 
under§ 107L, item 3b, below, except those items concerning payments. 
Post record of all contacts with potential informants. 
During contacts with potential informants, if it develops_individual 
does not have necessary capabilities, discontinue efforts. 
Informants may raise a question concerning their position if it becomes 
knov;n publicly they are affiliated nith subversive organization. In 
such case, he may b~ told that his cooperation is matter of reco~d in 
FBI and if some question arises concerning his loyalty we will consider 
making facts of his cooperation known to his employer or to responsible 
individuals. • Before taking steps to advise anyone of potential infor-• 
mant's or informant's cooperation, obtain Bureau authority. 
From first interview with potential informant through development a·nd 
until discontinued, use extreme caution at all times to be certain ~e is 
not a plant. 
When potential· informant begins to furnish current information and 
otherwise qualifies for designation as informant, advise Bureau. 
This communication mus·t be personally initialed by SAG or ASAC 
acting in his absence. Individual's background must be thoroughly 
reviewed at this time, keeping in mind possibility of using inform­
ant as witness. If individual has any weaknesses, set forth safe­
guards being followed to insure security and prevent embarrassment 
to Bureau. 
E. BUREAU POLICY 
1. Development of military personnel 
Do not develop informants among military personnel on military reserva·­
tions, establishments, etc., unless specifically approved by Bureau. 
2. Contacts by designated Agents 
Contacts with informant or potential informant should only be made by 
Agent or Agents specifically designated to contact him. 
3. Divulging information to informant 
No information should be divulged to potential informant or informant 
concerning any of Bureaur s investigative activity other tlia n that which 
is essential to his proper operation. 
4. Recording investigative activity 
All investigative activity must be made matter of record in field· office 
files v.i. th all sources of information being completely identified.. Agents 
must not have and use informants kno~n only to individual Agents personally. 
[ [5. All informants and sources are to be debriefed on at least a monthly 
[ basis regarding their knowledge of narcotics activities.] 
F. Il'l°"DOCTRINATION, DIRECTION, .AND CONTROL OF INFORMA:NTS 
1. Caution against divulging relationship 
During initial development and consistently thereafter, impress upon 
informant absolute necessity that he refrain from divulging his rela­
tionship with Bureau. These instructions must be properly phrased to 
prevent possibility of Bureau's being accused of attempting to impose 
censorship. 
2. Developing additional background . 
During development of informant, additional data concerning h5.s back­
ground should be continuously obtained from informant. Be alert for 
data revealing he is mentally or emotionally unstable, or has some 
personal problem which would make him a risk. 
3. Indications of instability 
Im.~ediately furnish details of any indications of instability to Bureau, 
with recommendations as to informant 1 s continuance and comments as to 
any steps being taken to prevent embarrassment to Bureau. 
! NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1732 
5 
9-13-72 
