'"' 
( 
( 
107A - B 
!. . Di'.?INil'IOKS 
1. Secu~i~y informant 
Indivi~ual actively engaged in obt~ining and furnishing current infor-
mation on s0:urity[or inte1Jigence 1~atte~s exclusively for Bureau and whose 
identi~y must be protected. Such person should boa member or attend meetir.gs 
of a subversive organization, such as the Communist Party; or be in 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or espionage 
activities or intelligence activities in the U.S. on behalf of foreign 
principal, th:'!.t he is able to -obtain anc1: does provide current informatior. 
[ of value;[or furnish pertinent foreign intelligence data of value on a regular 
[ basis.] • 
2. Potential security informant· 
Ind.i·rid.ual in a position to become active in a subversive or(';anization 
or espion~ge or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
[ principal or can become closely associated therewith,[or i~. \n a position 
[ to secure pertinent foreign intelligence data,]and ·is mak~ ? affirmative 
effort through associations or contacts so that he can be • a position 
actively to ob.-t;ain and furnish current information to Bure.-., .. 
3. Double agent 
A specialized type of security informant; a person who is cooperating 
with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreign 
intelligence servic~ and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance, 
4. Confidential source 
An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available 
to him through his present position. Examples would be: bankers and 
telepr.cne company employees. These individuals make no concerted effort 
on ber.~lf of the Bureau but merely obtain ani furnish information readi:y 
available to them. 
B. SCURCES OF PCTF.NTIAL SECURITY INFORMANTS 
Informants should.be developed on all organizations and individuals that 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown that pote~tial 
informan·t;s may be obtained through alertness in the course of norn-:.1: investi­
gative activity. Li Ye in::.•·--r:,.a:r.·i; coverage de:i:ends for the most pi;:· upon 
ir..itiatiYe and reso1:1-rcefu~ - • :s of indiYigual Agen:ts and SACs .. Fo.::·· .. ssis i;anc•e 
in obtaining pote·ntial inf~•·:mants, the following is suggested: 
1, Evaluation of 
a. Complainants in security matters 
b. Persons inte~viewed in connection with·security cases 
~. Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of ~isaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial _hard­
ship, or other re-pudiation of par·ty loyalty 
d, Bureau applicants as possible informants 
e. Personal friends and contacts.of Special Agents and other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confi.den•l;ial sources, and contacts o-n con-
tinuous basis_ . 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
3. Review of reserve inc.ex 
4. Ascertain ·possibili tie-s of reactiYating former confidential informants. 
5. Deleted 
6. Re-view factionalism section of file on Communist Party, USA. 
7. Consultation-with present informants regarding indications of disaffection 
on tte part of Communist Party mem·bers. -They, of course, should not_ be 
informed as to the purpose of the inquiry. 
8. Review cf files on communist front organizations looking for ino.i ·:-:uals 
who ha;Ye been associated: with only one or two fronts or who atte:., only 
a few meetings of a fr~nt. Such inii7iduals frequently are inno~ of 
communist propensities, yet they ha-re a basis for cultivating the 
acquaintance of party members. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 • 1ti04 
3 
12-13-65 
