-92-
• .,.. you in the passage of fifteen years, that sense of shock 
remains? 
Johnson: . Right. Yes, sir. (Johnson, 6/18/75, p. 8) 
After the meeting, Johnson, who was responsible for writing the 
memorandum of the discussion, consulted.with a senior official on 
.the NSC staff to determine how to handle the President's statement 
in the memorandum and in the debriefing of the NSG Planning Board 
that followed each meeting: 
I suspect -- but no longer have an exact recollection 
that I omitted it from the debriefing. I also do not re­
call.how I handled the-subject in the memo of the meet­
ing, though I suspect that some kind of reference to the. 
President's statement was made. • (Johnson, 6/18/75, p. 7) 
·In his second appearance, Johnson reiterated that it was "quite like­
ly that it was handled through some kind of euphemism or may have 
been omitted altogether" (Johnson, ~/13/75, _ p .. 21)_. 1'( 
·k In 1960, Johnson was Director of the Planning Board Secretariat -­
third in command on the NSC staff .. He attendedNSC meetings to take 
notes on the discussions whenever one of the two senior NSC officials 
was absent. 
Johnson testified that the person with whom he consulted about the 
manner of recording the President's statement in the minutes was one 
of the two top NSC staff officials at that time: NSC Executive Secre­
tary James Lay or Deputy Executive Secretary Marion Boggs (Johnson, 
9/13/75, pp. 12-13). Johnson could not recall which of the two offi­
cials he had consulted, but he "inferred" that it must have been the 
"top career NSC staff person present" at the meeting where he heard 
the President's statement (Johnson, 9/13/75, p. 12). At both of the 
NSC meetings where the President and Johnson were present for a dis­
cussion of Lumumba -- August 18 and September 7 -- James Lay was ab­
sent and Marion Boggs served as Acting Executive Secretary. 
Marion Bogg's statement about his method of handling the situation 
described by Johnson is in accord with-Johnson's testimony: 
mt 50955 Docld.: 32423.')39 Page 338 
