RE: MICHAEL HALSEY BROWN 
On January O, 1965, Mrs. R. S. Lowrey, 1920 Awapuhi 
Stre&t, Honolulu, advised as follows: 
Mrs. S. H. Snodgrass, a uo~an in her early SO's, has 
resided ne2rt door at 1926 Awapuhi for at least 12 years. Mrs. 
Lowrey stated she has no idea of Mrs. Snodgrass' background and 
J does not know. if she is a divorcee or ~idow. She related that 
Mrs. Snodgra~s liveo•a quiet life, has a substantial home, and 
enjoys a good reputation in the community. She related that 
Mr$. Snodg~ass has a divorced daughter, Mrs. Brown, who is a 
local school teacher. Mrs. Brown formerly lived on Oahu Avenue 
and her two children, Mike and Leilani, have occasionally 
stayed wi:th the grandmother. Mrs. Lowrey stated she believes 
Leilani Brown is presently in school in England. Mike Brown, 
about 20 years of age, has recently returned to Honolulu to 
live with his grandmother. He has been in one of the branches 
of the armed services for some three years and is now attending 
the University of Ea,1aii .. Mrs. Lowrey stated Mrs. Snodgrass had 
expressed relief that her grandson had enrolled at the university, 
explaining that wh'?l?-he had graduated from high school h~ had 
not v,a.nted to e;o oil with his, schooling. 
On January 13, 1965, HN T-1 advised as follows: 
Dr. Doro"i::hy Brown has taught in the English Department 
of the University of Hawaii at Honolulu for at least 13 years. 
She is presently Assistant Professor at the university and 
resides in the Kalia Apartments. Mrs. Brown is a divorcee and 
has two children, Mike, aged 22, and Leilani, about 17. 
During the ea~ly 1950's Dorothy Brown resided on 
-campus with her two chi ld.ren. Mike was a large boy for his 
age and his mother found him a difficult problem as far as 
discipline was concerned. When he was some 14 years of age 
he was caught burglarizing the ROTC Armory on the campus. The 
following year he was sent to Arkansas to live with ·his maternal 
grandfather and finish high school there. Mrs. Brown has 
related in the past that Mike is fond of guns and has been a 
disciplinary problem and also experienced some trouble in the 
Army. Mike returned to Honolulu before the £all" semester of 
1964 and enrolled at the University of Hawaii as a fresl~aan 
intending to major in political sc.ience. In late October 1964 
the Associated Students of the University of Hawaii sponsored 
a political symposium featuring speakers of diverse polit::i.cal 
views including George Lincoln Rockwell, head of the American 
Nazi Party, a characterizatiofi oi which is appended hereto. 
3 
; 
I 
I I 
I 
