[ 
6B - D PART II 
c. 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
4. Each office must submit to the Bureau annually at least three suggestions 
for articles, identifying the suggested author, and briefly describing 
the nature of the suggested article. The article should no-t be prepared, 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any general or specific sub-
j,ect of law enforcement interest, including the following: 
a~ Better investigative or administrative methods and tec~niques of 
any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI National 
Academy graduates 
b. Improved or unusual equipment being used 
c. Complicated, unusual, and well-handled cases which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems and excellent police work 
d. Deleted 
e. Police and firearms training subjects 
f. Crime prevention articles from departments which have taken aggressive 
action to comba"!; j_uvenile delinquency 
go Transmit all material to the Bureau under the caption: 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research (Files and Communications Division) 
SPEECHES 
1~ The speefh program is the personal responsibility of the SAC, and the 
SAC or ASAC should handle principal commitments. If neither available, 
these can be handled QY an experi~nced and well-informed Agent 
approved for the commitment by the SAC or ASAC. Good judgment should 
dictate when a manuscript should be submitted to FBIHQ for approval in 
advance of a speaking路engagement, particularly in regard t~ radio and 
television路 appearances. 
I , 
2 It is not necessary to advise FBlHQ of each speaking engagement. Each 
office will maintain for a minimum of one year and one regular office 
inspection a control file in connection with acceptances and declinations 
of speech invitationso Each year on January 10th and on July 10th. ( 
each office will submit to FB;IHQ a statistical report of spe~king ., 
commitments handledo This will be divided into engagements by t~e SAC, 
the ASAC, and other Agent Supervisors; and will be further subdivided 
into speeches as well as radio, television, and Career Day appearances 
by these three groupso 
3o Each office should maintain a speech material file for路the use of路speakers. 
This should include Law Enforcement Bulletin items, intere~ting case 
material, magazine articles, research literature, newspaper clippings 
pertaining to law enforcement matters of interest, and i~ems of value_i~ 
connection with public appearances of Bureau repre~entativeso In addition 
to being maintained in current status, this speech material shou1d be 
indexed as to subject matter in the office fileso , 
D .. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
lo Write-ups of interesting cases may be: 
ao Requested by the Bureau 
bo Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
Co Suggested by other offices 
2o They are prepared concerning cases of: 
ao Major importance 
bo Public interest 
Co Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
do Novel investigations of human interest 
3o They are prepared: 
ao Double spaced 
bo Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
Co Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
do Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
fo In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
2 
8-27-73 
( 
hlW.8Al21 Dodd:32989529 Page 221-
