I 
I 
NW Btniti 
' l;t • • •• • • • ~ •. .:·.~ ::: it:· . 
• . ''.\ ·: .... ~~-· 
,. . -, . ~ .... 
WFO 105-8906 
JAFFE asks that t.d.s passport be amended al],.owing h:iri1 to travel 
in Communist China as a professional .f.\merican journalist and he understands 
that he will personally assume all the risks in such an u.ndertaking. 
If this request is not within thep:rP.ar of the Department of State to 
approve, he desires to knmv if the Department of St?,te would have any 
objection if he deposited his passport with the nearest Embassy and 
entered Communist China, assum:ing :all risks, as a private citizen. [g,.) 
His purpose in ,d.siting Communist China would be :in the 
capacity of a professional journalist for the 11Nation 11 magazine of 
.America and other American publications to write on what is taking place 
in Red Cbir.1,a today. He would also seek an interview with Red China 1 s 
leader MAO TSE-Tu'NG and other Communist officials. He would try to 
interview the eleven P.merlca.n fliers held by the Reds and the .lnnericans 
who have deflected to the side of the Reds. He would deport himself 
in the best interests of the U.S. and would provide information to 
his Govemnent upon his return. 
He has excellent reasons to believe that the Red Chinese 
government would allow him to enter their country as a journalist. During 
the Asian-A:f'rican Conference at Bandung, Indonesia, he obtained an interview 
,vith Red Cn:inese Premier GHOU-EN-1.t!.I through the good offices of Prime 
Minister U NU of Burma. He filed a full report of this interview vii th the 
American Embassy at Rangoon, Bu.nna on 5/20/55 and previously he had 
'informed the American Consul at Singapore of certain statements CHOU-EN-LAI 
made to him during the interview. The Red Chinese know that Prime Minister 
U NU thinks well of him. 
He was also told by one KANG MAO-CHAO, Counselor for Cultural 
Affairs at the Red Chinese Embassy :in New Delhi that he stood an excellent 
chance of being admitted to his countl'J) as 1111fy Premier was impressed by 
the way your story was handled. 11 KAl"IG MAO-CHAO added that also in his 
favor was the fact that CHOU-EN-LAI knew him as well as do others in his 
government. His request for admittance to Red China is presently being 
considered by the authorit:tes at PeJdng. 
.~ 1 l'- J 
JAFFE concluded his statement by relating that he hopes that 
in. making a decision the Department ,vill realize that it would be in the 
best interests of our Government and our people that an .American journalist 
be pennitted to visit Red China to report firsthand on the state of 
affairs there. 
An !pplication dated 7/31/52 at New York City for a passport 
by Mrs. J..t\FFE, then JOSEPHINE CLARK WINTER, reflects the following: 
- 4 -
137 
' r . 
[C. : 
.. 
' 
f i L 
l 
j 
1 ! j 
! I 
j 
I 
I • 
l 
f 
I 
