.. 
( 
( 
( 
SECTION l07esECURITY INFORMltNTS AND CONFI.I.A.L SOURC~S. 107K 
K. INFORMANT FILES 
1. Opening 
a. When active investigation is il;li tia ted regarding potenti.al informant 
or confidential source who is not subjec·t; of security-type file, 
open 134 file. 
b. If individual is subject of security case and af"t·er being :i,nterview!3d 
appears to have potential as informant, open separate ~34 file to 
follow informant development. In espionage and foreign nationality 
matters, existing file may be used if this is pra·ctic.al. 
c. Maintain individual files on all active informants as pending active 
files. 
2. Monthly administra·\;ive report 
Include files on potential informants and informants i.n tabulations and 
calculations of delinquencies in monthly administrative report.· 
3. Assignment and tickler cards 
Maintain assignment and tickler cards, but do not show true name of 
[ informant, [potential .informant, panel source or confidential sourc·e] 
on such cards. 
4. Subfiles 
a. Subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where 
subfile is necessary only in those ~nstances involving possible 
prosecution. File in this subfile original of each statement, 
whether pars onally written by informant or furnished orally: and 
reduced to writing by contacting l!.gent .- Staple executed form FD-306 
or channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items on form 
FD-306 to original of each such statement. 
b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration.of any 
portion of statements or notations thereon. 
5. Channelization 
Include excerpts from informant's statement in regular investigative 
case report when information of value is submitted. Form FD-306 may be 
used to disseminate this information to case file in lieu of channelizing 
memorandum if desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed fo~ 
channelization and staple one copy to each copy of informant's state-
ment being channelized. Channelization should be noted on origin.al 
FD-306 and all copies. 
6. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of 
See Manual of Rules·and Regulations. 
7. Correspondence 
Correspondence in security informant and potential security. informant 
matters should be strictly limited to administrative handling of informant 
and should not contai-n information more properly furnished under sub­
stantive case caption. 
8. 1'1.aintenance of files 
a. ~~intain all symbol number informant files, pending and closed, 
under lock and key under personal supervision of SAC, AS.l!.C, field 
supervisor, or responsible employee designated by SAC. 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in open 
files section, .provided the.re. is no discloi:;ure of.informant 1 s 
identity on statements. 
c. Maintain informant files so that all information furnished ~yin­
formant will be immediately available when needed. 
d. In addition, maintain these files so identities of cases in which an 
informant has furnish~d competent evidence can be obtained immediately by 
simply referring to file of informant and without extensive research. 
13 
6-14-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1130 
