13-00000 
. . 
-
. • 
nished him with any funds or money or compensated him directly or indirectly 
in any fashion, and Lee Harvey Oswald was never associated or connected 
directly or indirectly in any way whatsoever with the Agency. When I use 
the term "Agency," I mean the Central Intelligence Agency, of course. 
Representath·e FoRo. Does that include whether or not he was in the United 
States, in the Soviet Union, or anyplace? 
Mr. McCONE. Anyplace; the United States, Soviet Union, or anyplace. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. McCone, is that the affidavit you are going to su·r111y tht-­
Commission in connection with our request for it? 
Mr. McCoN~. Yes; this is the substance ·of the affida,·it which I will supply 
to you. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Chairman, I ask leave to mark that Exhibit 870 and have it 
introduced in evidence as soon as we receive it from Mr. McCone as a part of 
this record. 
The CHAIRMAN. It may be admitted. 
( Commission Exhibit No. 870 was marked for identification and receh-ed in 
_ evidence.) 
Mr. RANKIN. Would you tell us about your procedures in regard to having 
an agent or informer or any person acting in that type of capacity? Does that 
ha,·e to pass through your hands or come to your attention in the Ag~ncy? 
Mr. McCONE. No; it does not have to come through my personal hands. 
Mr. RANKIN. Without disclosing something tl\at might be a security matter, 
could you tell us how that is handled in a general way in the Agency? 
Mr. McCONE. Mr. Helms, who is directly responsible for that dh·ision of the 
Agency's activities as a DeputY' Director, might explain. Would that be 
permissible? 
Mr. RANKIN. Could we have him sworn then? 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes. 
The CHAIRMAN. Would you raise your right hand and be sworn. Do you 
solemnly swear the testimony you are about to give before this Commission 
shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you 
God? 
Mr. HELMS.· I do. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Helms, you heard the inquiry just directed to Mr. McCone. 
Could you answer the question directly? 
Mr. HELMS. Yes; we have a specific procedure which we follow in all cases 
where the Agency is in contact, for the purposes of acquiring intelligence or 
whatever the case may be, with an individual. We not only ha,·e a record of 
the individual's name, but we also usually get information of a biographical 
nature. We then check this individual's name against our record. At that 
point we make a de~ermination as to whether we desire to use this man or not 
to use him. It varies from case to case as to how many officers may be involved 
in approving a specific recruitment. May I go off the record? 
(Discussion off the· record.) 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Helms, did you have anything to do on behalf of your 
Agency with determining whether or not Lee Harvey Oswald was acting in any 
of the capacities I have described in my questions to Mr. McCone? 
Mr. HELMS. Yes; I did. 
Mr. RANKIN. Will you tell us what you did in that regard? 
J 
Mr. HELMS. On Mr. McCone's behalf, I had all of our records searched to see 
if there had been any contacts at any time prior to President Kennedy's assassi­
nation by anyone in the Central Intelligence Agency with Lee Harvey Oswald. 
We checked our card files and our personnel files and all our records. 
Now, this check turned out to be negative. In addition I got in touch with 
those officers who were in positions of responsibility at the times in question 
to see if anybody had any recollection of any contact having e,·en been sug­
gested with this man. This also turned out to be negative, so there is no ma­
terial in the Central Intelligence Agency, either in the records or in the mind 
of any of the individuals, that there was any contact had or even contemplated 
with him. 
121 
-; 
