'• 
l 
' l 1 
' 
l 
1 
I 
I 
lO?lJ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
SECTION 10:e SECURITY TIUORMANTS A.~D CONl<'I-TIAL SOURCES 
4. Four-month evaluation of informants not paid on Bureau authority 
If the inform:mt is not being paid on Bureau. au·tho:t•iza:tion, a communi­
cation must be trans:r:iitted ·l;o the Bureau ev-ery four mon·ths after the 
date of designKtion containing the same information set out above in 
subsection 3b except those items concerning payments. Recommendation 
of SAC regarding continuance of informant should also be set forth UACB. 
In espionage and foreign nationality cases comment is necessary regard.:i.ng 
only those applicable items in subsection 3b. 
5, Receipts . 
When payments are made to anyone for information or assistance on security 
matters, either on the SJ.Cls authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obtained in t'very instance in which it is possible to do so. [If a 
receipt cannot be obtained for a. particular payment,. complete circumstances 
should be set forth on the blue slip at the time reimbursement is claimed.) 
a. Roooipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if :i.t becomes necessary to introduce the receipts in evidence 
during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate ta other 
documents or files. 
b. Receipts should clearly show: 
1
1} Date on which payment was made • 
2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis 
3} Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for services 
or expenses where these items are pertinent 
(4) Name of Agent making payment 
( 5) 'Signature of person receiving the money 
c. [Receipts are not to be witnessed by another Agent. 
d. If necessary to make corrections on the receipts, such corrections 
must be initialed by the informant and not by the Agent.) 
[e,] When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of e_xpenses to the 
B11rea:u., they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, leaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
av-oid contact with the Acco fastener punch, The staples should. be 
placed in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on th~ 
receipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Ca~~ must 
be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clear·, shovr 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary • ·.erial 
contained in Bufiles. • 
6. Income tax returns 
a, .Informants who receive compensation for their services to the Bureau 
should. be advised that such compensation must be reported as income 
when filing an income tax return, . 
b, Since all informants are considered independent contraciors, the income 
they receive from tb.e Bureau is self-employment income but, sinoe the 
Bureau does not consider their activity as the carrying on of a trade 
or business, they may consider dispensing with the filing of a schedule 
C as part of form 1040 if they so desire. 
c, The informant's o,,m personal situation, however, should be taken into 
consideration as he may receive income from other sources as an inde­
pendent contractor which would require the deduction of self-employ­
ment tax, reg~rdless of any Bureau income he may receive. 
d, In considering the filing of a tax on self-employment income, such 
a return is based upop. net earnings from self-employment of $400 
or more. If an informant receives less than $400 from the Bureau 
and has no other self-employment income, this money in any even·t • 
is not subject to the self-employment tax. If the informant re­
ceives $4800 or more from outside employment subject to Social 
Security tax, again the self-employment tax requirements do not 
apply. 
e. Bureau income should be set forth under item 10 on page one of the . 
Federal income tax return, form 1040, as "Other Income" and explained 
under schedule H(3) on page three of the return as income received 
from other sources for personal services rendered throu~h a private 
enterprise or similar general term applicable to informant•s position 
and station in life, 
20 
10-13-61 
jw 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1531 
,. 
( 
