13-00000 
-3-
during the l98os agency offici:J.ls have withheld information clearly 
relevant to an understanding of the relationship of the agencies to 
individuals identified directly or'indirectly with the Kennedy assassination. 
Administrative and legislative changes encouraged such non-disclosure--notably 
President Ronald Reagan's 1982 classification order, legislation of 1984 
totall.J exempting CIA "operational" tiles from disclosure, and legislation 
of 1986 authorizing the FBI to withhold and deey the existence of FBI 
informant files. Section 6 dovetaila FOIA'a exemptive proviaions but, 
at the a&11e time, introduces a stricter non-disclosure standard to req,uire 
release unless "the threat to the 11111.tary detenae 1 intelligence operations 
or co~uct of foreign relations of the Um.ted States posed b7 its disclosure 
i■ of such gravity that it outweighs any public interest in its disclosure." 
Hy akepticiam about agency practices in withholding documents, moreover, 
is baaed on IIIY experiences aa a freq,uent user of the FOIA. I recognize 
that this is not the proper forum tor reviewing how federal agencies have 
processed FOIA requests but think the following examples shed light on 
whether the FOIA, and ita provision■ accepting agenc7 discretion, can be 
expected to ensure full and reasonable disclosure. 
In 1980, I filed an FOIA request !or the Official and Confidential 
File of former FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover and in 1983 received approximately 
6,000 heavily redacted pages of this 171700 page file • .Exercising my right 
to appeal these withholdings, I eventua.11.y (in 1985) receiTed approxi.aately 
2 1000 additional. documents. Granted the right of a second appeal, at this 
time I offered a detailed fold~r by folder challenge, arguing that much 
of the wi thhelu information vas already in the public domain and further 
that sine~ the former FBI director had maintained in his office derogatory 
infonnati,4 on presidents, members of Congress, and other prominent 
persor.a.11. ties the question of what use had been made of this information 
required its release. These arguments proved somewhat convincing and in 
1989 the FI:iI released approximately 151 000 pages including information 
formerly redacted in the earlier processed releases. 
'l'he enclosed Fortae document (see Appendix A) was one of the documents 
released to me in 1989 1 but withheld entirely both in 1983 and 1985. 
When withholding this document (and five others pertaining to the same 
matter), the FBI had originally claimed that its release., would reveal 
FBI sources and methods and violate personal privacy rights. Iet, Fortae 
harl not been acting as a FBI Criminal Informant or Security Informant 
when concerting with FBI Aasistant Director Cartha Der..oach in 1966 and 
the withheld information records Forts.s's willingness to service the 
political and bureaucratic interests of.President ~ndon Johnson and 
FBI Director J. F.dgar HooTer. 
Thia example, because the FBI had evaluated the same document three 
times, offers insights into the c:-1 teria employed to deey the release 
of records. And while the agency ultimately decided to disclose, this 
, , • 
