[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
107K-L SECTION 107 .• ECURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFID-Ili..L SOURCES. 
L. 
9. 
10. 
J_l. 
Usi:· of informant by Department - filing correspondence re 
Fr:,m time to time, Department expresses interest in using particular 
informant for testifying when he becomes available as witness. Place 
cop·::es of all correspondence of this type in informant's file. 
Occasionally such correspondence may be voluminous and apply to more 
than one informant. In those cases, summarize information· concerning 
each informant and place summary in appropriate file. 
l"orm FD-238 
:!!'orm FD-238 (printed on pink paper) is used in ·security informant and · 
pot,Jntial security informant files in nature of table of contents or 
ir.(lex to show vrhere in file particular data can be found. This form is 
to be kept as top document in informant file and is .not to be serialized. 
If particular section of form is not applicable, note such thereon. 
Bulky material submitted by informant 
Where informant or source submits bulky material other than statement 
and same pertains to specific investigative matter, bulky material may· 
be filed in investigative case file, together vtlth copy of form F-D~306 
or channelizing memorandum. File original form FD-306 or channelizing 
memorandum ;in subfile of informant or sou~ce and note thereon file and 
serial number where bulky material is located. 
C 
PA YMElNTS TO INF ORMAN TS 
1. No gif·l;s to inf·ormants 
a. Gifts should not be given to informants. 
b. Relationship between .Agents and informants shall be maintained on 
businesslike basis. •• 
c. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance 
companies and request assistance regarding payments of .money, gifts, 
or products of such companies to informants. 
2. S.AC authority 
a. When deemed necessary and expedient to expend money to develop in­
dividual as informant to obtain information concerning security , 
matters which is not otherwise obtainaple or to advance expense money (, 
to obtain such information, Sll.C may approve payments up to $400 a.:i;i.d 
totaling not more than $400 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of number 
of payments. This applies only to individuals who have neve~ been 
regularly pa.id for services or expenses on Bureau authorization. 
b. Individual who is paid on SAC authority should not be described in 
correspondence as informant or source who is being paid on a "regular 
basis II or on "Bureau authorization. 11 
c. Blue slip reclaiming payments authorized by S_AC roust cl-early and 
accurately explain circumstances and summarize informati·on obtained 
so Bureau will be in posi ti"on to pass intelligen·l;ly on such matters. 
d. Prior Bureau authority must be obtained to make any additional payment 
to individual who has received payments totaling $400. Once individual 
has been paid $400 and it appears he will furnish information on 
regular basis, recommendation should be roa~e to Bureau to pay him on 
"regular basis." _ 
[e . .Ul newly developed security informants are to be paid under SAC 
authority for the first six months unless unusual circumstances 
exist. If additional funds under S.AC authority are necessary during 
this period, submit request accompanied by detailed justifi~ation of 
past expenditures.~ 
3. Payments on a regular basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a regular basis, obtain s pacific Bureau authorization. 
b. In requesting this authorization, use form FD-401: 
(1) Membership 
List current membership and position held in any subversive 
group. 
(2) .Amount paid for services and expenses 
List by the month or week. Initial justification letter should 
set forth amount, if any, ever paid under SAC authority. 
(3) Number of activities and persons on whom coverage is.provided 
List nu...rr,ber and type of meetings attended and other activities ( 
and number of persons on whom informant furnishes coverage and 
their importance. • 
14 
9-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1729 
