13-00000 
1 .. 
MEMORANDUM 
March 20, 1996 CIA HAS NO OBJEC-TION ro 
DICI.AsSIFICATION AND/OR 
REI l!A8E OF THIS DOCUMENT To: Review Board 
cc: David Marwell 
CIA Team 
From: 
Subject: Board Guidelines on 
' . 
The Staff understands the Review Board to ·accept the following general guidelines on 
the release of true names of CIA officers: 
When the true name of a 0A officer (i.e. past or present employee of CIA) appears in a 
document, the J3oard will bring to its review a presumption that the true name will be 
released. In order to overcome this presumption of release, CIA must provide evidence 
demonstrating that release o.f the name would be hannful. In 9rder to meet its burden 
of proving harm, CIA must tailor ~e evidence to satisfy one of the three categories 
identified in Part I (below). However, when the name of an officer is of such 
importance that the public interest would not be served in postponing a name, the 
Board may release the true name consistent with the principles identified in Part II 
(below). 
Part I. Categories of Officers. 
1. Living officers. For living (present or former) officers, 0A must prove that 
. (a) the officer is living outside_ the United States (or reasonably is expected to 
reside or travel outside the United States in. the foreseeable future); (b) the officer 
is either working or is retired under cover; and (c) the officer objects to the 
release of his or her true name. If CIA satisfies this burden, the Board 
presumptively (see Part II below) will release a pseudonym and postpone the 
officer's true name until the year 2010. 
2. Where current status of former officer is unknown. Where CIA has been 
unable to contact the former officer because his or her location is unknown, CIA 
must present a good faith showing that reasonable attempts have been m_ade to 
locate the officer. If the Board is convinced that CIA has·made a good faith 
showing that it was unable to locate the former officer, the Board will postpone 
the true name wttil June 1, 1997. However, the Board may postpone the true 
