13-00000 
* there were two major releases of Agency records (August 
1993 and August 1994)of approximately 227,000 pages; 
* joint HRG/DO teams reviewed additional assassination 
related collections at National Archives (Warren 
Commission), the SSCI (Church Committee and the Ford 
Presidential Library (Rockefellow Commission) plus 
numerous referrals from other federal agencies (FBI, 
State, Army, etc.). 
Due to delays in the appointment of its members and the 
time required to hire and clear a staff, the ARRB did not 
actually begin reviewing documents until May 1995. It became 
clear in immediately that the ARRB would require the release 
of far more information than the Agency had released in the 
1992-94 review. In mid-1995 HRG began a re-review of the 
previously released sanitized documents: 
* approximately 80% of the 227, 000 pages release in 
1993-94 contained deletions 
* resources were taken from other projects and added 
to JFK project to meet Board's monthly deadlines. 
II. The JFK Act and the ARRB 
Mandated review and declassification projects can be 
two-edged swords. The JFK Act forced the Agency to review 
records that should have been opened years ago. The legal 
requirement to presume release, backed up by an independent 
review, resulted in the opening of documents that clearly 
would not have been released under other progr~ms. However, 
the Act and the Review Board created by the Act imposed un­
realistic deadlines, inflexible standards and procedures 
which created _a major drain on all Agency review resources 
and had an over-all negative -effect on the Agency's release 
program. 
Unrealistic Deadlines: The release dates set by the 
Act did not take into account the start-up time and cos~s 
(searches, inventorying and indexing) of a project of this 
magnitude, nor the time it would then take for a page-by­
page review and sanitization of classified documents. For 
example, initial indexing of the collection was done on a 
.crash basis using overtime employees and resulted in a 
flawed database. The revising, re-indexing and updating of 
that database took several thousand man-hours and continues 
today. 
Mandated Procedures: NARA's and ARRB's interpretation 
of the law created a time-consuming, labor-intensive review 
process that meant an inordinate amount of time was spent by 
