3 
4. The Special Group Investigation of Reported Castro Assassination Plots 
by Cuban Exiles. On June 10, 1964, Helms infonned McCone by memorandum that 
Agency,,..officials had learned of several plots of Cuban exiles to assassinate 
Castro and other Cuban leaders. (Memorandum, Helms to McCone, June 10, 1964.) 
Several of the p;ots, according to the memorandum, involved "people apparently 
associated with the Mafia". Reportedly the exiles had offered people associated 
with the Mafia $150,000 to perfonn the deed. In his memorandum, Helms stated that 
the sources of the reports were parties to the plots and in submitting the in­
fonnation to Agency officers were presumably seeking legal immunity should the 
plots succeed. (Id., p. 1.) 
. - Helms' memorandum, however, made no mention of any· of the CIA assassination 
plots against Castro.* 
(Footnote continued from previous page.) 
In a memorandum the day after President Johnson's decision to stop CIA-controlled 
sabotage operations, McCone stated: "the real issue to be considered at the 
meeting and by the President was a question of whether we wished to implement 
the policy (outlined in certain memoranda) or abandon the basic objective of bring­
ing about the liquidation of the Castro Communist entourage and the elimination 
of Communist presence in Cuba and thus rely on future events of an undisclosed· 
nature which might accomplish this objective". (Memorandum by McCone, April ·8, 
1964, p. _.) 
In the context of the Spec1al Group's discussion, McCone's use of the words "liqui­
dation" and "elimination" appears to be another example of inartful language. A 
literal interpretation of these words leaves one with the impression that assassina­
tion was contemplated. But the context of the discussion does not bear out such an 
interpretation. Thus in specifying what J:!e_meant by "future events of an undisclosed 
nature"- McCone pointed to "extreme economic distress caused by a sharp drop in 
sugar prices", and "other external factors". (Id, p. 8.) McCone testified that 
such references as the "elimination" or "liquidation" of the Castro regime did not 
refer to assassination. (Mc.Cone, p. __ .) 
**Moreover, according to Bundy, no one from the CIA or anyone else informed him at 
the meetings that "in earlier years there had been a relationship with ... persons 
allegedly involved with the criminal syndicate-·-in order to accomplish the assassi­
nation of Fidel Castro". (Bundy, p. 71.) 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 239 
