13-00000 
COPY COPY COPY 
CONFIDENTIAL 
April 19, 1959 
Summary of conversatio~ between The Vice President and 
Fidel Castro: 
. When Castro arrived for the conference he seemed 
somewhat nervous and tense. He apparently felt that he had 
not done as well on "Meet the Press" as he had hoped. He 
was particularly concerned about whether he might have irri­
tated Senator Smathers for the comments he made with regard 
to him. I reassured him at the beginning of the conversa­
tion that "Meet the Press" was one of the most difficult pro­
grams ·a public official couldgo on and that he had done ex­
tremely well -- particularly having in mind the fact that-he 
had the courage to go-on in Eng1,.ish rather than to speak 
through a translator. 
The subjects we discussed were no different from 
those on which he had made public statements on several 
other occasions. A brief sunnnary, however, might be of in­
teres·t, particularly- in view of the comments i: made with re­
gard to the positio~s he took. 
I sugges·ted at th.e outset that while I understood some 
reasonable time might elapse before it would be feasible to 
have ·elections· it would nevertheless be much better from his 
viewpoint if he were not to s·tate so categorically that it 
would be as long as four years before elections would be held. 
I urgea him to state his pos·ition as being in favor of having 
• elections at the earlies·t possible date and that four years 
would be th.e ·maximum amount of• time that would elapse before 
elections were scheduled. He went into considerable detail 
as he had in public with regard to the reasons for not hold­
ing elections, emphasizing particularly that "the people did 
not want elections· because the elections in the pas·t had pro­
duced bad government." 
He used the same argument that he was simply reflect-. 
ing the will of the people i.n justifying the executions of war 
criminals and bts overruli.ng the acquittal of Batista's avia..,. 
tors. In fact he seemed to be obsessed with th.e idea that 
it was· his respoJ?-Sibility· .to carry out the will of th.e people 
COPY COPY COPY 
