- 8 -
A Liechtenstein Anstalt which an Agency nominee .established 
using a reliable but nonwitting Liechtenstein lawyer as a 
resident a.gent. The Anstalt: was used to,purchase a property 
in a European country from which an audio operation was 
mounted against an installation of a Communist country. 
Upon conclusion of the operation, the property will be sold 
by the Anstalt and the proceeds returned to CIA via its 
nominee. 
Requiring less elaborate commercial administration because of 
the nature of Agency tasks performed are 31 legally incorporated 
companies which are directly managed by Agency Headquarters specialists 
operating in alias as signatories to the company bank accounts. Each 
of these companies generally have a capitalization of $5,000 or less 
and are domiciled in the offices of cleared and witting attorneys. 
No commercial books of account are kept, and in the event of a tax 
audit the Agency has to brief the auditing authority. Depending on 
use, administration may be as simple as maintaining bank accounts and 
filing annual franchise taxes or more extensive as reqaired when 
obtaining Employee Identification numbers, paying personnel, with-
. holding taxes and.Social Security, and filing tax returns. Examples 
of this type of Headquarters-managed proprietary corporation are: 
A Nevada proprietary corporation domiciled at the offices of 
a California law form. Three members of the firm serve as 
Agency nominee stockholders, directors, and officers for 
the proprietary which h~lds title to two aircraft used by 
the Agency for flight training and testing avionics equipment. 
In this case, only administration is required to maintain a 
bank account, file a franchise tax, and coordinate with the 
law firm. 
Although not proprietary corporations, but proprietaries in the 
sense of being Agency-owned and administered, are 64 ostensible sole­
proprietorships. The Agency establishes and registers these sole­
proprietorships in the name of fictitious persons and opens a bank 
NW .'.)0955 Docid: 3242:3.532 Page 13 
