----.. , ... 
The Attorney General. 
Eont of this infornm.tion is obtained from paid 
informants, froB other law enforcement officcro~ from alert 
oitizcnc, and from court-approv0d electronic survcillm1cos 
installed under the provisionn of Title III of tho Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Dtreets Act of 1968. 
Uone of i•t, houevor, is intellieencc for intelligence• s 
sake. The experience of the FBI over the years has sholm that 
criminal syndicates exist for tho sole purpo00 of conducting 
illegal operations antl that anyono belonging to them may 
reasonably be presumed to be engaged in one or more of theso 
activities. The:i;.-efore, our investigationo of the organized 
underlrorld are not aimed at developing general nonsp0c:!.fic 
do.ta but at eotablishing which cri~inul violationG ita memboro 
arc engaged in and then proving these violations in a court 
of luw. 
Obviously 9 not every en.so opened, every lea.a. follo1rnd, 
or ovcry bit of information received is going to uincJ. up in 
Federal court. On the contrary, much of thi:3 muteriul rela:bcs 
to offenses outoidc tho investieativo juriso.iction of tho 
FBI. ~lllen such is the ease, 11e immediately d.:loocrr:,innto ·tho 
inform,ation to tho appropriate Federal, state, or local agcncyo 
As a result, il1f'ormution uncovered by tho FBI tluring the pa$t 
fiv0 yea.rs alone han enabled the recipient agencies to make 
more than 17,000 organized crime arrests; confiscate over 
:,;151,000,000 worth of illicit <lrugs and narcotics, ::)9$000,000 
worth of cush, property, 't'roaponn, and imeering po.rapherno.lia, 
and , .. '.6,000,000 uorth of counterfoit billn; and assecs tax 
liens against , .. ;19 ,ooo ,ooo 1mrth of proper·ty arising out of 
Federal gambling cason. 
In addition, a considerable ,r;a,rtion of the organized 
crime intelligence information uovelo90a by tho FBI in for­
warded to the various Federal Dtrike Forces coordinating 
racket investigations throughout the country and to tho 
criminal Division of the Deyartmcnt, which has entered thio 
information in its computerized data bank called unackctoer 
l:'rofilc. 11 
- 2 -
~ 3832:ti Docld:32989£27 Page 251 
