13-00000 . 
-5-
wiretap authorization question cannot be resolved. 
The heavily redacted Gruneval~ fileE- further disclosed that Grunewald 
became the subject in 1953 of a third FBI wiretap. In 1952, a House 
Committee held public hearings on the subject of influence peddling that 
centered on Grunevald's a.ativities, among others. '?bin inquiry proYed 
embarraasing to the Truman Administration and vas exploited by the Republicaaa 
during the 1952 presidential and congressional. campaigns. In 1953, the 
nev Rep~lican-controlled House revisited this issue. Particularly interested 
in Grunevald, the so-called Kean Committee sought assistance from the 
Justice Department. The heavily redacted records (see Appendix C) 1 hovever, 
preclude anavers to the questions as to vhy concurrent with this congressional 
inquiry Attorney General Herbert Brovnell had requested and authorized 
this viretap and vhether the Justice Department's assistance to the Committee 
included information learned from this wiretap. (I have only appended a 
summaey of one FBI report to the Attorney General, based on this wiretap • 
. TJ;ie released transcripts of this 19.;3 wiretap• in contrast to those released 
to me involTing the 1941 and 194.5 taps, were heaTily redacted-the FBI 
withheld on personal privacy grounds the names and intercepted conYers~tioDB 
of Grunevald's telephone partners, rendering the released transcripts 
virtually incomprehensible and of minimal research value.) 
I have gone into detail oa the Fortas an.:: Gruaevald matters as I 
th➔.nk they offer iaeights into the processing of FOIA requests, an 
issue central to these hearings. It has been my experience that the 
"culture" of the intelligence agencies encou.i ages agency officials to 
interpret the FOIA exemptive provisions broadly but also that more s~ni.or 
agency officials rill release even embarrassing information in those 
instances when their decisions are potentially subject to c~itical scrutiny. 
The Reviev Board p.:-ocedure promotes this needed accounta;_ .li ty. At the 
same time, the Bo:·.rd' s independence can unde:-cut public suspiciona that 
cl.aimed 11a.tioaal security or privacy justifications are a mask to preclude 
full disclosure. Surely now, thirty years after President Kennedy's 
assassination and with the end of the Cold War1 ve should be able to 
assure the public that relevant Kennedy assassination records are neither 
secreted nor vithheld for bureaucratic reasons. 
While I do·.:."~t that the rlease of the Kennedy aasa.ss'i.nation records 
will conclusively resolve the question "vho killed Kennedy," I am convinced 
that the procedures outlined in S.J. Res-. 282 '11111 undercut suspicions that 
records documenting a government conspiracy are being purposefully withheld. 
Release ot the Kenn1;.;~ ueassioation recorda, moreover, '11111 service other 
significant research interests of the scholarly community. Let me conclude 
by briefly list some of these non-asea1Ssioation-related questions: (1) the 
liaison relationship betveen the FBI and the CIA before and after the 
assesination; (2) the liaison relationship between the FBI and the Secret 
