The reference to "direct positive action" is ambiguous and can 
be subject to a number of different interpretations, including a t 
question suggesting exploration of assass.ination. * However, it is clear 
that at most a question was being asked. Moreover, assuming that "direct 
positive action" meant killing, it is significant that shortly after assassi­
nation plots were begun, the CIA Deputy Director told the Special Group that 
such action was "beyond our capabilities." 
* Testimony varied as to the meaning of the phrase "direct positive action" 
and General Cabell's response in the November 3, 1960 memorandum. 
Gray testified that the phrase "di;ect pr;.sitive action" could be taken 
to include assassination, but he did not know whether Mr. Merchant intended 
to refer to assassination or not. (Gray, 7/9, p. 9), 
Parrott, the author of the memorandum, testified that, although he had 
no recollection of the November 3, 1960 meeting, it was his opinion, based 
on the context of weekly Special Group meetings and discussion in the Fall of 
1960, that this discussion centered on the possibility of a palace coup, as 
opposed to a paramilitary operation mounted from outside Cuba; General Cabell 
was indicating that "we simply do not have agents inside of Cuba to carry out 
this kind" of a coup. (Parrott, pp. 19-21) Parrott also testified that the 
phrase "direct positive action" was not a euphemism, and that he did not 
employ euphemisms in Special Group records, except for references to the 
17 
President. (Parrott, pp. 19-21). We discuss in greater detail at pp. __ , ( 
• __ , and __ other ambiguous phrases in minutes and memoranda drafted by t:{_ (J A () 
Parrott. iHfr~/ 1.,,,, 
Bissell testified that he found it ''difficult to understand" that General \;?r),dt?/! 
Cabell would have told the Special Group that it was beyond the CIA's capa- If 
bilities to take "direct positive action" (if that referred to assassination)CJ 
in light of Bissell's assumption that General Cabell was informed of the CIA/ . 
underworld assassination effort. (Bissell, 7/17, pp. 15-18). • 
Mr. Merchant was unable to testify because of ill health and orders of 
his physician. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 117 
