13-00000 ~,.,.,,,#_-;.:.;.:.;, 
-
slowly. It wasn't going at a high rate of speed, so that he had perfect oppor­
tunity to do it. 
Now, some people have raised the question: Why didn't he shoot the Pres!~ 
dent as the car came toward the storehouse where lie was working? 
The reason for that is, I think, the fact there were some trees between his 
window on the sixth floor and the cars as they turned and went through the 
park. So he waited until the car got out from under tile trees, and the limbs, 
and then he had a perfectly clear view of the occupants of the car, and I 
think he took aim, either on the President or Connally, and I personally believe 
it was the President in view of the twisted mentality the man had. 
But he had given no indication of that-we had interviewed him, I think, 
three times. Of course, our interviews were predicated to find out whether he 
had been recruited by the Russian intelligence service, because they frequently 
do that. 
Representative Booos. And had he been? 
Mr. HOOVER. He had not been, so he said, and we have no proof that he was. 
He had been over there long enough but they never gave him citizenship in 
Russia at all. • I think they probably looked upon him more as a kind of a 
queer sort of individual and they didn't tr'nst him too strongly. 
But just the day before yesterday information came to me indicating that 
ther~ is an espionage training school outside of Minsk-l don't know whether 
it is true-and that he was trained at that school to come back to this country 
to become what they call a "sleeper," that is a man who will remain dormant 
for 3 or 4 years and in case of international hostilities rise up and be used. 
I don't know of any espionage school at Minsk or near Minsk, and I don't 
know how you could find out if there ever was one because the Russians won't 
tell you if you asked them. 
They do have espionage and sabotage schools in Russia and they do have 
an assassination squad that is used by them liut there is no indication he had 
any association with anything of that kind. 
Representative·Boooe. Now we have some people, including this man's mother, 
talk about Oswald havi,ng been an agent of the Government of the United States. 
I thin1' his inother mentioned the. CIA ; she has made these statements publicly 
for money, apparently. 
Mr. HooVEB. Yes; she has. 
Representative Boooe. Just for the purpose of the record, I think it would be 
well if you would comment on that, Mr. Director. 
Mr. HOOVER. Of course, we have interviewed his mother and his wife, and 
all his relatives, and everybody that he is known to have associated with. His 
mother I would put fu a category of being emotionally unstable. She has· 
been around the country making speeches, and the first indication of her 
emotional instability was the retaining of a lawyer that anyone would not 
have retained if they really were serious in trying to get down to the facts.· 
But sh~ has been in New York City; she has been in Chicago; I think other 
parts of the country, always speaking for money. 
Now, that kind of an individual is the type we have seen over the years, 
who will say almost anything to draw a crowd. Just to. be able to say some­
thing ·sensational. Many times we have gone out to such people and asked 
them specifically, "Now, what is your basis· for this?" And they will say, 
"Well, I just had a feeling that that was true, so I said it." 
She has never made that statement to us,- but we have many other instances 
where that kind of statement is made. They don't have the iegal evidence that 
you must have if you are going to" take any positive action. I would put very 
little credence in anything that his mother said. 
I think his wife was a far more reliable person in statements that she made, 
so far as we were able to ascertain, than ·his mother. I think the mother had 
in mind, naturally, the fact she wanted to clear her son's name, which was 
a natural instinct, but more importantly she was ·going to see how much· money 
she could make, and I believe she has made a substantial sum . 
. Representative Booos. And the allegations she has made about this man being 
an agent either of the CIA or the FBI are false? 
Mr. HooVE&. Well, I can certainly speak for the FBI that it is false, and I 
105 
