13-00000 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
CASTRO'S SPEECH - cont'd 
But, says the Cuban premier, the "shot has backfired." 
Alluding to statements made earlier in the week by physicians 
at Parkland Hospital, Castro claims that no one in a posi­
tion to do so has said whether one or two bullets were used 
to kill the late President. He declared "they cannot estab­
lish which are the entry and exit wounds,"implying that more 
than one assassin was inv-olved and that the President was 
struck both from in front and behind. • -
In sum, while Castro obviously was well briefed and went 
to some length to select "evidence" proving the guilt of do­
mestic reactionaries in the United States (conversely clear­
ing himself of any involvement), nothing he said indicates 
advance knowledge of the crime or encompasses more factual 
data than can be presumed to have been gleaned from the press. 
The balance of the 27 November speech, the part which 
castro told his listeners comprised the address he originally 
intended to deliver, was devoted to a somewhat rambling as­
sessment of Cuba's economic health. It can be summed up for 
the most part with the quote: "Things are progressing in our 
country and they are going well, despite the obstacles, de­
spite the hurricane .... " As he has done before, castro blamed 
the sloth and ineptitude of the Cuban bourgeousie for the 
"m~smanagement, lack of cmcern for expenditures, by lack of 
concern not only for the quantity but also the quality of what 
we produced" ·immediately after the fall of Batista. He re­
viewed the "tremendous ideological battle ... it was a battle 
between ideas.and theories ... " within the regime during its 
first two years i_n power, said that the government officials 
had become too "argumentative," and admitted that for a time 
the regime had been incapable of compensating for the loss of 
trade with the non-Communist world. Today, he boasted, Cuba 
"can trade with any country in the world; we can offer an ad­
vantageous exchange because we no longer have to sell sugar to 
Japan, England, Spain, France and most of the countries with 
which we traded, take their dollars and use them to pay the 
_Yankee imperialists." Instead, Cuba can plow back_ into its in­
ternal development revenue derived from foreign trade, and de­
vel~p to the maximum the use of those natural resources which 
are in demand. 
Attempts to bar Cuba from the world sugar trade, he said, have 
resulted only in increasing the price of sugar so that the Cubans 
--though exporting less~-are able to realize proportionately_greater 
profits from what they do sell and more than break even. "Wei have 
been able to get wonderful prices, and we have sold sugar for 1965 
for approximately 10 cents. We have made· sales for 1966 at approxi­
mately 10 cents." Though the Cuban sugar growers will be affected 
in some measure for several years by the attempts of nonbloc states 
to juggle sugar prices, "we shall be in a position /I970 or-1TJ 
to resist any price decrease in the sugar produced 'In the cpa'Ital­
ist world." By then, "we shall be in a position to surpass the 
IO-million-ton figure in sugar production .... " 
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
