-
SECRET/SENSITIVE - 5 -
In all cases of surveillance, photographs of the subject and his contacts 
were taken. Further, the identity of the contact was also ascertained and 
reported to headquarters. No surveillance was ever placed on a Congressman, 
Senator, Judge or Justice or other public figyre except the newsmen previously 
mentioned. ~lr. Bre1•;er believes that there 1vere no cases of surveillance 
undertaken by his Unit which did not involve either (1) a threatened security 
leak· to newsmen, or (2) a potential security violation, except Project 
PARAGON. 
The records kept on surveillances include the letters assigning the surveil­
lance to the Unit, the agents' logs, photographs taken and the final report 
of each project. Thi.s information was all sent to Headquarters. The Field 
Office would also retain copies but never made any use of these files. 
Break-Ins: 
},h•. Brewer's Surveillance Unit was only involved in one break-in in connection 
with Project SIESTA, involving a former employee living with a suspected 
Castro sympathizer. A photographic studio, jointly operated by the employee 
and her Cuban boy friend, ,ms broken into. This didn I t bother Brewer, as 
there was strong evi.Jence suggesting a possible security violation. Further, 
the suspected pair 1v:1s soliciting passport photo business at CIA,which 1•,ould 
give them informatio;1 about the travels of CIA agents. A second break-in 
\•;as effected by Ande1:son Associates (a CIA proprietary) in Project SIESTA. 
Brewer doesn't knoh' i\·ho headed up Anderson Associ'.,tcs. He believes that 
Ralph True, Joe Langon and Don Connor may have hac'. sorr.e connection with it. 
Mr. Brewer's Surveillance Unit was disbanded in June or July of 1972. Brevr---r 
is not sure 1•:hy the Unit \\'as disbanded. The Washington Field Office still does 
training surveillance and surveillance of defectors. There h2ve been no in­
stances (to Bre111er' s kno,vleclge) of potential employee security leaks since the 
Surveillance Unit wa5 disbanded. 
Activity Hith Dissident Groups 
On three occasions (in 1969, 1970 and Hay 1971} the CIA participated 1vith the 
1'/asl~ington police in monitoring peace and anti-1var demonstrations. In each 
r::,C:, a re uest 1·1as made by the Washingt011 Police Department (1'!PD), through 
\.._,.@1. for assistance. TI1c Washington Field Office of CIA 
furnished six vehicles Kith communications gear and men to operate the gear. 
Mr. Brewer believes that two CIA agents and one police officer occupied each 
car. (More CIA agents than police were utilized, as i,lPD didn I t have the neces­
sary m:rnpo,,er.) The only purpose of this operation ,\·as to monitor the move­
ments of the cro1•:ds. There 1-.ras no attcmnt to penetrate any dissident ornani­
za tion or to photograph the crowds. The· CIA agents invo'l ved in the i!ay 1, 19 71, 
operation carried police ID's. CIA also provided a fully-staffed ccrnmunicu­
tions center at 1--n)D to receive communications from th·~ cars. This provided 
r-l?D a second radio frequency and freed ;.1pJ I s 01,n chrrnncls for other police 
business. 
SECRET/SE~SITIVE 
NW 50955 Docld:32203834 Page 10 
I 
I r t 
I 
I l 
f 
I l 
