13-00000 . 
I am a professor of history at Marquette Unive~sity, specializing 
in U.~. intelligence and surveillacce policy, and have published extensively 
on matters relating to the history of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
(FBI). As a consul.tant in 1975 t.o the Senate Select ColD!!li. ttee on Intelligence 
Activities (the so-called Church Committee), I researched classified and 
nonclassified records deposited at the Truman, 3iser.hower 1 Kenned;(, and 
Johnson presidential libraries and since 1978 have filed numerous Freedom 
Qf Information Act (FOIA) requests for FBI records. 
I welcome this opportunity to testify on S.J. Res. 282, the Assaaaiaa.tion 
Matcri"&la Disclosure Act of 1992 1 and the question it raises: Shoul.d Congress 
create a special Review Board and authorize it to release or postpone· the 
releas~ of relevant Government records? 
There are precedents for legislating procedures gonrning the release 
of "Government records relevant to the assassination of President John F. 
Kennedy," most notably the Freedom of In!ormat.ion Act of 1966, as amended 
in 197~, mandatine the release of anci stipulating t~e exe~ptions for «ithhol.::.i~; 
agency records •.. The congressional response to the so-called Nixon-.:iampson 
agreement of 1974 offers a further precedent. Rejecting former President 
Richard Nixon's claimed right to retain exclusive control over the records 
pertaining to his presidency, including the right to destroy the sc-called 
Oval Office tapes, Congress rescinded ttis agreement, cr~ated the 3rowne~l 
Co~.mission, and e!la.cted the Presidential Records Act of 1978. Presidential 
records were public records, and not a president's personal property, 
Congress affirmed when defining the criteria to govern the disposition 
and release of all presidential records. 
As in the case of the Nixon presidential records, there exists 
widespread public suspicion ·,bout the Government's disposition of the 
Kennedy assassination records stemming from the beliefs that federal 
officials (1) have not made available all Government assassination 
records (even to the Warren Commission, Church Coau:d.ttee, House Assassination 
Committee) and (2) have h?avi~ red.acted the records released under FCIA 
in order to cover up sinister conspiracies. s.J. Res~ 282 effectively 
addresses these concerns first by creating an iwpartial body, the proposed 
Executive Director and Review Board, with the authority tp review and 
if necessary subpoena. all relevant records and then by establishing the 
criterion of full disclosure except in ct..ses where "clear and convincing 
justification exists for postponing" the release of specified docmenta. 
There is reaaon to believe that all relevant G~vernment records 
pertaining to the Kennedy aaaa.ssination have not been releuE.J. and cannot 
be precisely identified by persons outside the executive branc, •• It might 
not be the case that all such records were filed under specific naaes 
and programs (Osvald, Ruby, Ferrie, Fair Play for Cuba Committee, Warren 
Commission). The federal intelligence agencies, for example, had in the 
