) -~ 
f107W SECTION 107. fIN~AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND COiaDENTIAL SOURCES; 
AN~REIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASS-] 
r 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
b. Control 
-of information foreign intelligence services obtain; 
-of recruitment, by creating Bureau-controlled OAs; 
-of foreign operations, by keeping foreign intelligence services 
occupied handling our OAs. 
c. Collection of evidence for prosecution 
ct. Deception (Disinformation) 
Passing inaccurate or accurate.information designed to cause foreign 
intelligence services to draw conclusions or initiate action to 
their disadvantage and/or to U.S. advantage. 
e. Neutralization: to provid~ basis for persona non grata (PNG) action, 
exclusion, arrest or other disruptive action. 
f. Collection by OA of personality characteristics data on foreign 
officials for purpose of defection analysis. 
3. Individuals to be considered as OAs 
a. Foreign officials in a position to furnish information of intel­
ligence value. An intelligence officer (IO) is, of course, the 
most valuable OA. An official who is not an IO, while of lesser 
value, is still a highly desirable OA because of the positive 
intelligence and information on the personalities and activities 
of ·other officials that he can provide·. 
b. Agents of foreign intelligence services. When these individuals 
are identified, and the prospect and value of recruiting them 
outweighs any prosecutive potential, they should be seriously 
considered for development as OAs. 
c. Contacts of foreign officials. When contacts of foreign officials 
are identified as being of interest to a foreign intelligence 
service, we should attempt to enlist their cooperation and direct 
them against that intelligence service. 
d. Individuals who are particularly attractive to a foreign intel­
ligence service. Our objective is to determine the specific 
interests of foreign intelligence services or individual !Os, and 
to then recruit asset(s) who would appear to that service or IO to 
satisfy their needs. Such assets must have potential for operation 
within a reasonably expected period of time. 
e. Former assets who currently offer potential for exploitation. 
4. Restrictions 
FBIHQ authority is required prior to conducting detailed background 
investigation of any of the following individuals as an FCI asset, 
whether IA or OA. Of course, some investigation must initially be 
conducted, without disclosing our interest, to sufficiently identify· 
the individual and generally assess his potential, so that FBIHQ can 
conduct a meaningful indices search and make an intelligent evaluation 
of the risks versus value involved. 
a. Individual under 21 years of age 
b. Official or employee of the United Nations or other public inter­
national organizations of a governmental or quasi-governmental 
nature 
c. Official or ~mployee of foreign diplomatic establishment or 
government 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
26 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 11~ 
·) 
) 
_) 
