13-00000 
- 5 -
bothered by reporters once he had made it clear that he 
was not the talking kind. No decisions were taken, no 
actions directed alt.hough both Rusk and McNamara indi足
cated they would immediately take whatever steps were 
feasible to improve the situation. 
c. The President then reverted to Cuba and said that 
he questioned seriously whether these sabotage efforts were 
the proper thing for the U. S. to be doing. He thought they 
were both hypocritical and ineffectual and while he under足
stood the need for some of them to maintain the morale of 
internal dissidents to the Castro regime and to maintain the 
morale of Cuban exiles, he thought probably these consider足
ations were outweighed by the hypocrisy of our seeking peace 
and talking peace and conducting this sort of activity on the 
side. Rusk said that he had never been in favor of this pro-
gram and had the same doubts the President did. McNamara 
said that he too had never been in favor of this program and 
questioned our participation. I stated that while this program 
was conducted by the CIA, every action taken had the full 
approval of the Special Group on which the Secretary of State 
and the Secretary of Defense were adequately represented 
and that the program was designed in part for the specific 
purpose of genera.ting internal sabotage and dissidents with 
a view to creating as many problems as possible for Castro 
and with a view to getting an escalation of anti-Castro activi足
ties in Cuba, that over the long run any type of effort such 
as this was an irritant to Castro and that such action had 
some effect, even though slight, on the Cuban economy. I 
said that over the long run yo~ could not expect the Castro 
regime to fall from these actions alone but that every little 
bit helped, and that we had noticed over the past four months 
a considerable increase in sabotage actions generated from 
internal Cuban elements over which we exercised no control. 
I said that I could not take exception to the fact that this 
policy was a hypocritical one in the light of a peace offensive 
although I did not feel we were trying to make peace with 
Castro. I also pointed out that sabotage activities in North 
