l· l 
.., . 
( 
\. 
[ 
-
SECTION lv,. 
• 
SECURITY INFORl'".18.NTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 107Q.-R 
Q., CORRECTIVE ACTION ON FALSE INFORMATION 
1. When it is determined that informant or ex-informant furnished false informa­
tion while informant, promptly advise Bureau of complete fac·ts. 
2. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing 
informant in future, such as: "informant of known unre·liability" or 
"informant who has furnished both·reliable and unreliable information in 
the past." , 
3. Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with ·review of 
all date. furnished by individual and label information :from him accordingly. 
4. All communications containing information :from informant which have bee~ 
disseminated to Bureau, other Bureau of£ic~s, and to outside agencies 
must be corrected. 
5. Identify cases .individually by title and character, together-vii th dates 
of communications' containing information. 
6. If information was used in reports, corrective letters should be crystal 
clear and refer to specific report, page number, and change to- lie made .. 
7 . .Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by Bureau in 
accordance with ~rt II, section 4, o:f Manual of Rules and Regulatio~s. 
Corrective action should be called to attention of other Bureau offices~ 
outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
8. Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further d:issemina­
ti on of information to follow instructions set forth above. 
9. Set up control file regarding this corrective action, and upon completion 
of same submit to Bureau :final letter under informant's caption identifying 
each case by title, character, Bureau file, where known, and date of com­
munication. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files 
to see that necessary corrective action has been taken. 
10. If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
informant should also be requested to submit summary letters showing what 
corrections have been made. 
11 . .All information from informant must be correctly labeled and great care 
must be taken to see that this is done. 
12. Occasionally, ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions raises 
a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to time he was in:forrr.a.nt .. It 
is not necessary to go back and change evaluation of information attributed 
to that individual in absence of definite indication tha~ informant furnished 
unreliable information while he was informant. 
13. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability and 
known unrelia.bility should be made in accordance with part II, section 5, 
1'13.nual of Rules and Regulations. 
R. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this sec~ion. 
2. Assi~nment of symbols 
a• A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step i_s taken. 
to develop an individual as a confidential source. 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning symbol number, and brief state­
ment concerning type of information furn~shed. 
c. Abbreviation "CS" may be used_ in intra-Bureau communications for 
confidential source; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS. 11 Communicati_ons relating 
to espionage and foreign nationality matters should in addition 
have a character indicating country involved; e.g., IS - R. • 
d. When permanent symbol has been assigned to confidential s~urce, 
abbreviation °GS 11 is to-appear before symbol number; e.g., CS NY 000-S. 
e. Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from series 
of numbers used for security, extremist, and criminal informants. 
21 
10-13-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1150 
