[ 
[ 
[ 
2. 
SEC.TIO"N 6. • 
P1RT II 
.t :iBLIC.ATIONS, PRESS,. .A.1TD PUBLIC 
Identification orders, wanted .. flyers, check circulars, ,.and apprehension 
ord·ers 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individua.ls 
and organizations to which identification orders,· wanted flyers,. check 
circulars, and apprehension orders are to_be sent. Each field offLoe must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent to • 
firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations. 
a. Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Brtreau upon receipt o~ 
field request. (The Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decide what organizations, individuals, or.concerns are to appear on 
the list. . 
c. 
a: 
[ e • 
(1) .. The quality ·of the assistance the addressee is in a position to 
give . 
(2
3
) The cooperation which haH been afforded 
( ) The following m~st appear-on tha·list: 
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division Missioµs Providing Lodging 
Bureau of Customs .Post Of~ice Inspectors • 
Coop era ti ve Credit Bureau?· Postmasters 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Salvation Army 
ment Officers ·secret Se:i:-vice· 
FBINA Graduates U. s. Marshals 
.3:otels 
Immigration and Naturaliza­
tion Service 
( 4) The following may appear on the list: 
4utomobile Clubs 
Banks 
County Attorneys 
County Corone-rs 
Credit Companies 
Detective Agencies 
Enlistment Officers, 
U. s. Army, Navy, 11arine Corps 
Employment Service 
Fire Departments 
Forest Service 
Gunsmiths 
Novie Studios'- • : 
Navy Shore Patrol 
Oil Company Special Agents 
Parole and Probation Officers 
Plant ,Q:uarantine Officers 
Protective Associations 
Race Tracks 
Savings and Loan Associations 
Service Recruiting Officers 
·-state Hospitals for Insane 
_ Steamship'Companies 
Telegraph Companies 
Insurance Companies·- · · · u., s. Attorneys 
: U .. S . C ommi s s i on.ers 
Identification orders,. want_!:!~ flyers, and: ch-eck--circularii are to be 
furnis-hed newspapers and periodicals only upon th-~ir specific request. 
~hould a compelling reason.exist for distribution of:an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as·possible employm~nt 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical 1 - secure Bureau approval for 
_such distribution. 
Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels. 
Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be-cfrcularized on 
identification order fugitives who are.veterans. Office of origin 
has res ponsi bili ty for instructing other offices ·to initiate di stri bu­
t ion to VA installations in such cases.] 
4 
10-27-59 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
/ 
