' ' t 
--- - -- -----·------~ ---- - ------ -·- - ---- ----
INVESTIGATION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY 
BY NEW ORLEANS DISTRICT ATTORNEY JAMES Go GARRISON 
In December, 1966, we received information that New Orleans 
District Attorney James c. Garrison was conducting an investigation 
of the assassination of the late President Kennedy. Garrison reported­
ly was attempting to develop evidence showing that David William 
Ferrie, a h9mosexual who was a former airlines pilot, and Lee Harvey 
OSWald conspired with anti-Castro Cubans to assassinate President 
Kennedy. . p 
We were informed by several sources-that Garrison was basing 
much 9f his investigation upon information furnished to him by Jacks. 
Martin and David Lewis. Martin is a private investigator in 
New Orleans and Lewis is a baggage handler at a New-Orleans bus 
station. Both Martin and Lewis appear to be mental cases. During 
our investigation of the assassination, we thoroughly investigated 
allegations that Ferrie and Oswald were acquainted but we found 
no evidence to show this was true. 
Garrison has made one arrest in his case - Clay L. Shaw, 
a homosexual who was former Director of the .International Trade Mart 
in New Orleans. Shaw's name did not come up during our investigation 
of the assassinationo Garrison claims Shaw is identical with one 
Clay Bertrand, an alleged contact of New Orleans attorney Dean Andrews. 
We never located Bertrand and Andrews' acquaintance with Bertrand 
highly doubted. We developed no information indicating Oswald knew 
Clay Shaw. 
On March 14, 1967, during a preliminary hearing in New Or­
leans for Shaw, Garrison produced a mystery witness Perry Raymond 
Russo who alleged that he was present at a meeting when Leon oswald, 
David Ferrie and Clay Shaw planned the assassination--of President 
Kennedyo Russo identified Leon Oswald as identical to Lee Harvey 
Oswald. Russo admitted receiving psychiatric treatment since 1959 
and his testimony at the preliminary hearing was highly contradictory 
to info~mation he previously furnished to news-media. Russo appears 
to be lying and during our investigation of~the assassination, we 
developed no information indicating Oswald ever knew Russo. 
James Co Garrison is an egomaniac, is politically ambitious 
and it appears his whole investigation·was triggered by his desire 
for publicity. The Director has instructed that we have no contact 
with Garrison or any member of his staff and that we stay meticulously 
out of Garrison's investigationo It appears Garrison is looking for 
an attempt to dump his investigation on this Bureau and the Director 
has instructed that we should avoid such possibility "like a plague." 
• 
' . . . . '. . . 
