·- - ..•• [ 
I \ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
sr"'I01f 87. SF;GURITY HPTt:STIG{1.'.rIO?'' 87C 
' J 
Other Nar::dsl; -·olution2.ry groups • • 
.A long-cs ta.bl:i.shed group which would come under this category is tho 
Proletarian Party o:f .America., a relatively small organhrn.tion. 
There a-lso are a :few small groups composed of cx-memb"crs of the 
Communist P?...r·!;y~ US.A.:, who haYe volunta:d.ly left the pax:ty or wJ;i.o 
have been expelled., usually for factionalism. 
e., General 
Communist investlgatious must be cond,icteu. in a most discreet and 
thorough manner at all times. Memberc of la~ enforcement agencies 
are not to accompa.ny ~'\gents during the cours c of security-type 
investigations without prior Bureau authority3 Bureau employee~ 
should not discuss con11aunis·I; or rel,~tcd investigations with any 
unauthorized indi-v-idual., The subj0ct of oornmun.ism is not to. be 
used in speeches of Bureau· employees wi thou:t specific author:i.7.ation:. 
Howpver, there is considerable mimeographed material in each office, 
·including speeches 6 te:;i:irnony, an.d magazine articles prepared by the 
Director which ~ould be furnished outside individuals interested in 
the subjec-1; of communism v:i thout any discuss ion. 
Purposes of investigation 
ae The investigation of the Communist· Party, US.A., and other s imilar--type 
organizations is of twofoltl purpose: (1) to o1Jtain _legally admissible 
evidence against these organizations for prosecution under existing 
Federal statutes set out above and (2) to.follow c~osely the activities 
of these organizations froni an intelligence -viewpoint to have a day­
to-day appraisal of the strength, dangerousness, and activities ~f 
these organizations seeking the overth2.·ow of the u. s. Government. 
b 0 Suggestions for proper coverage of the investigation of the Com.11unist 
Party as an organization and similar org2:niz"ations should include: 
(1) The assignment of sufficient .Agent personnel to ins·ure that ·all 
of the important ramifications of party activities are properly 
covered • 
(2) Development· of confidential. informants in all party levels, 
including the national headquarters organization • 
(3) 
(4) 
The establishment of trash and mail covers o.n pertinent head-
quarters and party func::onaries • 
The constant e:ffort to :r:velop adrniss ible e-vidence aJains t party 
officials for violation o:f FederLl laws 
c 0 Brief to establish illegal status of Communist Party, USA 
{1} Purpose of brief is to colleqt all leg~lly admissible evidence 
to prove.illegality of party _in one file. (Bufile 100-3-74.) 
(2) Reports on brief to establish illegal status must be submitted 
by each office quarterly and should include only leg~lly 
admissi.ble eYide11ce obtained during preceding three·- ·:,)nth period. 
[If: there is no information to repo:i.·t, include a st.~-- .:,ent to th:-. 
effect in the cover pages of the quarterly report ro!· the same 
period enti·l;led "Communist Party, USA,. Internal Sc . .1ri ty - C11 
{no copy needed for.Bufile 100-3-74}.] 
(3) It is advisable to use the following breakdown fn preparing 
reports: _ 
(a) Origin and continuity 
(b) Pertinent statements, 
(1) Marxism-Leninism! 
internationalism, (4J 
statements 
of the par.ty· 
writings,and instructions relating 
(2) imperialism, (3) proletarian 
defense ·of ~SSR, {5) revolutionary 
{6}. Internal Security Act of 1950e • Include under this, 
to 
headinJ any admissible evi'dence which would tend -l;o prove 
a violation of section 4{a) of this act. 
5 
3-13-63 
() 
. NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 122 
