14-00000 
documents increased, a separate file was created to be the 
repository of information on the alleged American defector. 
There is a notation in the Defectors File that a separate 
file exists on Oswald. 
9. Both the Defectors File (#0341008) and the file of 
Lee Harvey Oswald (#0351164) were handled by Marguerite D. 
Stevens of the OS/Security Research Staff during the pre­
assassination time frame. Of the documents listed above, a 
majority of them contain a notation or the initials of 
Marguerite D. Stevens, leading one to· believe she was the 
officer responsible for the collection, analysis, and filing 
of this information. 
10. The Security Research Staff (SRS) was the 
component responsible for collecting, developing, and 
evaluating information of a counterintelligence nature to 
detect and/or prevent penetration of the Agency's 
organization, employees, and activities by foreign or 
domestic organizations or individuals. SRS conducted 
research in connection with employee loyalty cases and 
maintained records identifying personalities, environments, 
and personal traits of individuals who had been of 
COUI).terintelligence interest over the years. SRS maintained 
liaison with various government agencies in connection with 
counterintelligence activities and coordinated the 
counterintelligence effort throughout OS. Using 
organizational charts of this time period, SRS reported 
directly to the office of the Director of Security. 
11. A representataive of the Office of Personnel 
Security /Management Staff was queried regarding the mission 
and functions of SRS during the pre-assassination time 
period. He made inquiries relating to the above request, 
and the OPS/Information Management Officer retrieved retired 
policy records for review. The information on the mission 
and function of SRS was retr~eved from the archived Office 
of Security administrative and historical files as well as a 
review of the security file on Marguerite D. Stevens. 
,:. 
6 
