i-
NW 
" 
Memorandum J. J. Casper to Mr. Mohr 
Re: Attorney General's Staff Conference 
Wednesday, April 8, 1970, 5 :00 p. m. 
I 
Mr. Kleindienst was also interested in the scope of our work and in 
this regard the Director took this opportunity to point out that he did not believe the 
FBI should be investigating every bomb threat and that he ~oped that if the new bomb 
legislation as proposed by the President is passed the Department's Criminal 
Division will set appropriate guidelines. The Director pointed out that many of 
these major cities have very ... excellent bomb squads and they are fully equipped to 
handle these complaints. He said why should the FBI be paralleling work done by 
competent local authorities. He said, of course, in the local areas where they have 
no people qualified, then this is a different matter. The Director said in all of these 
cases we are always willing to make our FBI Laboratory facilities and Identification 
facilities available as w~ll as assist the local authorities by covering out-of-state 
leads. 
Assistant Attorney General Johnnie M. Walters asked the Director 
if he could see any lessening of the problems that he talked about in the foreseeable 
futur-e. The Director said in the organized crime field, if the steps he has 
recommended are taken, he feels there ,vill be a decrease. With regard to the 
disorders in colleges and in the high schools and caused by the militants he said 
this is another story. The Director cited the incident of one· of the subje~fs in the 
Chicago Seven trial appearance last night at American University and thereafter 
going to Catholic University and then leaving town. He said that apparently these 
university administrators will not call in the local police, and he said it was dis­
graceful how they threw rocks, destroyed property and set fires at American 
University. He then also cited the incident wherein attorney Kuntsler after he ,vent 
out to Santa Barbara, California, gave a speech, and then left town, that Santa 
Barbara was the victim of three days of looting and burning. The Director cited 
the violence promised in New Haven when Bobby Seale is brought to trial whereupon 
\ 
the Solicitor General commented that the judge ,vho is going to try that case was his 
law school roommate. The Director said that this is a very serious situation and 
it is entirely possible that violence will occur when Seale is tried. The Director 
pointed out that we have appropriately advised all local .. authorities of this possibility. 
The Director then cited the tremendous problems that Judge Hoffman 
.in Chicago had iit handling the trial and said that one could hardly blame him for some 
of his actions in view of the provocative acts on the part of the subjects and the 
\
at!orneys. The•D~rector said he recalled that_Judge Medina i~ Ne\v Yo_rk, \vhen he 
tried the Communist Party leaders, the experience \Vas so trying that it actually • 
broke his health. Peterson at this point injected a co1nment that his people are 
(CONTINUED - OVER) 
- 4 -
.. 
3 
, Page 534 
