13-00000 
~ 
SUBJECT: The JFK Declassification Experience 
"A small number of CIA staff officers; almost 
exclusively in the Directorate of Operations, 
unnecessarily impeded the process and damaged 
the Agency's interests by resisting compromise 
with all-or-nothing positions." 
12. (AIUO) As time passed and both Agency and ARRB 
staffers became better educated in attempting the balance 
between the public interest and the legitimate need for 
secrecy, credibility improved; the ARRB members delegated 
the negotiation process to the staff. Previously; every 
postponed word, phrase, or paragraph had to the approved,_ 
by the Board. Toward the end, only remaining disagreements 
were passed by the staff to the Board. 
THE ISSUE OF RELEVANCE 
13. (AIUO) The ARRB, under the law, determined 
relevance of file material - the Agency could not do so 
although it could and did, eventually quite successfully, 
negotiate. Because of the impact of the Oliver Stone movie 
"JFK," reflecting a 70-80% public view that the Warren 
Commission conclusion that Oswald acted on his own was wrong, 
the ARRB pursued all the major conspiracy theories. Thus, 
Agency files on the USSR' s· handling of American defectors, 
entry and departure controls on foreigners, alien employment 
and marriage with Soviet citizens, and, particularly, KGB 
interest in Oswald, and Nosenko's claim to have reviewed 
Oswald's KGB file in Moscow were declared relevant - as_was 
the whole Nosenko bona fides issue. Agency contact with the 
Mafia to arrange for Castro's assassination, not known to the 
Warren Commission, were obviously relevant and, by extension, 
assassination as· an Agency activity was considered relevant -
hence, all such testimony before the Church Committee had to 
be reviewed. Of particular interest was the plot against 
Lumumba because of the involvement of the former Chief of the 
Technical Services Division, which division was also involved 
in the Castro assassination planning. 
14. (U) The major conspiracy theory of interest 
to the Board concerned Cubans: either alleged Castro 
involvement because of his awareness of plotting against 
himself or Cuban exiles, furious with JFK for the Bay of Pigs 
failure. Thus, all files on Agency support to the many Cuban 
5 
