( 
[ 
( 
I 
2. 
3. 
' 
4. 
PART II 
-
6K - L 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Included in the index may be individuals in Government, business, or 
industryo Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information. Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and tpwns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents.· .An index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office ~pace which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is pr_actic_ab:)..e to d,o ~o and the ca,rds_ will '_pe 
securely retained in a locked, stee~ file cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in the field office. The cards shall pertain only to the 
territory covered; under such circumstances there shall be no duplicate 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete 
or when it is determined a source is deceased. 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not.remove 
such index cards at the time obsoJ,ete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information index except when it has been determined that source is 
deceased, at which time general index card can be destroyed inµnediately. 
Under all other conditions the general index cards shall be retained for 
20 years subsequent to the removal of cards ·from the special source of 
in-formation index. 
Files 
Do not make up files or write memoranda fo·r the preparation of sources 
of information. 
Security-and extremist sources of information 
Every six months a letter o·f justification (Fn.:.·401) should be submitted 
to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and extremist 
sources of information. Follow instructions set out in section[130I,]item 
2b, vo~ume IV, of the Manual of :):nstructions. If the security or extremis.t 
source of 'information is not being paid on Bureau authorization and is 
being_ used regularly, the .Agent handling the source of information must 
dictate a memorandum t6 the S.AC for the file con.taining the same certifi­
cation as to stability and. reliability as required b-y payment letters. 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such acti'ons might be mis­
construed. 
[PUBLIC CONTACTS 
1. Public contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, 
can and do render extraordinary service or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assistance to the FBI. 
2o Immediately upon assuming the'duties of SAC, such SAC should visit 
leading officials located in the field division.] 
7-8 
2-27-75 
l NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1114 
