... 
t 
( 
SECTIOlT 107 ... ECDRITY TITFORM.AMTS AND COl-TFIDEt.AL SOURCES 
8. Instruct .each intereste,i Bu.re2,u. office which has mac!.e further dis­
semination of suoh information to follow the intd:iructions set forth 
abo-veo 
107S 
9. Also se·l; u.p a control file regarding this corrective action, and upon 
completion of same submit to the Bu.rea.u. a final le·l;ter under the in­
formant Is caption identifying ea.oh oase by ti·tle, character, Bureau file, 
where kno,·m~ e,nd. date of corn.munioation. 
:.i.o. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files to see 
that necessary corrective aot::.on has been taken in each ins·t.anoe. 
11. If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
the infor~ant should also be requested to submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been madeo 
12. It is imperative that all ini'o:rmation from the informant be oorreo·bly 
labeled and great care must be taken to see that ihis is done. 
13. Occasionally, an ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to ·the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of 
the information attributed to that individual in the absence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was an informant. 
14. Dissemination of informa·tion from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unrelia.bili ty should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
T, CLASSIFICATION - 134 
U, GONFIDEN'TIAL SOURCES 
1, Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2, Assignment of symbols 
a, A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved. 
b. A~vise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number~ reason for assigning a symbol number, and a prief 
statement concerning t1~e of information furnish~d. 
c. The abbreviation "CS" may be used in intra-Bureau. coh.nrnnioations 
for confidential source. Communications relating to espionage and 
foreign nationality matters should in addition have a character 
indicating the country involved; e.g., IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential sou.roe, 
the abbreviation 11CS 11 is ·to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS NY-OOO-S. 
e. Syml>ol ·numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from 
[ the series of symbol numbers used for your security, (rac·ial, ]and 
criminal informants. 
3. Index 
a.. Index cards on form FD-348 like those prepared for informants must 
be made UP and filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant index, 
[ .. [racial informant index,] or the security informant index, depending on 
the type of information furnished. . 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the symbol ind.ex on inform-
ants. :--
c. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
[ criminal informant index,[racial informant index,]and the security 
[ informant index if the source furnishes information of value in[ tJ:ie se] 
types of investigations. 
4. Files 
When active inve stigat:i,on is initiated relative to an individual who 
has potential as a security confidential source, a 134 classi~ication 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts· 
( to develop the individua1 are discontinued. Files may be opened 
on confidential sources in criminal matters in a manner identical with 
that for handling criminal informant files in the discretion of the 
SAC. 
27 
1-13-64 
1NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1561 
u 
