NW 
• I J 
February 5, 1960 
UNKNOWN SUBJECTS 
BOMBING OF KEHILATH ISRAEL·SYNAGOGUE 
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI 
JANUARY 28, 1960 
'c.:°' On January 2·s, 1960, approximately 10: 30 p. m., an 
explosion occurred in the front courtyard of the Kehilath 
Israel Synagogue, 800 East Meyer Boulevard, Kansas City, 
Missouri. • Property damage consisting of 51 plate-glass 
I 
windows shattered, broken stained glass window· and dented 
door amounting to approximately $5,000. Only occupants of 
synagogue were 1he -janitor and his wife, neith~r of whom was 
injured., FBI Laboratory examination indicated characteristics 
of a dynamite explosion. .Laboratory examiner flown to Kansas 
City to assist·in examination of evidence. 
Witnesses observed two automobiles leaving area 
at high rate of speed :i.mmediately after explosion.. Identifi­
cation made of occupants of automobile. Interviews being 
conducted. Other witnesses saw four youths running from 
• • vicinity of synagogue immediately after explosion .. • High 
~ 
school student has made statement that he and another student 
were responsible for the bombing; however, later denied that 
they were involved. Students are being· interviewed. . . 
Approximately one month ago, several thousand blasting caps 
.. were stolen from company in Kansas City. Half of stolen 
caps recovered by Kansas City police in possession of teen­
agers who. are being considered as sus·pects in bombing. 
Investigation determined a number of high school 
students in Kansas City area recently formed Nazi-type group. 
Members.of group identified and interviewed. Two juvenile 
members are prime suspects. • 
FBI immediately offered the sefvices of the 
I
. Laboratory and the Identification Division to local authori11es 
and is continuing to actively render every possible assistance 
to them. 
-
A special squad of Special Agents has been formed and 
this case is being afforded intensive investigation by the 
Kansas City Division. 
.-...-:.: 
' 
,('" 'r. ·-· ./ 
.,..,.-•,;•.<::- ·, I/ 
I 
t 
r • I 
! 
