( 
[ 
( 
SE.CTI ON 87. SECURirY INYE STIG.ATION"; 87.A 
. __ , 
( 1) For any membar of such organizati.on wi t
0
~nowledge or notice of 
such fin~l order: (a} to conoeal or fail to disclose that he 
is a mambar of such organization in seeking, accepting, or hold­
ing any nonHlectiv-e office or employment unde-r- U. S.; {b) to 
hold any nonelective ofrice or employmentuna.erU. S.; (c) to 
conceal or fail to disclose that he is mamber of such organiza­
tion in seekin.<£, acaepti.ng, or holdin;{ e:nploym"'nt in any defense 
faclli.'::y; .o-r {d) to hol•'i l)f.t'ice or empi.:-iyr.1;;nt ,'l:i.ti1. any lab,;r 
organiz11,tion, as defined in section 2 (5) of National Labo"r 
R~lations .A.ct, as amended, or to represent any employer in any 
matter or proceeding arising or pending under that act. 
(2) For any officer or employee of U. s. or of any defense facility,_ 
with knowledge or notice of such final order of S.A.CB: {a} to 
oont~ibute funds or services to such organization; or {b) to ad-
•vise, counsel, or urge any person, with knowledge or notice t4at 
such person is member of such organization, to perform or omit 
to perform, any act if such act or omission would constitute 
violation of any provision of paragraph {1} above. . • 
f. Use of mail and instrumantalities of interstate or foreign commerce 
( §. 789} . , .. .. 
Act requires any person acting for or on be·half of any organization· 
for which there is in effect final order of SACB determining it to 
be commun"ist-action or communist front organization to label properly 
all publications transmitted through mail or by any means or ins_tru­
mentali ty of inter3tate or foreign commerce. 
g. [Dele_:l;ed) 
h. Contributing to establishment of totalitarian dictatorship{§ 783) 
ISA-50 provides that it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly 
to combine, conspire, or agree with any other person to perform any 
act which would substantially contrib".lte to establishment with:1,n 
U.S. of a totalitarian dictatorship, direction and control of which is 
to be vested in, or exercised by, or under domination or control of 
any foreign government, foreign organization, or foreign individual. 
Maximum penalty is $10,000 or 10 years, or both, and thereafter be· 
inelegible to hold any office or place of honor, profit, or trust 
created by Constitution or laws of U. S. Statute of limitations. is 
10 years, except statute will not run on officer or employee of U.S. 
until after his employment has ceased. 
4. Communist Control .A.ct of 1954 
.A.ct is divided into three measures: (a} termination of rights, privile~es, 
and immunities formerly enjoyed by CPUSA and subsidiary organizations: (b) 
determination of membership in CPUSA and other subversive organizations; 
and (c} amendment of ISA-50, bringing within its purview communist-infil­
trated organizations. This manual section is limited to provisions per­
taining to com.~unist-infiltrated organizations (Title 50, USC, § 782). 
a. Definition of communist-infiltrated organization 
Term 11conm1unist-infiltrated organization" means any organization in 
U. S. (other than communist-action or communist front organ~zation) 
which (1) is substantially directed, dominated, or controlled by. 
individual or individuals who are, or who within three years have been, 
actively engaged in giving aid or support to communist-action organ­
ization, communist foreign government,. or world communist movement, 
and (2) is serving, or within la.st three years has served, as means 
for {a) giving aid or support to any such organization, government, or 
9 
4-13-72 
