[ 
[ 
( 
87E 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
{, 
•• • 
SECTlON 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATION~· 
(6) Advise Bureau promptly by LHM of subject's return from travel 
a.broad. If such individual has traveled behind Iron Curtain, 
also furnish Bureau recommendations as to interview and state 
whether additional investiga~ion is contemplated. 
File reviews 
Check office indices and review files thoroughly for pertinent infor­
mation showing background and subversive activity. Include informatior.. 
in initial report. After each check and review of files has been ma.de, 
consolidate reference cards pertaining to subject in indices. 
Security informants 
Inforw.ation developed through security informants is unsurpassed .. in 
value both for intelligence purposes and as admissible evidence. 
Physical surveillances 
Physical surveillances should be used when, in opinion of SAC, infor­
mation of sufficient value might be obtained to justify their use in 
light of existing circumstances and available manpower. 
a. When information is received that meetings of subversive organiza­
tions are to take place, physical surveillances should be considered 
to corroborate such information and identify participants. • 
b. Surveillances of individuals in leadership or underground capacities 
serve to identify others within movement. 
c. Success of surveillances depends upon resourcefulness of Agents who 
mu~t at all times exercise sound judgment and discretion. Be alert 
to observe activity of subject and countersurveillances which may 
be used to identify Agents and embarrass Bureau. 
Photographic surveillances 
Photographic e-vidence of meetings between individuals or which shows sub­
jects entering or leaving meeting places of subversive orga.nizations af-
·fords convincing and admissible evidence to establish subversive activ­
ities. Prior Bureau authority is needed for photographic surveillances 
of meetings and they must be properly correlated with other investi­
gative techniques to obtain maxi~um evidence. Conceal equipment to avoid 
detection by subjects or other individuals in proximity of surveillance. 
Public sources . 
Make use of all logical public sources of information. Obtain background 
and lineage data from birth records and local bureaus of vital statistics, 
credit agencies, state records, public utility records, and school records. 
[Credit check of individual should be limited to obtaining identifying 
information only (name, address, former address, employment, former 
employment).] Obtain and index as reference material publications of 
subversive organizations and records of state and Federal committees which 
have conducted hearings concerning subversive -activities. 
Records of nrivate firms 
Where pertinent information is available in records of private firms, such 
as past or present employers, insurance companies, a.nu merchants, contact 
such firms urovided it will not jeopardize investigation. • 
Channelizing of information to case files 
Membership or activity in subversive organizations should be channelized 
to main case files of individuals involved. Mimeographed form FD-306 
may be used provided it is limited to reporting attendance at meetings. 
When information from informants or surveillances is channelized to indi­
viaual case files, it must be documented. Coordinate,information received 
from informants and confidential sources with active investigation. 
Preservation of evidence • 
Bear in mind necessity of obtaining admissible evidence. 
a. Identify, preserve, and maintain continuity of evidence obtained for 
possible admission in Federal proceedings. Identify specifically as 
to source and date. 
b. Notes or statements from informants necessary to refresh their recol­
lection if called to testify must be in sufficient detail to serve 
this purpose and contain no material which would make their use 
inadvisable or inadmissible. 
' .. 
c. Informant's original notes or statements are not to be blocked, stamped, 
serialized, or mutilated in any way which would render them unsat­
isfactory for use in Federal proceedings. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1955 26 
( 
/ 
I \ 
( 
. .,. 
t 
f 
f 
i 
f 
! 
