14-00000 
•. 
SUBJECT: JFK Declaration of Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr. 
4. (S) Many of the searches performed today are not 
significantly different than the ones done during the period 
of the various commissions and committees. The searches 
performed since 1995 still use the index to the central 
record system the same as in 1978 but we have a couple of 
new databases that were not available in 1978. We now 
capture all cable traffic electronically and are able to 
perform text searches of that repository. That repository 
post-dates the HSCA so it is not useful in locating older 
records. Additionally, we have converted a small amount of 
very sensitive paper files into computer searchable form. 
While these specific collections are part of the DO's record 
system, they were not electronically searchable nor were 
they included within the indices to the DO's central records 
system. We have searched all of these records systems for 
information responsive to requests the DO has received.· 
Some of the specific requests could not be satisfied by the 
electronic searches and we resorted to manual paper searches 
in an effort to locate the information. 
5. (U) The DO provided several briefings to the 
Assassination Records Review Board and their staff, starting 
in 1995, to describe the records created by the DO and the 
record system that manages that information. We also 
described what is meant by the need to continue protection 
of sources and methods, and the impacts the revelation of 
information would have on the lives of individuals and 
current operations. The presenters included the Agency's 
General Counsel, Deputy Director for Operations, Chief of 
the Information Management Staff, and several other DO 
managers associated with th~ conduct of operations and 
protection of sources and methods. We also provided 
detailed descriptions of current operations. We provided 
information about specific individuals whose lives or 
livelihood would be threatened as examples of harm that 
would occur if certain information was released. 
Additionally, we presented a description of the operational 
environment that existed and the intensity under which 
searches were performed in the wake of the assassination. 
6. (U) The CIA issued an Agency-wide employee 
bulletin for a new search for JFK Assassination records (OIM 
98-0081, dated 30 July 1998). As reque~ted by the ARRB, the 
DO distributed the employee bulletin via Lotus Notes on 17 
2 
SECff-EI 
