( 
( 
[ 
[ 
b •. 
SF:C'.i'IOH 'S .AliD GOHF'IJJ ::J)IAL SOURCF.3 107G 
( C} 
(7) 
{8) 
( 9) 
(10) 
(11) 
(12} 
., 
Inforr..ants should inc" ~n t!.e 1oc1y of their s·t?.tf:ments specific 
dates anc: plfccc::; pur of ·i,;l:e r.,cetini! or n.cti vi ty bein 1! 
related; identities o: at:.err, and pcrf'ons present, plus their 
knov:n status :in a.ny g.r <·; specific activity en(;af!,cd in by ea.c:1 
i nc1i vi dual present; ar:·· comments made by each i ndi v:i.c"!ual. 
Informant should identiiy[tis statcment)by affixina his code 
name[im~odiate)y under the last written line on each page.) 
.Any correctio::1s, erasures, char:f[cs, or addi.tions should be identified 
by informant affixing his oode name or the initials of his code 
n ,ame • 
J,..gents I nam::;s shou.ld never appear on ?..ny page. 
Infornw.nt should refer to himself in the body of ·the st·atement 
by his true name and he should u.se the third person. 
Agent recei vint wri t-t;en s·l;atement should not make any corrections, 
additions, deletions, etc., thereto, nor should he pl:e.ce any 
markings thereon, such as his iniJ.;ials, da.te of rccei pt from 
informant, permanent symbol number of inforrn;,.nt, file- numbers, 
indexing symbols, etc. 
Do not block stacp or serialize. Receipt a~d serialization 
should be recorded on form FJ-306 or on a :· .nneli zing 
memorandum which sho1.1ld cont,'.in the applic· • - e i terns set 
forth on form FD-306. 
Extraneous material should be kept to an absolute minimum.· 
Informants should leave out such itens as: 
(a} Any reference concerning the Director and the Bureau 
(b) References to other documents and statements submitted by 
the informant 
(o) Obvious adini.nistrative material, such as operational 
instructions given by contacting Agent to informant 
.These data should be furnished orally by inf·or::n,:_nt to con­
tacting Agent who will record the information in memorc1.ndum 
form for the informant file. 
Furnished orally by inform?.nt . . 
{ 1) Ccn·l;acting A 5en-!; should promptly reduce i nformaticn to writing­
so that it will be accurately recorded as contemporaneously as 
possible with the making of the oral statement by the informant 
{ 4} 
( 5} 
. to the Agent. :Ihe :following items furnished by informant should 
be left cut: 
t ~~ 
( o) 
ltn-tt ~eference 
?.eferences tc 
the inf.ormant 
concerning the Director and the Bureau 
other ·aocuments and statements submitted by 
Obvious administrative material, 
instructions given by contacting 
such as oneraiionar 
Agent to .. informant 
These data sho"Q.ld be recorded in memorandum form for the inform­
ant file. 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification. 
Date it at the top with the date the informant furnishes the 
information to the Agent. No other date is desi;red. e·xcept the 
date cf the meeting or activity which shall be set fortp in t;:;.e 
body cf t:ie statement, • 
Separate statements should be prepared for each meeting or eao1! 
·separate activity in _which informants engage and should be 
dictated by the Agent as if the informant were preparing them 
himself. 
The information, after being reduced to writing, should then :e 
;read promptly by the informant a!!d acknowledged ";;y :1:.m by 
affixing his code name on each page. !n espicinage and foreig~ 
nationality matters authentication by informants is necessary 
only where future prosecution is possible, 
11 
2-13-63 
'NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1341 
l i 
; 
