i 
PART II 
SE-N 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .A.N.UBLIC CONTACTS 
• acti-vities or close association with other persons will be in-vol-v-ed in 
unfa-vorable publicity or become the subject of ad-verse investigative 
activity, or who will capitalize on their friendly, !=!-Ssociation with 
the S.AC. 
• 4. Except where a suitable file is already i.n existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each co~tact. 
5. .A three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained in an SAC 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the S.AC. Each c.ard- is to 
contain: 
a. Name of the contact 
b. -Office and home addresses and telephone numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any. comments which would be helpful in handling the individual 
e. Date of fir-st contact and name of S.AC first developing the contact 
( Show in the lower left corner on the front of the card.) 
f. Dates of contacts by the S.AC {to be entered on the reverse side of 
the card in longhand). Contacts more frequent than quarterly should 
not be listed. 
g . .Any necessary descriptive data 
6. Each contact is to be indexed in the general indices. The card is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparation, and the notation, 
nsee S.AC." 
7. S.AC con tac ts loo ated in headquarters city must be contacted at least three 
times each year; those located[in areas regularly covered by road trip's 
out of headquarters city or located]in resident agencies must be contacted 
at least two times each year .. 
8. .Advise Bure.au immediately when a contact is discontinued U.ACB. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to· another city located within another 
field division, a copy of the communication advising ~f the discontinuance 
should be designated for that field division . .Also advise field division 
of background information re contact. . 
9. Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of S.AC' contacts. 
10. Each of·fice must submit a complete roster of ·sAC contacts to reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and November each year.· If there are 
any changes in address, employment, or other pertinent data, such inform~­
tion should be set forth.. If there is no change in status, so state. 
11. From time to time, the Bureau sends· these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more "FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indication that such 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay. 
12. Immediately upon assum1ng the duties of.SAC, such SAC should visit all 
persons listed as S.AC contacts and in· addition leading officials located 
in --the field di vision. 
8 
11-28-60 
l NW 38~21 Docld:32989529 Page 984 
