1 ·-
NW 
VV& 'dl n 
BLACK PANTHER PARTY (DPP), 
.lso known as -,. 
Black Pc:nther Party fo1 ~; .. f Defense 
. According to the official newspc1per of the' BPP, the BPP 
was started during December, 1966, in Oakland, California, to 
organize black people so they can take control of the life, 
politics, and thG destiny of the black community. It was 
organized by BOBBY G. SEALE, BPP Chairman, and HUEY P. NE1·1TON, 
Minister of Defense, BPP. 
~ . 
The official newspaper, called 11The Black Panther, 11 
regularly states that the BPP advocates the use of guns and 
guerrilla tactics in its revolutionary program to end oppression 
of the black people. Residents of- the black community ·a.re 
urged to arm themselves agninst the police who are consistently. 
referred to as 11pigs 11 who should be killed. 
. The newspaper, in its· ..• {sJ~e of September 7, 
·article by the then Minister o~·Education, GEORGE 
This article ended with the following: 
1968, had an 
MURRAY. 
"Black men .. Black people, colored persons of l.,merica,. 
revolt every·wherel JI.rm yourselves. The only culture 
worth keeping is revolutionary culture. change. 
Freedom everywhere. Dynamite! Black po-wer. Use 
the gun. :Kill the pigs everywhere. 11 • 
T"nc BPP newspaper, issue of October 5, 1968, had an 
article introduced \·.ri th the following statement: "We ·will 
not dissent from Arnerican government. We will overthrow it. 11 
DP.VID HILLIARD,· Chief of Staff, BPP, in a speech at the 
San Francisco Polo Field on November 15, 1969, said 11\'le will 
kill Richard Nixon." 
DAVID HILLil~.RD, in the 11New York Times, 11 issue of 
December 13, 1969, was quoted as follows: 11We advocate the 
very direct overthrow of the government by way of force 
and violence." 
- • 
In the issue of 1'.pril 25, 1970, the BPP newspaper had 
an article by Minister of Culture mmRY DOUGLAS as follows: 
"The only way to make this racist US government administer 
justice to the people it is oppressing, is ... by taking 
up arms against this government, killing the officials, 
until the reactionary forces ... are deap and those that-
are left turn their weapons on their_ superiors, thereby 
passing revolutionary judgement against the number one 
enemy of all mankind, the racist US -government." 
The BPP Headquarters is located at 1046 Peralta Street, 
Oakland, C.:i.liforni.:i. Branches of the BP.P, and committees to 
Combat J:'accisin, under control of the B!1F, ha.Ve been established 
in various locations in the USA .. 
. APPENDIX 
