13-00000 
C. 
. 
0 
0 
r 
I 
CLANDESTINE SERVICES 
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 
SECRET 
. 
CSI NO. 10-5 
SECURITY 
19 September 1963 
f. Unless otherwise designated by the Office of Security, investigative data 
in either Operational Approval or Covert Security Approval cases involving 
aliens may be shown to proper offices of the division and may, if deemed 
necessary by the division, be forwarded to the field. The dispatch or cable 
in such cases will be coordinated with the Counter Intelllgence Staff and • 
the Office of Security. No investigative data will be transmitted or dis­
closed to other than Agency staff officials without the specific prior ap­
proval of the Office of Security. The need-to-know principle will be applied 
strictly in such cases. No investigative data regarding United states cit­
izens will be transmitted to the field without the specific prior approval of 
the Counter Intelllgence Staff and the Director of Security and subsequent 
to such approval without coordination with the Office of Security on the dis­
patch or cable involved. 
6. COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS FOR LIAISON WITH UNITED STATES 
OFFICIALS 
Requests for Covert Security Approvals for Liaison with U.S. officials, wheth­
er such officials are in the United States or abroad, will be transmitted directly 
to the Office of Security. Each request shall be specifically indicated as a re­
quest for a Covert Security Approval for Liaison. The request shall be accom­
panied by all available biographic information, to include wherever possible in 
cases of civilian employees of United States Government agencies the name, 
date and place of birth, the employing agency, and the position and assignment 
of the person involved. In cases involving military personnel the minimum bio­
graphic information required shall consist of the name, date and place of birth, 
rank and serial number, and the parent service. In each· case the details of the 
liaison with the individual must be set forth. 
7 .• SERVANTS OF AGENCY EMPLOYEES 
Requests to headquarters for appropriate checks on domestic personnel em­
ployed in the homes of Agency employees overseas shall be forwarded by the 
requester to the Office of Security accompanied by all available biographical 
information and the results of overseas investigations. 
_ 8. EMPLOYEES OF OTHER U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES 
Proper clearance of staff or. contract employees (including indigenous em­
ployees) of other U.S. Government agencies for operational use includes 
notification to and approval by the employee's pareniagency in Washington. 
Requests for clearance will be forwarded to the Chief, Counter Intelligence 
staff, Attention: CI/Liaison. Clearance will not be given until the appro·va1 
of the parent agency has been obtained. ·If, after such approval is obtained, 
it is decided that the employee will not be used as requested, or upon termi- · 
nation of use, CI/ Liaison will be notified so that the employee's parent agency 
may be advised. 
EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS OF FOREIGN SERVICES 
Requests for searc_hes of the indices of other United States agencies or the 
Office of Security, or investigation of employees or officials· of foreign · 
5 
SECRET 
... --·· - -· -- . -·--. ···- . --- ... '- ---· --- ... -·-······-- ---·-· --- ---· ----- ..•... - -······ ··-··· ·-----·------------------- --- -----•.--· •. -~·~- --------·······---·----· •••• ··- ---- ._- _ .. , ·~-·----· .,. 
