13-00000 
UI 
,. 
ORGANIZATION 
h. NATIONAL l'HOT0GRAl'IIIC IN'l'ERPRETATION CENTER 
(I I AUTHORITY. The National Photographic Interpretation Center (NPICI 
was established by National Security Councjl Intelllgence Directive No. 8. 
dated 18 January 1961 and functions under the executive direction of the 
Director of Central Intelllgence. 
(21 MISSION. The National Photographic Interpretation Center Is charged 
with producing photographic interpretation report.s, providing photographic 
Intelligence services In support of the national Intelligence effort, furnish­
Ing such additional support to departmental and Agency lnterest.s as can 
be provided without degradation of national responsibilities, and promot­
ing an Integrated and coordinated Interdepartmental effort In the ex­
ploitation of photography for intelligence purposes. 
(3l FUNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall: 
(a) Produce photographic Interpretation report.s in support of the na­
tional Intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence 
Objectives to Include preliminary rapid Interpretation of photographic 
detail and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever 
possible, related collateral Information. 
(bl Provide as a service of common concern to the Intelligence com­
munity photographic intelligence services In support of the national 
photographic Intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish 
additional support to departmental and Agency Interests. 
(cl Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photo­
graphic data. 
(d) • Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data 
with other photographic collections In the intelligence· community. 
(el Make recommendations where appropriate to facUitate · the coordi­
nated development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized 
systems for the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available 
photographic data. 
(fl Prepare photographic a1Jd photogrammetric Intelligence support re­
qulrement.s. 
(gl Provide analytic and technical photographic Intelligence services in 
support of special collection and exploitation requirements. 
th> Engage .In or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized 
equipment for the intelllgence exploitation of photography, and shall 
provide information about such specialized equipment to interested 
elements of the lnteUigence community for their own possible use or 
further adaptation. • • 
(1) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center 
for photographic intelligence units of U. S. Intelligence Board com­
ponents Involved In national and departmental activities. 
(j) Examine and make recommendations to the U. S. Intelligence Board, 
as appropriate, as to any special security controls required. 
(kl Consult, as appropriate, with Individual departments, agencies, and 
committees of the U. S. Intelligence ·Board on matters related to 
photographic intelllgence exploitation activities. • 
(4) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, fi~ure 16. 
Revised: 16 August 1963 
-SECRE~ 
Cl0Uf" I 
f •clvd•d t,o,. o .. 10 ... 01ic 
dO•"IJ'Odi .... 011d 
d•clouir.cotio 11 
49 
