[ 
) 
SECTIOl~ 10- 1 SECURITY INFOR11.ANTS AND CONFJ .TIAL SOURCES 
• ·• 
107.A - B 
.A. DEFTiiITIONS 
1. Security informant 
Individual actively engaged in obtaining and furnishing current infor­
mation on security matters exclusively for Bureau and whose identity 
must be pro·~ected. Such person should b.e a member or attend meetings 
of a subversiYe organization, such as J~he Communist Party; or be in 
_such a po~ition relative to a subversive organization, or espionage 
activitic or intelligence activities in the u. s. on behalf of foreign 
principa., vha.t he is able to obtain and does provide current infor­
mation oi value. 
2. Potential security informant 
Individual in a position to become active in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal·or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be 
·~ ••• -· in a- position actively to obtain and furnish current information to Bureau. • ... ··- ·: ·' • • - • 
3.: • Double agent 
.A specialized 1:,pe of security informant; a person who is cooperating 
with, receivir.,: '.ssignments from, and performing tasks for both a fore1gn 
intelligence sr.: ~·ice and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance. 
4. Confidential so~~oe 
An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available 
to him through his present position. E:Ji:amples would be: ba::i.kers, telephone 
company employees, American employees of foreign official establishmeniss 
employees of the United lfa tions Secretariat, and individuals who .furnish 
trash in connection with trash covers. These individuals make no 
concerted effort on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain and furnish 
information readiiy available to them. 
B. SOlBCES OF POTENTIAL SECURITY INFORMANTS 
Info:r-mants should be developed on all organizations and indi vidu~.ls which 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown that potential 
• informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal in·;est:i.­
gative aptivity. Live informant coverage depends for the most part upon 
initiative and resourcef~!ness of individual Agents and SACs. F~~ assistance 
in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested: 
1. Evaluation of 
a. Complainants in securi+,y matters 
b. Persons interviewed in connection with security cases 
c. Subjects of security inyestigations looking for indicc1.tions of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of intereot, inactivity, financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation of party loyalty 
d. Bureau applicants as possible informants 
e. Personal friends and contacts of Special Agents and other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidential s 011.rces, and contacts on con-
tinuous basis 
2. Revie~ of closed security files on individuals 
3. Review of(reserve]index 
4. As certain possibilities of reactivating former confidential informo.nts. 
5. Survey possibilities of trash covers. 
6. ~eview fac·~ionalism section of file on Com:nunist Party, USA. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffection 
on the part of Comnmnist Party members. They, of cour:rn, should not be 
.informed as to the purpose of the inquiry. 
8. Review of files on communist front organ:i.zations looking for indiviuuals 
vrho have been associated with only one o:..· two fronts or who at"l;endt!d unly 
a few meetings of a front. Such individuals freq1;.ently are innoce.•1t of 
communist propensities, yet they have a basis for cultivating the 
acquaintance of party members, The Progressive Party file also might 
prove a fertile field. 
3 
7-15-60 
___ NW 38321_ Docld:3298952:9 Page 1374 
J 
! i l 
i i ··t 
I 
l 
I 
i 
: 
