- 5. -
government personnel, as well as conduct by priva.te citizens having no -relation· 
to the..U.S. government·: In. addition, subsection ·(a),· dealing with conspiracies· 
within the United States; applies to "any other per.son," whether or not a United 
States citizen. Noncitizens who conspire within the United States to assassi-
nate a foreign ·official clearly come within the jurisdiction of U.S. law, .Sub-: 
sections (b) through (d), which deal with conduct outside the United States, apply 
to ·U.S. citiz·ens, and .to officers or employees of the United States, whether or: 
not they are citizens. Crimi.nal liability for conduct outside the United Sta.tes 
of persons who are not U.S. citizens or·-who do not hold a position as a officer 
or employee of. the United States are matters for the law of· the place where such· 
conduct takes place. 
The term "foreign official." is defined in subjection (d) (2). The defini­
tion makes it clear ·that the offense may be .committed even though the official 
belOngs to an ~flsurgent force, an unrecognized government, or a non-goveinmental : . 
political party. Our investigation -- as well as the reality of intern.dtiona1·: 
politics -- has shown ·chat. officials in such organizations are potential :targets 
for assassination.~/ 
. The offenses are limited to conduct aimed at such persons because of their 
official du tie~ Or status 1 or the~_r political views, actions, or statements. Thus, 
for example, a conspiracy to kill or the killing of a foreign official, which is 
not politically motivated would not be. punishable under this statute. 
·The definition of official in section (d) (2) also provides that such per-
son must be an official of a foreign government or movement "with which the 
United States is not at war or against which the United States Armed forces have 
~/For example, Lurriumba was not an official of the Congolese government at the 
time of the plots against his life, and Trujillo, though the dictator, held no 
official governmental position in the latter period of his regime. 
Hlf 5095.'i Do,;,Id:32423525 Page 206 
