tive." ScconJ riuestion: v\lhc1t dccs the Amcric,111 gc•\·­
ernrnent • expect to g,1in from the block;idc? [s th,, 
economic isolation o{ Cul::-1 a punishment or il political 
maneuver? 
Kennedy's reply: "Arc you susgE'sting th,1t the polit-
• ical effectiveness of the blockade is uncertain [smile], 
You will see when you go to Cuba whether it is or not. 
In any case, we can't let Communist subversion win in 
- the other Latin Americ.rn countries. Two dikes are 
needed to contc1in Soviet expan~ion: the blockade on 
the one hand; a tremendous effort toward progress on 
the other. This is the problem in ,1 nutshell.Both. battles 
are equally difficult." (Silence.) Then, a bst comment: 
"The continuation of the blocbdc depends on the con­
tinuation of subversive activities." 
The interview was over. I did not really wish to sug­
gest anything, since I hacl never been to Cuba and, 
on the other hand, I had heard from all sides tales of 
the privations the Cuban people were suffering owing 
to their isolz,ted econo111ic situation. But I could see 
plainly that John Kennedy had doubts, and was seeking 
a way out. 
That same evening I recounted this conversation in 
detail to an America~ colle.:igue - ,111 intimate friend of 
President Kennedy, through whom l h,1d obtained this 
interview - and to the editor of The New Rqmlilic. 
Both my confidants, who knew the President a thou­
sand times better than I, agreeJ th,1t John F. Kcnnedv 
had never before expressed hi~so specifically .:inJ 
with such feeling on his ·\mdcrsLrnding of the first 
phase of the Castro revolution. They hesitated to dr,1w 
any political conclusions from his re111arks. However, 
they \Vere .not surprised at Kennedy's invit,1tion to 
come and see him ag,1in when I returned from Cuba. 
_In effect, John Kennedy displayed two b,1sic ch.uac­
teristics in his exercise of power: first, an overwhciming 
degree of empiricism and realism. A man without a 
particular doctrine, he reacted decisively to even ls,' and 
only to events. Nothing but the shock of collision with 
a problem was sufficient to make him come to a deci­
sion, and because of this, his 9ecisions \\'ere unpredic­
table. At. that point he had a consuming need for 
information, and this need had increased a- gre,1t dc.11 
since experience had taught him not to rely solely on 
official channels. 
After this, I went to Havana. 
In the "Pearl of the ~cs,,..· rum-perfumc-J and 
steeped i";' triumphant sensuality," .:is Cuba is described 
in those American tourist folders still lying about in 
the hotels of Havana, ! spent three closely packed and 
intensive weeks, but thinking ,111 along that I. would 
J never get to meet with Fidel Castro: I talked with form-
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Pa.ge 517 
crs. \\'ritcrs and painters, milit,1nts and counlcr-revo­
lulion,,ries, ministers and a111b,1ssa(~S - but Fidel rc-
111:1ined in.:icccssible. I h,1d been warned: he was snowed 
under ,,·ith wurk; as a result of the hurricane, the 
Cuban government had been obliged to revise its whole 
planning }-'rograrn; and then, above all, he no longcr 
h.1d any desire to receive any journalists, least of all 
\ Vcstern newsmen. I had practically given up, hope 
-when, on the evenipc gf wbat I \hgpght was to be my 
departure d] l C (the cainicioµs plane which links 
r • • leave the next day 
,vent up to my 
room at 10 in the evening and did not leave until 4 in 
the following morning. Here, I shall only recount that 
part of that interview which constitutes a reply to John 
F. Kennedy's remarks. 
Fidel listened with devouring and passionate inter­
est: he pulled at his beard, yanked his parachutist"s 
beret down over his eyes, adjusted his magui tunic, all 
the while making me the target of a thousand malicil'L. 
sp.:irks cast by his deep-sunk, live:y eyes. At one point 
I felt as though I were playing the role of that partner 
with whom he had as strong J desire to confer as to do 
battle; as !hough I myself were in a small way that 
intimate enemy in the White House whom Khrushchev 
described to F
0
idel as someone with \vhom "it is pos­
sible to talk." Three times_ he had me repeat certain re­
marks, particularly those in which Kennedy expressed 
his criticism of the Batista regime, those in which Ken­
nedy showed his imp.itience with the comments attrib­
uted to General de Gaulle, and lastly those in which 
Kennedy accused Fidel of having almost caused a war 
fatal to all humanity. 
When I stopped talking, I expected an explosion. 
fll5tead, I was treated to a lengthy silence and, at-the 
end of that silence, to a calm, composed, often humor­
ous, .:ilways thoughtful exposition. I don't know wheth­
er Fidel has changed, or whether these cartoons cari­
c.1 turing him as a ranting madman which appear in the 
Western press...rerhaps correspond_ fo a former reality. 
I only kn01v that at no t_ime during the two complete 
Jays I spent with him (and during which a great deal 
happened), did Castro abandon his composure and 
poise. Here too, I shall let Castro speak for himself, 
reserving only the possibility of correcting certain judg­
ments on these two political leaders based on my own 
experiences in Cuba. 
''! believe Kennedy is sincere," Fidel declared. "I 
.ib, believe th,,t today the expression of-:!.tiis sincerity 
could ha\'e • political significance. I'll explain what I 
111E',lll. J haven't forgottrp that Kennedy rco\cred ,,his 
electoral can1p'"1igp Jg,1inst Nixa □ on the theme of 
firmness toward Cuba. I have not forgotten the Ma­
chiavellian tactics and the cguivuLalion, the attempts at 
-
