13-00000 
could not hire or detail experienced federal employees, but rather had to hire 
new employees who had to undergo background investigations and be cleared at 
the Top Secret level. Locating and renovating space that was suitable for the '
1 
storage of classified materials was required. As a result, the Board could not 
begin an effective review of records until 1:},.e third quarter of our first year. 
We are pleased and proud that the Review Board and staff have been able to overcome 
these obstacles, and that we have developed an efficient and effective process for the 
review of records. All involved in this process want to see that the job is done, and do 
not want to cease now with a reasonable conclusion in sight. We want to finish the job 
we began, and with one additional year we can. • 
VII. The Job Ahead 
The additional-year of operations~ permit the Revi~ Board to finish its task by 
completing several major areas ofourworkO-P~ease be:assureci-thatth~are:= ::i r:~:~--.,::: ~: X;!-: ! ii"'.<".: 2. 
_ identifiable projects that aremtlcal to ,ertstiiiri!fthat th~~;(r;:&tl~off.is'"~:e6fflf,ie6{as'~; 1 '.' ,,,~:_0::., : ,:· ,:_: 
possible; that relevant Federal agencies have been held accountable, and that all that we • -
have done is documented in our final report. The Board would focus in our final year 
on the following: 
.. 
.. 
CIA Sequestered Collection. The Review Board has completed its review of the 
Oswald "201 file," the file created and maintained by the CIA ori Oswald and the 
assassination. The Review Board is now faced with the task of reviewing the 
agency's "Sequestered Collection," the large collection of files that was 
assembled by the CIA in response to requests made by the House Select 
Committee on Assassinations, chaired by Congressman Stokes, in the late 1970's. 
These records find their relevance to the assassination defined in part by the 
course of the HSCA investigation. The Sequestered Collection originally 
consisted of 63 boxes of CIA- and HSCA-originated records as well as 72 reels of • 
microfilm. Unfortunately, these records are in a confused order, poorly 
described, and are replete with duplicates. Some of these records are clearly of 
great significance, some are of only marginal interest, and the relevance of others 
cannot be identified~ 
FBI Sequestered Collection. The FBI divides its assassination records into two 
general categories. The first is the "Core and Related Files," consisting of nearly 
600,000 pages of files collected in the course of the massive FBI investigation into 
the assassination. The Review Board will complete its review of this significant 
collection by the end of FY 1997. The second, which the FBI refers to as its 
"HSCA records," is a large collection of records that were identified as being of 
interest to the HSCA and which remain to be reviewed by the Board. Like the 
7 
