. I 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS 'RUFF IDEALIST 
M. Progress of the September Overflight Program 
58. _. While the MRBM and IRBM deployment continued and· 
the first good ground reports began to filter out of Cuba, 
. :~ ::;r:= 
_, • I , •.-,•-
~the four-flight reconnaissance program approved on 10 Septem­
ber was being pushed forward. Unfortunately, this program 
was seriously delayed by bad weather. Not until 26 September 
cou_ld the· first successful mission be flown, over Banes and 
Guantanamo._ (A mission was flown on ·17 September but its • 
targets were completely cloud-covered) On 27 and 28 Septem­
ber the weather was bad again, but ori the 29th the Isle of 
Pines - Bay of Pigs mission was successfully flown. The 
weather again turned bad until 5 October, when the south 
coast peripheral mission.was accomplished .. The next day, 
the north coast peripheral mission aborted, but was success­
fully completed on 7 October. 
59. Thus, completion of the September program took 26 
days, from 12 September--the earliest date on which ~issions 
approved on the 10th could have been flown--through·7 October. 
On 20 of these days weather· was bad over the areas not yet •. • 
overflown (the criterion for launch was a forecast ot less~ 
than 25 percent cloud cover). On four days successf-ul mis~ 
sions were flown. On one day a mission was launch~d but 
aborted, and one day was used to ale~t a mission which was 
laun6hed the following day. Availability of aircraft w~s • 
not a limiting factor. • 
···60. These missions accomplished their purpose, i.e., 
.they. established almost completely the location of SA-2 
sites on the island. They did not--and, since they were 
designed to avoid SAM-defended areas, could not--detect the 
ballistic missile deployments then under way: The combined 
eff.ect c;,f the Special Group decision of 10 September and 
the weather conditions of the period fol~owing was to delay 
consideration of what reconnaissance activities should next 
be undertaken over Cu~a until early October~~ 
-29-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF.IDEALIST 
