13-00000 
, . . . . • ~ 
--- ·' of 3 or J,. :trienda, vithallt establlsbing external. rebel att111ation, to 
~paint L'64, etc., an walls or to coi&'l.t isolated acts. of sabotage. The 
• .~se. liOUld be to establish rebel connotation and to generate leadership • 
. - _.- !rbis would lead to tbe establishment of rudimentary ce:u.u1ar training 
in secliti0\18 activity. M1D1mal. suppcy-of critical. items should be initiated 
to subversi-ve groups v:lthin Cuba on a case-by-case basis. Potential leaders. 
shoul4 1:'9 identified •. Cont:lngency p]ann1ng, covert and unilateral, should 
. . . . . 
continue. i'he number of Cuban exiles taken into the United States Armed 
Forces for traiD1ng and ·formation of reserve uni ts should be significantly 
increased. A s1milar program for "freedom fighters for· Cuba" should ~ 
undertaken :ror· volunteers from other LA.. nations. At a later. point in the 
crescendo, departures f'rom the Cuban armed forces in organized units shoul.d 
be encouraged. All covart ettort should be exerted toward comdi.Dating 
the cells, pockets, and gr011ps resisting_ Castro, iilside and outside Cuba. 
!l'his would be. a :transit~on period from sporadic acts 1n isola~ic:,n into 
orpnized subversion. :hel ,an4 food supplles; shOill4 be· sa1>otase4. An 
organized SU:PJ.lcy system sh0Ul4 be put into effect vith large numbers of 
fish1.ng craft situated arO!Jnd the island .to make both schec:lul.ed_ supply. 
~ ael1:veries and dell-veries ~ opportunity. As -vari0\18.groups are .identi­
fied in revolt, tbey should be 'WOrked into the supply system. Rew LA. and 
Cuban fighters_ traiD1ng outside. Cuba, should be introduced in the seme. way 
. . • . . 
1.Jito these organized moveants -within Cuba. i'here shoul4 be frequent 
leaks of plmmed ·US in'VBBiOD and appropriate denials to f'rustra'.f;e the 
suspicious Castro. neet and air "training" dembnstrations should be 
scheduled ott .Cuba. At tbe mme time it should be made clear to rebel 
C leaders that 8D externally launched invasion is J?,ot to be expected until 
a reVQlution bas come from within, vith external. loglstic assistance. 
- 8 -
