13-00000 
r. fl 
Mr. John Pereira -
January 28, 1997 
Page2 
Security file.1 We have identified references to one or more oth~r possible Oswald files 
including possible soft files designated as follows: Cl/SI, Cl/SIG, CI/LSN, and 
CS/LSN. 
1. Please identify, as specifically as possible, each file held by CIA on Oswald 
at the time of the assassination of President Kennedy. 
2. Other than for the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please explain when each 
Oswald file was opened, the purpose for the opening of the file, and the 
documents that were in the file at the time of the assassination. 
3. For the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please identify which records (and the 
total number that) were in the file at the time of the assassination. 
4. To the extent that Counterintelligence and the Office of Security 
maintained pre-assassination files on Oswald, please explain why those 
offices maintained files on Oswald prior to the assassination. In 
answering this question, please make appropriate references to the 
Clandestine Services Handbook (CSHB) and to any other materials 
(including organizational charts) that would help explain the -
jurisdictional and organization reasons for which CI and OS would have 
maintained such files. 
For each question, please explain the basis for the answer and the sources (records or 
persons) whom you consulted fo answer the question. To the extent that you are not 
able to answer a question completely, please so indicate and provide the best reasonable 
answer. If, during the course of your research, you learn that any record relating to a 
pre-assassination file or record has been destroyed, please provide us with all available 
information related to the destruction of the records or files. 
These queries should be interpreted in their broadest reasonable sense. To the extent 
that you question whether certain responses may be within the scope of our request, 
please let us know and we can advise you whether we would wish to include it. We 
anticipate that the responses to these questions will be referenced in CIA's Final 
Compliance Statement. 
1One Office of Security file on Oswald (or relating to Oswald) may have been 
numbered 351-164. In addition, Margaret Stevens may have held an Office of Security 
"MS-" file on Oswald. 
