13-00000 
,-•flO,v . 
,~ of' 
.. 
.. 0 
: .,, 
"' C < (•: en 
.,, ~,, 
,~.,,, 1)0 
November 9, 1995 
HAND DELIVERED 
Mr. John Pereira, Director 
Historical Review Group 
Center forthe Study of Intelligence 
Central Intelligence Agency 
Washington, D.C~, 20505 
0 
Re: ARRB requests for evidence 
Dear John: 
Assassination Records Review Board 
600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530 
(202} 724-0088 • Fax: (202} 724--0457 
\ 
I thought that it might be helpful to you if I were to provide you with our current 
. assessment of the status of our review of the Agency's ass~ination records and point 
to where we would like to proceed in the future. 
I would like to begin by acknowledging the efforts made by the Historical Review 
Group to facilitate our review of records. It has been, as you know, a difficult and time:­
consuming.process both for the Agency and the Review Board. We very much 
appreciate the personal cooperation of you and your staff. 
We continue to be concerned by the slow progress that has been made. Al~ough we 
perceive U\at the task has-been more difficult and time:-consuming than Cohgress 
anticipated;wejtave found that the careful education process in which we have been 
involved has helped educate us with respect to your concerns and, we hope, has helped 
demonstrate to you the Review Bo·ard's concerns. • 
~ ' 
We must, however, begin to pick up the pace. In many circumstances we are reviewing 
and then re:-reviewing the same documents over and over again. We are also 
frequently put in the position of not being provided with evidence in a timely manner 
so that we can make our presentations to the Board. While many of these difficulties 
are understandable - and perhaps even inherent to the start-up of the process in which 
we are engaged - we must expedite the process. Rather than dealing with dozens of 
records at Board meetings, we need to move towards a schedule where hundreds of 
. records wilLbe reviewed at Board meetings. From our perspective, it seems that it is 
essential that the Agency be prepared to allocate significant additional resources to the 
process of reviewing the records and making evidence available to the Board . 
.. f 
Bot.RD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff• Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell 
