~,, -~--•Hist~ry of lae Secret Army Organazlion 
CONFIDEN'l'!'Xr, 
One early morning in February, 1970, a group of six Minutemen leaders from 
four states nwt secretly in Narthern Arizona to discuss the crisjs that the arrest and 
imprisonment of two top M:nutenu~n leaders and the ass a s·s in a ti on of a third had 
brought on the organization. Although some of these men had met before in their roles 
as l\Unutemen group leaders, others were meeting for the first time. 
\ 
After• mnch discussion, two principal points wer-e agreed upon. First, that the 
M.inutenwn as a natio·nal coordiI1ation organization of militant right-wing groups had 
effectively been destroyed by the pro-comnu::.nist elements inside the Justice Depart­
ment. While indi viclual units still existed thr-0ughout the co an try, few had the financial 
support or leadership to be really effective. Second, that the need for such a coordi-
,nating organizati9n was greater than ever in v-iew of the increased revolutionary activity 
by conummists in the United States. 
\Vi.th these two points_ in mind, suggestions were p'lt forward on a course of 
action to be 'followed. After a meeting that lasted all that day and fa.r in{o,lhe next 
~orning, an overall pla:r;i of action was finally ag1~eed up'?n. AH p~~se.~i..,~ireed to 
merge their i'!'}di v-idual units together and form a new organization utj.der· tne command 
. of one leader elected from ainong themse!ves, with the other five to· be mem)fers of a 
General Staff that would advise and assist the new leader. •• • · • ., 
While retaining the basic programs and policies of the Minutemen, it was 
decided that not only should th.is new organization-have a different name, but also a 
completely new ch.ain of command and organizational structure. If the new organiza­
tion \Vas going to survive the attacks that befell the old one, a whole new approach 
would be needed. Never again could the arrestor death of a few lead~rsbe allowed to 
cripple the entire organization. 
For this reason it was decided that only a highly disciplined military type 
orgainization with a definitechainofcommandwould have any chance of success. This 
then, was the beginning of the Secret Arm_y Organization. Beginning with an original 
force of hard core patriots that numbered fewer than two hundred, the Se_cr~t Army 
Organization began the·job of picking up the pieces and continuing to fight for. ~~tional 
and individual freedom. Using this cadre of dedicated personnel as a nucleus, the 
S. A. 0. has been recruiting and .trainjng new members in the skills ~hey will need as 
. the freedom fighters of tomorrow. 
.. 
The leaders of the S. A. 0. have no idea of fighting a last ditch stand. We have 
no desire to commit suicide oursclvesror to let our members do so. \Ve have a 
strateg_v which we believe will ultimately lead to victory. Only one thin 6 is essential. 
\Vt.J must start preparing and trairiing NO\\'! We of the S. A. 0. believe that ou.r country 
. 'is worthy of any sncrificc. If you feel- the same way, w~ invite you to join us. 
CONFIDENTIAL.-
