13-00000 
PUBLIC LAW 102-526-0C.l'. 26, 1992- 106 S'rAT. 3455 
conducted by the Review Board with regard to specific aaaas• 
einaUon records• and ·• 
(B) a etatement, buecl 011 a review or the rrocooc!inp • 
aild in con!ormlt,y with the declslom reflected t!iereln, dee• 
ignating a recommended •~od time at wblch or a apeclfied 
occunence Collowin.! wblcli the material may be appropriately 
disclosed to the pubilc under tb1s Ad:.. , 
(4)(A) Folio~ lta review and a determination that an UIU• = ~:r..'C..u. ~ r.r.u: r ~= ....... [!.. 
Board ahall notify the head or the o ting bod,y ot lta determlna• 
tion andlubliah a cop7 o!the dete ticm ln the Federal~ 
within 1 days after the determln.atlon le made. . ' 
(B) Contemporaneous notice shall bo made to the President 
!or Review Board determinations ~ uocutive branch aaaas­
sination records, and to the ,oversight committees designated ln 
this Ar:.t ln the cue o! legislative branch records. Such notloe 
ahall_contaln 11 written uncl11sifiod~catio11 ~:~c dlacloaure or poetponement or .diaclocure, Including an tlon ot the 
application of any etandards contalnod ln aoc:tlon 6. 
Cd) Pusmum.u. Atmroamr OVn REvmw Bo.w> Di:ra:luaNA-
TION.- . 
(1) PuBuc DISCLOSUB.B • oa l'OS'n'ONBKJCHT OP DISCLO­
SURE.--After the Review Board Jiu mad• a Cormal determlna• 
tiozi concernlng the public diaclOIUl'e or~ o£ disclo­
sure or an eucutive branch 1111Min•tion record or lntormation 
within such 11. reco~ or or~ ln!ormation contained ln an 
u8&18in.ation record. -obtalnod or develo~ aolelr within the 
executive branch. the President aba1l haw t6e sole and 
nondelenble authority .to ~ the d1ec1oame or Poltt>one­
ment o( such record or ln!ormatlon under ,the atana.rcfa set 
forth in section 6, and the Prea!dent aba1l provide the Review 
Board with an unclaaiified written certUicatlon ~ the 
President's dec:iaion within 30 ~ after the Review Board's 
determination and notice to the executive bruch agency aa 
reqwred under thla Act, ~the Justification Cor the Presf. 
dent's· decision., including the applii:a],le grounds for postpone­
ment under section 6, accompanied by a copy or the ldenWica• 
tioo aid required under sectio~ 4. 
(2) PERIODIC uvr:EW.--A:r,.y uecutlve branch aaaassinatlon 
record postponed by- the Prealdent shall be suluect to the 
requirements of periodic review, downgrading and aoclasalfica­
tion of classified 1nCormation., and public disclosure in the collec­
tion set forth in section 4. 
(3) REcoRD OF PRESIDENTIAL POSTPONEMENT.-The Review Federal 
Board shall, upon its recelpt1 publlab in the Federal Register l!eclrter, 
a copy of anr unclassified wntten certification, statement and pubUcaUon. 
other matenaJs transmitted b_y or on behalf of the President 
with regard to postponement or aasa.saination records. 
(e) NOTICE TO PuBuc.-Ever,y 30 calendar days, beginning Federal 
on the date that is 60 calendar days after the date on- whicli ~r, 
the Review· Board first approves the ~tponement of disclosure pu lion. 
or an assassination record, the Review Board shall publlab in the 
Federal Register a notice that aummarizea the postponements 
approved by the Review Board or lnltiated by the lTeildent, the 
Ho1,1ae of Reprea~ntatlvea, or the Senate, including a deac:riptlon 
106 STAT. 3456 PUBLIC LAW 102-526-0C'I'. 26, 19~2 
•• USC2l07 nou. 
orthe subject, originating agency, length or other physical descrip• 
tion, &lld each groundJor poitponement.that ia relied upon. 
.· . CO .REPo&TB BY flm RBvmr BoAJU>,-{1) The 1Review Board 
shall report Its actlvitle, to tha leadership of the Congress, the 
Committee on Government Operations oC the House or Rep• 
resentatlvea, 1he Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, 
the _President. the Arcblviat, and. the -head or any Government 
omce whose-records have been the subject oCReview l3oard activity. 
(2) The 6nt report shall be Issued on the date that is 1 
year after the date of enactment of th1a Ad., and subsequent reports 
ever,r 12 _months thereafter until termination of the Review Board. 
. (3) 4 report under paragraph (I) shall include the following mformAtion: 
(A) A financial report oCthe expenses for all·offieial activi• 
ties and r-equlrementa of the. Review Board and its penioMol. 
CB) The progress made on review, tnuumlasion to the 
Arehlvlat, and public dlseloeure or asaaasination records. 
(C) The estimated tlmo and volume of aaaa.ssio.atfon nx:ords 
involved ln the i:ompletion or the Review Board's perform1U1ce 
under this Act. · 
(D) ~ ipecial problems, lnelud.ln{ ~ueats and tho level 
of cooperatiop. of Government omcea, with regard tq tho ability 
of the Review Board to operate u required by this Act. 
(E) A record or i;eview actMtlea, including a rcoord . or 
postponement decfalo111 b1 t&e Review Board or o~er related 
actlo111 authorized by this ··Act. and a record of the volume o!reconla reviewed mid eoatponed. 
1 . (F) Suaeatlona a.nil requeata to Coagreas for additional eglalatlve authority needs. 
CG) kl ap~clfx contafnlnr cop. !ea or reports or postponed 
recorda to the Arch!vlat~ ·under section 9(cX3) made alnce the date or the p • • • report under this subsection. 
(4) At least 90 calendar days • ore completing its work, the 
Review Board shall ~rovide written notice to the President and 
~~ of lta inte~tion to terminate its operations at a specified 
SEC. 10. DISCtOsmu: OP <mma MATERIALS AND ADDmoNAL 
S'nJDY. 
(a) MATERIALS UNDER SEAL OF CoURT;- • 
(1) J'be Review Board may request the Attorney Gcnenu 
to ~tition any court in_ the United States or abroad to release 
any 1nformatfon relevant to the aasa11ination or President John 
F. KeMedy that is held under seal of the cowt · 
(2~~ The Review Bfard may request the Attorney General 
~ petition any court 111 the United States to release any 
1nConnation relevant to the aaaasaination of President John 
F. Ken~edy that is held under the lnjWlction or secrecy or a grand Jury. 
CB) A request for disclosure of assassination materials 
und!r this Act shall be deemed to constitute a showi~ of 
particularized need under Rule 6 of the Federal Rules of Cnnu• nalProeedure. 
(b) SENSE OF C<iXORESS.-,.lt is the sense.of the Congress that.­
. (1) the Attorney General should assist the Review Board 
in good faith to unseal any records that the Review Boord 
