14-00000 
ARTICLE II. ·RP.lBt!onohlp or Employee to CIA. Although for 
all intents and purpooea it will appear as th~ugh the Employee ta 
em.ployed by the De\psrtment or St.ate ao indicated in ARTICLE I above, 
he shall in fact be employed by and under the operational control 
or CIA. In so Car as possible, he will be expected to abide by 
the rules, regulations, -customary practices, and courtesies or the 
Foreign Service, but his ultimate rcoponelbility will be t.o CIA. 
In the event br any\ conflict of authority in the field between the 
Department of State and CIA, the matter shall be referred to the 
ADSO f~r resolution, • • 
1. The line or authority for the Employee shall be as 
Collowa: 
r a) 
establishment. 
r b) 
( c I 
rd) 
( e I 
Senior Representative or OSO at Foretrn s~rvlce 
050 Foretrn Branch Chief in Washington. 
Chief or Operations, 080. 
ADSO 
Director or CIA. 
2. All travel shall be directed by the ADSO in accord• 
ance with ARTICLE I, Section 3. The Employee shall request ap­
propriate Foreign Service clearanc~ for travel through the Senior 
OSO Representative at the Foreirn Service establishment, who shall 
be responsible Co~ arranging such clearance. 
3. It is understood and agreed th«t the Employee's over­
seas assignment le to be for a minimum period of two years Crom 
the dat.e of hie arrival at hie overseas poet oC duty, unless ter• 
mlnated by the Government for its convenience. If the assignment 
le terminated in lees than twenty-four months at the Employee's 
. request, the ·rollowlng shall prev.all: 
(a J If the Employee resigns in lees than twelve months 
from the date or hie arrival at hie overseas poet of duty, he 
shall reimburse CIA for all travel expenses involved in the trans­
portation or himself, hie immediate family, household roods, and 
personal effects to the foreign station, and pay all such expenses 
for return to th·e, United States. Such expenses for return to the r 
United States and amounts expended by the Government on account 
or euo~ travel and transportation shall be considered a debt due 
by the Employee to the United States. 
(bl IC the Employee desires to terminate between the 
twelfth a~d twenty-fourth month Crom the date of hie arrival at 
hie overseas post of duty, he shall pay all expenses for the 
travel and transportation of himself, hie immediate family, house­
bold roods, and personal effects to the United Sta.tea. 
-3-
