[180-10143-1~456) • j 20~5 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] 
SECRET Betsy palmer 
~~ of Files - Manuel Ray y Rivero 
C:::. DCD Documents -... 
May 2, 1978 
11JJ..0819 
1. Memo dated 24 • Oct 1962 to Chief, Contact Di vision, from Chief, San 
Francisco Office 
'! 
SUbject: Suitability of Manuel Ray and Miro Cardona for Important 
Roles in a Possible New Cuban Government 
rofessor of Political 
of exceptional value. 
5 former Castro supporters 
a broad political g t the ~ression from many of the 
a "possible Communist sleeper". 
information, because accusations were 
_ that they suspec 
~ reluctant to pass along this 
road. • 
2. • ·?fiEJfiomation report dated 16 July 1962 am Earlier 
Source: Cuban National (Alien File #A-12570921) who asked for an 
interview on occasion of first contact with CIA. 
Cannot vouch for his bona fides. Had credential indicating membership i_ 
branch of revolutionary army's intelligence service, now in exile in U. : 
and mainti.ing connections with colleagues in that country. 
A friend of his reports plans to assassinate top Castro leadership in CUba. 
To be done by poison -- "Clostridium Botulinum" which is strong, odorless, 
and tasteless. Takes about 12 days to kill. About 5cc would do the job. 
Waiting for next visit of major delegation from a Connnunist country --
dinner in honor of the occasion should bring together most of the important 
members of the regime and that is when the attempt will be ma.de. 
2. Cable dated Oct. 3, 1961 - WA CITE NYOR 4902 Support (Travis) info L/A 
:Branch from Daniels. Source is Ernesto Dezaldo - CUban lawye:- now 
living in New York City. Stated the MRP in Havana is far less radical than 
under the leadership of Ray, who has been completely discredited. in recent 
months. Primary purpose today is (a) assassination of top leaders in Castro 
regime and (B) sabotage of important industrial and government installations 
in Havana. Strength of MRP in Havana estimated. to exceed 1,000 -- success 
measured more in terms of fund raising ability and blowing up of buildings. 
3. Information dated June 4, 1961, Subject: Underground Student Leader 
Cormnents on Post-invasion Cuba. Reporting officer talked with 
ISIDRO BORJA, on the leaders of BRE. Borja sa::rs top DRE member-s in jail 
or in a friendly erabassy iL Havana but said new leaders have been selected. 
and will resume sabotage activities shortly. Thought the underground could 
restore tension in Cuba in 3-4 months. However, said outside help needed 
to get rid of Castro. Claimed that prior to invasion, is was possible to 
buy almost anything in Cuba from Castro officials -- they were tainted by 
corruption. Since Castro's victory at Bay of Pigs, his ~ular support is 
estimated to be around 80-85%. Most support is out of fear because the 
people believe he will be in power permanently. Borja said DRE outside of 
euba working hard for release of former leader, Alberto Muller from prison. 
SECRET 
. .. 
