L -·---
DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING UNITED STATES 
POLICY IN VIETNAM, WASHINGTON, D.C., 
JANUARY 15, 1968 
INFORMATION CONCERNING {INTERNAL SECURITY) 
and other women making the trip will pay all their own 
expenses. No expenses are contemplated while the women are 
in Washington, D.C. inasmuch as arrangements have been made 
for the women to stay with other WSP members in th.e 
... 
Washington, P.C. area. Source one advised that it is 
contemplated all the women will stay in Washington, D.c. until 
Tuesday, January 16, 1967. 
Source one advised it was reported the women from 
across the nation would gather at the Union Depot, Washington, D.C. 
at 11:30 A.M. on January 15, 1968. Source one further reported 
it is hoped ten thousand women will participate in the 
demonstration. After the gathering at Union Depot, the women 
will march in solemn procession, all wearing black, to the 
steps of the capitol building where the petition containing 
the redress of grievances will be presented to the Congress. 
Source one further advised it had been reported that Representative 
McCormick and Senator Mansfield had agreed to receive the 
petition. Representative McCormick, according to source one, 
had agreed to accept fifteen women in his office at which time 
he ·would receive the petition, but source one advised the· 
JRB now wants Rep~esentative McCormick and Senator Mansfield 
to accept the petition on the steps of the capitol µ,uilding 
in order that they might get news coverage. After .the petition 
has been presented, the JRB wants the redress of grievances 
read into the Congressional Record. 
Further activities of the JRB while in Washington, D.C. 
are to include a three hour "Women's Congress", possibly on the 
grounds of Georgetown University. 
Mary Clarke pointed out that although the original 
intentio~ had been to have only those women participate 
in the JRB who were willing to risk arrest for civil disobedience, 
she stated at the above meeting that no civil disobedience is 
anticipated in view of the large number of organizations 
participating who are opposed to such civil disobedience. 
However, she further stated that individuals are not going to 
be discouraged who might elect to create civil disobedience. 
- 5 - ., . 
b!'!' .. 8:8~ Docld:32989545 Page 324 
