movement
11 
and developing an "operational schedule for sabotage actions inside 
Cuba." (Lansdale Ex. 3, p. 5, 7.)* 
In focusing on intelligence collection, propaganda and various sabotage actions, 
Lansdale's tasks were consistent with the underlying strategy of Mongoose to build 
gradually towards an internal revolt of , the Cuban people. (See p. above.) 
Lansdale transmitted a copy of the tasks to Robert Kennedy on January 18, 1962, 
with a handwritten note stating 11my review does not include the sensitive wor I 
have reported to you; _ I felt you preferred infonning the President privately. 
11 
Lansdale testified that this did not refer to assassinations and that he "never took 
up assassination with either the Attorney General or the President."** Lansdale 
testified that he could not precisely recall the nature of this "sensitive work" 
but that it might have involved a special trip be made under cover to meet Cuban 
leaders in Florida and to assess their political strengths. (Lansdale, p. 30.) 
*There was testimony regarding one Lansdale plan that a witness thought was an example 
of Lansdale's "perspicacity" in planning operations. Parrott, the Secretary to the 
Special Group Augmented, testified: • 
"I'll give you one example of Lansdale's perspicacity. He 
had a wonderful plan for getting rid of Castro. This plan 
consisted of spreading the word that the Second Coming of 
Christ was :imminent and that Christ was against Castro (who) 
was anti-Christ. And you would spread this word around Cuba, 
and then on whatever date it was, that there would be a mani­
festat_ion of this thing. And at that time- -this is absolutely 
true--and at that time there would be an American submarine 
which would surface just over the horizon off of Cuba and send 
up some starshells. And this would be the manifestation of the 
Second Coming and Castro would be overthrown ... " 
'1Vell, some wag called this operation~-by this time Lansdale was 
something of a joke in many quarters--and somebody dubbed this 
Elimination by Illumination. (Parrott, p. .) 
**Harvey testified that he never received any instructions from Lansdale to under-­
take assassinations, although as noted below (p; ), in August 1962, LausdaJe,asked 
Harvey to consider the feasibility of a plan for the "liquidation" of Cuban)leaders. 
(Harvey, 7 / / 7 5 , p . . ) 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 154 
