13-00000 
··~ 
04/2~/-97 WED 15: 54 FAX zoz 7Z4 0457 
__!..~-~--.-----. ~- --
-2-
Review Board, the ARAB staff, the CIA, and the FBI to complete the significant amount • 
of work that remains; .and finally, to provide reasonably consistent standards for the .. 
review of postponements that would apply equally to CIA and FBI records. • 
The following are,ln summary form, guidelines for reviewing postponements in the 
. Segregated Collections. 2 
. . 
CIA Source and FBI Informant and National Security Asset Postponements 
. . . 
There are, of course, similarities and differences between· FBI Informants and CIA 
sources; Lik~ FBI informants and national security assets, CIA sources may or may not 
be paid for the infonnatlon that they provide and they may or may not be pmvlders of 
inJormatlon over the long-term. When providing Information to the Bureau, FBI • . 
infonnants generally are understood to be cooperating with law enforcement officials for • 
a legal and legitimate. purpose. It is .often the case~ although not always, that FBI • 
informants understand that at some point their name might surface in conjunction with a 
criminal prosecution and U,at they may need to testify in court. Foreign CIA source$ 
and FBI national security &$Sets, however, are not necessarily deemed to be \ 
cooperating with law enforcement officials but may, In fact, be committing the crime of 
espionage against their native country.by cooperating with US authorities .. Furthermore, 
unlike FBI Informants, CIA sources and FBI national securtty assets presume that their 
n·ames wlU not be released publicly and they certainly presume (in the ordinary course) • 
that their Identities Will not surface in crlmlnal trials. .As a practical matter, it is generally 
much easier today for the FBI to locate a former informaot who resides In the United 
States than it Is for the CIA and FBI to locate former sources and national security • 
assets. 
Despite these differences - differences which would generally suggest a greater 
degree of protecti9n being owed to CIA sources and FBI. national security asse1s - the 
issues In terms of postponements are fundamentally slmllar. 
2The existing "NBR' guidelines allow the Review Board to remove fmm detailed 
consideration those records or files that truly have no apparent relevance to the 
assasslnaUon. Nevertheless; a significant number of files In the Segregated Collections 
contain records that shed·some light on Issues ~at the HSCA_explored as potentially 
relevant to the assassination .of President Kenneay .. The followlng criteria would apply 
to all records In the Segregated CollEtctlons, Including records containing som~ NBR 
redactions, 
