. ' '< 
t 
• I 
• 
• 
16. 
17. 
SECTION 107. [IN ... AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND COI.DENTIAL SOURCES; 107W 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
Reliability of assets 
Reliability of all assets must be constantly checked. If any ~oubt 
exists concerning asset, give consideration to use of various inves­
tigative techniques to insure asset is completely reliable and is 
furnishing accurate information. 
Assignment of pseudonyms 
In sensitive cases, where necessary; if asset will sign reports or 
receipts; or if asset is an OA receiving operational funds from a 
foreign intellige~c~ service or payment from the u. s. which requi£es 
bookkeeping records, assign pseudonym for these purposes. 
18. Recording of information received from asset 
When recording information from any asset in a communication prepared 
for dissemination, characterize the asset either as one "with whom 
contact has been insufficient to determine reliability," or as one 
"who has furnished reliable information in the past." 
a. Oral information 
(1) Information pertaining to asset's personal status is recorded 
in 134 main file, e.g., marital difficulties, change of 
employment, change of residence. 
(2) Information pertaining to operational administrative matters 
is recorded in asset's 134 subfile .. When this data, e.g., 
location of meet sites, times of meets, any data which tends 
to identify asset, is furnished to FBIHQ, it should not be 
included in communications prepared for dissemination, but 
in cover pages. When the asset is a member of the military, 
sub~it, in addition to the communication for dissemination 
described immediately above, a communication for dissemination 
containing all operational administrative details for the 
information of the asset's service. 
(3) Information o.f intelligence value should be submitted to FBIHQ 
via appropriate communication, and, if of interest to other 
u. S. agencies or friendly foreign services, should be sub­
mitted to FBIHQ in form suitable for dissemination. 
(4) Execute and maintain form FD-209 in asset's main file concern­
ing contacts with asset. If contacts produced information of 
intelligence value, record only date of contacts; if negative, 
record as such. 
b. Written information 
(1) Written information prepared by asset, or by FBI SA for 
signature of asset, pertaining to operational activities 
(not a written report passed by asset to his principal) 
must be dated at the top of page one and signed at the bottom 
of each numbered page by the asset using his pseudonym. rhis 
material may be maintained as an attachment to a serialized 
memorandum in the asset's subfile (punched holes are allowed), 
or in a la section of the asset's 134 subfile. 
(2) Information received in this manner should be devoid of FBI 
identification, block or time stamps, serialization number 
or other administrative markings. 
(3) Only the original need be maintained; asset must not keep 
a copy . 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
31 
10-15-74 
I NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1176 ------' 
