7. Contractuc Relationshiu - USJPRS: .le Agency 
organi:ation, USJPR~~ has a contractual assoc~ation with 
approxi2ately 1,500 independent contractors and 45 contract 
employees. These individuals are unKitting of the fact that 
they really work for CIA in the performance of their domestic 
activities. USJPRS (United States Joint Publications Research 
Serv1ce) is a part of FBIS. They perform a translation service 
of unclassified docunents for the Governillent. The independent 
contractdrs ~ork in their c~n ho~es and are give~ assig;~ents 
as the need arises. The contruct employees ar~ 11 integrated 11 
into the Bureau of Standards and are located in Washington, D. C. 
They are paid and administered by the Bure~u. CIA reimburses 
the Bureau. Their basic contracts of employment are prepared 
in Contract Personnel Division. 
• 8. Hunt Reauests a Locknjcker: This is. a record of 
External E~ploy~cnL Assistance Dranch's action on a request 
from Ho~ard Hunt for a lockpicker who might be retiring or 
resigning from the Agency. 
Sometime in the spring of 1972, Iden 38 \Jf EEAB 
received a call from Hc,,;ard Hunt ,,·ho asked .!.:den 38 1£ he had a 
• retiree or resignee who was accomplished at picking locks. 
Iden 38 sent him a resume on Thor..a.s _ _Amato who retired. 
31 July 197i.: Id~n 38 did not document his EEAB record 
to show the date of this exchange, but Mr. Thomas-Hester (who 
also works in EEAB) opines that it occurred sometime between 
March and May 1972. 
Al~ of the above information was reported to the Office 
of Security on 4 October 1972 following the FBI's contact with 
the Agency regarding Howard Hunt. 
9. Resur.1e Sent to !--IcCord.: Ross Lambert·, a contract 
employee ,~ho retired in September 1971, was a client of the 
External Enploynent Assistance Branch in his search for ·a job 
after retirement. One of the leads given to Lambert was· 
James McCord's security business. EEAB sent a resume to 
McCord, but Lambert was not hired. 
Jn mid-summer 1972, Mr. Lambert telephoned EEAB from· 
Chicago. (He had a.job there with the Halifax Security Co., 
a lead provided by EEAB, but until this telephone call he had 
3 
LNW-3ftz'%·-E>ocld:3:z9-89ti24 Page 38 
