•-, 
) 
) 
,,_ " SECTION' 107. pURITY INFORM.AnTS Mm CONFIDEN , LL SOURCES 107N 
• • • • (2} Residence and employment (If no change since last justification 
letter, merely state "no change. 11 ) 
Current membership in subversive organizations 
Summary of information furnished and/or services rendered during 
pertinent period 
(5) Amount paid for services and expenses·by month 
{Initial justification letter should set forth amount, if any, 
ever paid under SAC authority.) 
Type and number of meetings attended and other activity 
Number of written and oral statements submitted 
(List separately.) 
Information furnished of unusual value 
Approximate number of persons on whom informant furnished coverage 
and their importance . 
(Steps being taken to advance informant] 
Stability and reliabil~ty . ,·-·> ., . . 
{Set forth personal weaknesses, domestic difficulties, indications 
••• -. ,_ c.· o:( untrust~vorthiness or unreliability,. or other similar problems . 
presented by informant, and steps being taken to.prevent any such 
situations from later becoming source of embarrassment to the 
Bureau.) 
(12) Indoctrination against disclosure 
{State ~hether every opportunity has been taken to properly 
indoct1 ··:ete informant against making any disclosure of his 
• •,,_' - .. relati,· -:,ip wi t_h B:ureau thro·ugh a_ny media.)· . 
•• {: ~) .A~: ne,_· .ary action taken on info¾m~ti~n furnished 
. (~ ) Miocel_, .. ous . . . 
{Any other matters concerning informa._nt I s operation which should 
be brought to Bureau's attention) 
{Where applicable, substitute potential informant, confidential 
source, panel source, or source of information for the word "informant. 11) 
c. When payment to an informant has been authorized for a definite 
p~riod of time, advise the Bureau at least two weeks in advance of the 
expiration of the period for 11hich payment has been authorized. as to 
whether the services of the informant are to be continued. 
d. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments. Follo1·1 form in 
subsection 3b. 
e. Letters requesting authority to continue (increase, decrease) payments 
to an informant should be submitted in duplicate except that the 
copy should consist only of the first page of the le·tter. When 
payments as requested by the field are approved, the single-page 
copy will be stamped "Approved" at the Bureau and. returned. If the 
recommendation is not approved, correspondence will be prepared. 
and transmitted to the field. 
f. In order for this system to function properly, payment letters must 
be explicit. 
g. When payments are authorized by the Bureau, it is the personal responsi­
bility of ~ach SAC definitely to assure himself that full value is 
being received. 
h. Disoontinuance of payments 
If at any time it appears the informatLon being produced by the 
informant is no~,; commensurate with the payments being macle to him, 
the payments should be immediately discontinued or adjusted accordingly 
and the Bureau promptly advised. 
i. "Extraordinary expenses 
In connection with the operation of paid informants, if any extrl).or­
dina.ry expenses are anticipated for which approval has not been given, 
obtain specific Bureau authority. 
19 
5-12-61 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529- 1423 
