FS: 
ML: 
FS: 
ML: 
FS: 
-42-
a Wednesday and the whole thing ... 
So what happened? 
fell through. Al said he had to give them back to 
the underworlds, to his source. So he took them 
back and then Oleg, you know, I had to talk my 
way out of it. It was just one of the flubs. But 
anyway after I left my husband Oleg kept asking for 
me, kept coming directly to the apartment and say­
ing, "Louis, I don't believe you two split, you two 
go, she left. I don't believe it." And my hush.and 
said "yes,.she did leave. It's her own problems, 
Oleg, you know, forget about it." And he said, 
"No, it's not possible. You must stay together. 
You must stay. together." Anyway, he kept coming, 
about four times and asking my husband, until my 
husband made a joke of it and said Oleg. wants to 
see you. I mean he's made it damn plain that he 
wants to see you. In other words if you're . 
finished I'll take over. Where is she living? My 
husband tells him I'm living on 88th Street. Now 
I talked to my husband and I said what did you do 
that for? Tell him I'm living on,88th Street? 
You know, because I know he wants to go out with 
me. You can feel it, I can feel it, the, you know? 
So I call up,Uncle Al meantime is transferred to 
Newark, I get another case agent. Louis gets a 
case agent for the building and he works alone, 
without me. The other agent is· John Kotter . 
. with the FBI? 
FBI, 69th Street. I call up John Kotter. I said, 
"John, I hear your taking. Al's place!!, and I. meet 
him. Drop things, start things, drop things, 
different assignments, then we get to Oleg. I said 
look, Oleg is bothering Louis. He wants to go out 
with me. And John Kotter says, "Beautiful, that is 
a beautiful setup. Let's call him up.
11 
I said, 
"Hey,.wait a minute. Either do this sophisticated, 
alright? . First I' 11 send him a Christmas card and 
sign it Ilonka Marischa, you know? I'll put my 
phone number on the bottom, something you know? 
Or I'll happen to bejthere when he's going into the 
building, or I' 11 bump into him. 
11 
I said you don't 
just call himup. You know that's going to be like 
a setup because I'velbeen avoiding him. So, anyway, 
he tells, he outlines the whole thing. I said what 
have you· got planned, John. And he says, "Do you 
That's the idea. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 275 
