,. 
87F ' S ION 87. SECURITY I~ESTIGATI( ·• 
(2) Leadership or activist position in affiliated fronts of revolu­
tionary organizations within the last thre~ years as shown by 
.overt acts or statements established through reliable sources, ·( 
informants, or individuals. 
(3) An individual who, although not a member of or participant in 
activities of revolutionary organizations or considered an 
activist in. affiliated fronts, has exhibited a revolutionary 
ideology and is likely to seize upon the opportunity presented 
by pational emergency to commit acts of espionage.or sabotage, 
including acts of terrorism, assassination, or any interference 
with or threat to the survival and effective operation of nationa~, 
state, and local governments and of the defense efforts. 
d. Category IV 
(1) Individuals whose activities do not meet criteria of Categories I, 
II or III but who are in a position to influence others to engage in 
acts inimical to the national defense and are likely to furnish 
financial aid or other assistance to revolutionary or extremist 
elements because of their sympathy, associations, or ideology. 
3. Factors relating to dangerousness 
a. Dangerousness of individual does not depend solely upon personal 
characteristics, such as aggressiveness or disposition to violence. 
It also depends upon contribution subject has made or is making in 
advancing principles and aims of subversive movement, or his subversive 
potential in event of national emergency. All information must be 
carefully weighed. Among factors having bearing are: 
(1) Long membership in subversive organization 
(2) Affiliation with or attendance at ·training schools, especially 
leadership schools 
(3) Possession of or study of revolutionary literature 
(4) Espousal of subversive doctrines as shown by acts and utterances 
(5) Contributions to or collections of funds for organizations 
(6) Recruitment of new members 
(7) Support of communist bloc powers in acts and utterances (\. 
(8) Activity as courier or confidential mail drop for subversive 
movement 
(9) Regular participation in activities of subversive organization, 
especially when this involves sacrifices, inconveniences, or 
disadvantages 
(10) Individuals who have defected, revoked, 6r sought revocation 
of u. s. citizenship in favor of communist country, have returned 
to u. s., and have taken no positive steps to counteract such 
action • 
(11) Statements or activities on subject's part establishing reasonable· 
grounds to believe his loyalty would lie with communist country 
in event of armed conflict between u. S. and that country 
(12) Training and/or participation in espionage, sabotage, or.intel­
ligence activities 
(13) History of emotional instability or irrational behavior, prior 
acts indicating propensity for violence, coupled with subversive 
background or hatred against organized government ' . 
4 .. Evaluating interviews 
a. Positive statement to interviewing Agents clearly indicating adherence 
to doctrines, aims, or purposes of revolutionary organization or-
front organization shall be considered in evaluating an individual's 
dangerousness. 
b .. Other than above, interviews are not factors in making determination as 
to ADEX; e.g., lack of cooperation or partial cooperation are not 
factors. 
32 
4-1"3-72 
(· 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1932 
i 
I • 
