13-00000 
• 
-~ ·TOP SECRET DINAR 
FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH: 
Fidel Castro's two-hour speech on 23 November was what 
he termed an "objective analysis" of the implications of 
President Kennedy's assassination. The speech reflected an 
apprehension that US policy toward him may now become even 
tougher. He said the Pr.esident 's death was "serious and bad 
news" which could lead from "a bad situation to a worse situ­
ation." He pointed out that President Kennedy's alleged 
promise not to invade Cuba had been strongly attacked.by those 
"ultrareactionaries" in the United States who, he said,· are 
now using the assassination to create a climate of "anti-­
Soviet, anti-Cuban hysteria" designed to pressure the new 
President ~oward a Cuban policy "highly prejudicial to- the 
interests of peace and of.mankind." 
Castro began his speech by stating·that he "and the 
immense majority_of human beings" react with "repudiation" to 
the assassination, which is not "a correct method of struggle." 
While the death of the imperialist system would make Cubans 
happy, "the death· of a man, even if that man were our enemy, 
cannot make us happy~ .. we must not confuse the systems with 
th~ men-." He said, "we always cease our· belligerency at death; 
w.e always bow with respect at death, even if it has to do 
with an enemy." 
Castro declared that the assassination can only benefit 
"those ultrarightist and ultrareactionary sectors, among which 
President Kennedy could not be counted." These "most reaction­
ary forces are now breaking loose within the ·United States," 
he declared. President Kennedy was a strong president who 
was a_ble to control these pressures, but the new US president, 
because of the circumstances inherent in bis assumption of 
the presidency, will not have the same strength and authority, 
Castro said. 
Castro then read a series of US news dt·spatches referring 
to the Castro-Communist affiliations of the accused assassin. 
He said this was all part of the "reactionary" effort to 
create .a c:J_imate of "anti-Soviet, anti-Cuban hysteria" in 
the United States. This climate of hysteria, he said, is 
designed to face the new President with an irresistible pres­
sure toward a "more aggressive policy." • 
Castro then devoted considerable time in an attempt to 
throw dou.bt on the guilt of the accused assassin and to in­
sinuate that Oswald, whether guilty or innocent, was actually 
a tool of the extreme rigbtists. "Is he really guilty? Is ·• 
he a scapegoat? Is he a psychopath? Or is he perhaps a tool 
of the most reactionary US circles? Who is this man? 
-1-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
