13-00000 
COPY COPY COPY 
-4-
He indicated that it was·. very foolish for the 
Unit~dS:ates to furnish anns to Cuba or any other Carib­
bean country·. He said "anybody knows· th.at our countries 
are not going to be able to play any part in the defense 
of this hemisphere in the ev~~t a world war breaks out. 
The arms governments· get in this hemisphere are only used 
·to suppress people ·as Batista used his arms to fight the 
revolution. It would be far better if the money that you 
give to Latin American countries for arms be provided for 
capital invesbnent." I will h.ave to admit that as far as 
his basic argument was concerned h.ere I' found little. that I 
could disagree with! 
We had a rather extended discussion of how Cuba could 
get the inves·tment capi_tal it needed for economic progress. 
He i.ns-isted that what Cuba prini¥i.ly· needed and what· he 
wanted was not pri.vate capital but government capital. He 
gave me some rather confused arguments as to why. plants _that 
were licensed and/or owned and operated by th.e government 
would serve the best interests of Cuba better than privately 
owned enterprises·. I told him quite bluntly that his best 
hope as far as· the United States was concerned. was not in 
getting more government capital but in attracting private· 
capital. I explained that government capital was limited be-
·cause of thenany demands upon it and the budget problems we 
presently confronted. I pointed out that private capital on 
the other hand was expansible and that he would be serving 
the interests of Cuba far better by adopting policies which 
would attract it~ I pointed out that there was competition 
for capital throughout the Americas and the world and that 
it would not go to a country where there was any considerable 
fear that policies.might be adopted which would discriminate 
against private enterprise. At this point he, at considerable 
length, tried to explain why he. had said and done some of 
the things whic_h had appeared to be anti--private enterprise up 
to this time. Here again on this point I doubt if I made too 
much of an impression. 
He explained h.is agrarian reform program in consider­
able detail jus·tifying it primarily on the ground that Cuba 
needed more people who were able to buy the goods produ<led 
within the country and that it would-make no sense to pro-
duce more in factories unless the amount of money in the hands 
of consumers was increased. 
COPY COPY COPY 
' 
