[ 
[ 
( 
( 
-5. 
.. 
SECTION 107. eURITY INF0~1ANrS [AND _CONFIDE1-L SOURCES] 
~-\ .. ~ 
h. Any arrangements for paying informant or personally contacting him 
must be specific and no doubt should be left in the minds of either 
the Agent or informant as to the methods of payment, amount, place, 
and time. . 
i. Informants should be instructed to use only public telephone·s in 
communicating with contacting Agent and consideration should be given 
to furnishing informants the unlisted office telephone number for 
emergency communication. [This rule is not practical in all espionage 
and foreign nationality matters but should be followed where applicable.] 
j. Positive information received from informant should be the subject 
of a written statement by informant or a memorandum ,prepared by 
contacting Agent to be placed in the informantts subfile and 
appropriately channelized • 
. k. Record dates of all contacts, whether negative 
ant 1 s administrative file. Memorandum or form 
... informant contacted frcquen·tly, one memorandum 
several contacts. • 
or positive, in inform­
FD-209 may be used. If 
or form may be used for 
1. The dates of negative contacts and.file numbers 9f the cases··in-vol_,;.ed 
must appear in informant I s adminis·trati ve file. Where a file ·has more 
than one subject, the name of the subject under inquiry should also 
be noted. Do not set forth title of the case involved on·the form. 
m. If positi-ve information recei-ved from informant, show only dates of 
contacts in informant 1 s administrative file. Place positive informa­
tion in informant's subfile and appropriately channelize same. 
n. Alternate Agent should be designated fo~ contacts with informant and 
former should be thoroughly acquainted with informant so that contacts 
may be handled by alternate Agent in absence of Agent to whom· inform-
ant is assigned. • 
[Checking reliability] 
a. Reliability of informants must be constantly checked. 
b. Consideration should be given to use of any investigative technique 
deemed necessary to be certain they are completely reliable and aro 
furnishing accurate, truthful information. 
c. Checks on reliabili~,;y must be c·onstantly reviewed during time 
informant is active. 
Fingerprints . . 
a. After informant has been de-veloped and unless some reasoµ to the 
contrary exists, obtain and forw~.rd his fingerprints to Identifica-
tion Division if they are not on file there. • 
b. If informan·l; refuses, do not force the issue. , 
c. Informant's fingerprints, when obtained, should be forwarded as 
enclosure to FD-165 using applicant-type fingerprint card, form 
FD-258. This card should be properly executed showing subject 1 s 
complete description, including date and place of birth. Appro­
priate field office should be shown as contributor, field case file 
number in number space, and 11inquiry" in space for "oompany and 
address" on face of card. 
d. A flash notice is to be place~ by the field in the files of th~ 
Identification Division 1ly submission of, form FD-165, using informant 1 s 
true name for i!ach informant who has fingerprints on file. 
e. When infol'mant is discontinued, retain flash notice for one year 
follo-.-ting discontinuance. Ins1.1.re that notice is canceled at that 
time by submission of form FD-165 or advise Bureau as to why notice 
should be continued. If fingerprints obtained solely for this 
purpose,·remove fingerprints from criminal file. 
7~ [Control - statement of ~ooperati6n) . 
a; Clos·e control must be exercised over acti-vi ties of informants and 
double agents in order ·to obtain maxilnum resul·ts in security cases 
and to prevent ~iny possible emba:t-rassment to Bureau. 
1392 
8 
2-12-60 
\ J 
