-41-
,, 
-;i._:F :.··-station unaware if assassination was pre.­
meditated or whe the-r it cons ti tu ted bungled 
abduction attempt. In any case, it important 
to bear in mind that move against Schneider 
was conceived by and executed at behest of 
senior Armed Forces officers. We know that 
General Valenzuela was involved. We also 
near certain that Admiral Tirado, Army Lt. 
Colonel and Navy Captain witting and involved. 
We have reason for believeing that General 
Viaux and numerous associates fully clued ifl, 
but cannot prove or disprove that execution 
or attempt against Schneider was entrusted to 
elements linked with Viaux. Important factor 
to bear in mind is that A!'rned Forces, and not 
retired officers or extreme rightests, set 
Schneider up for execution or abduction .... 
All we can say is that attempt against Schneider 
is affording Armed Forces one last opportunity 
to prevent Allende's election if they are willing 
to follow Valenzuela's scenario. _ 
_ (Santiago 598, 22 October) 
F. Post October 22 Events 
The shooting of General Schneider resulted immediately ina declara-
tion of martial law, the appointment of General Prats to succeed SC.hneider 
as Commander in Chief, and the appointment of General Valenzuela as chief 
of Santiago province. These measures, and others taken, caused the Chile 
Task Force to make the following initial judgment: 
With only 24 hours remaining before the Congressional 
runoff, a coup climate exists in Chile .... T_he attack 
on General Schneider has produced developments which 
closely follow Valenzuela's plan .... Consequently the 
plotters' positions have been.enhanced. 
(Chile Task Force Log, 22 October) 
On October 23, Director Helms reviewed and discussed Track II: 
.rt was agreed ... that a maximum effort has been achieved, 
and that now only the Chileans themselves can manage a 
--successful coup. The Chileans have been guided to a 
point where a military solution is at least open to 
them. (Task Force Log-,-24-_ October) ( -
Ii ' • 
l\ -.·..: 
.mt .50955 Docid.: 3242352.~ Page 116 
-
I 
l 
-
