r 
-. . , 
Hon. Frank Church 
u.s. Senate 
Washington, n;c. 
Dear Sen. Church: 
., 
c_o_P_Y 
..._ , .. - •• C 
V 
By way of backgrowid, I served honorably with both the Federal BureaH of Inv.e 
igation and the Central Intelligence Agency for a combined total of ove~ 33 
years. I am proud of my service with each agency and I feel th&t my activities 
were quite worthwhile and in the national interest. I am a graduate of George 
\IJashington University Law School and a member of the bar. I am now retired. 
As an interested and intellectually curious· ,c:ittiz#en, I have been reading 
accowits in the public press concerning the activities of the committee which 
you happen to chair and of the House Committee which Rep. Otis Pike happens to 
chair, both dealing with the U.S. investigative and intelligence programs.Brief­
ly stated, I am totally nauseated by the irresponsible way in which both of you 
demand highly sensitive snd classified data which seems to be publicized soon 
after you get it. It is my opinion and that of many ffiends that your committe 
are effectively destroying the credibility of these agencies and making impos­
sible their effective performance in the future. 
Before going further, let me state that I do not condone irregularities, im-
.,__ proprieties or illegalities by either agency in their normal,routine activitie 
but I do see the justification,in serious security or Mafia like criminal acti­
vities ,for certain '?extracurricular" activities to achieve needed ends and I 
think that the Congress should quietly recognize such,with reasonable controls. 
You should be proud and complimentary,for instance in my opinion,about the • 
highly publicized and often misrepresented mail intercept program when you 
stop to realize that it wes confined to mail to and from Russia and,1nsof6r as 
I read, the results were given appropriate safeguards. 
I have no objection to having some type of scrutiny and supervision of these 
agencies by some well qualified and impartial panel and I do not object to 
having appropriate administrative action taken against offending employees and 
officials,if their rights are protected. What I do strongly object to is the 
pathetically inept and horrendously damaging procedures whereby your inquiries 
on sensitive matters are regularly reported,sometimes incompletely and for 
,_ apparent political reasons. It just seems to me that someone connected with your 
committees is afflicted with political "diarrhea of the mouth" which impels 
them to babble without regard to common sense or the welfare of our intelligence 
programs and, as I read the press, you two gentlemen both have this weakness. 
I am sure that the intelligence organizations of all major nations make some 
mist~kes.But have you ever seen the British,the French,the Russians,the 
Gennans,the Israeli or the Japanese governments conduct such a "three ring 
circus" on sensitive matters as you men are doing to your everlasting discredit7 
I am sure also that we are the laughing stock of all the above enumerated 
nations. What foreign official will entrust sensitive and confidential data to 
U.S. intelligence agents in the foreseeable future when he ~nows that he may soo 
see his data publicized because of some misguided Congressional activity? I very 
sincerely feel that strong administrative and/or criminal action should be taken 
► in any cases where either or both pf your committees and/or their erson 
been the vehicle for embarrassing or damaging the u.s. by actions ted 
in c9nfidential data being reported. 
In order that there be no miswiderstanding,this letter re~gi 
more than my very sincere conviction of great personal contempt and ai~gd§C hith 
the way in which you and your committees have done a great disservice to the 
United States by sadly mishandling your responsibilities to these agencies and 
to our nation. 
cc: Rep. Otis G. Pike 
House Intelligence 
Washington, D.C. 
~( A~ lt 
µ.;/-.t..o ,J J.2., ,..,,_ 
::.,F P//f-,6 ';:J _ 
Committee 
NW 38316 Docld:32989603 Page 127 
Sincerely, 
FRED H. HALL 
6903 Cypress Road,C-21 
Plantation,Fla. 333 
