( 
( 
• 
P.A.RT II 
• 
6D - E-' 
SECTION 6, PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, J.ND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
h. To include as many pertinent photographs as possible to make the 
write-up interesting. The photographs should no.t necessarily be of· 
subjects alone but should be of paraphernalia used by the criminal, 
photographs of unusual loot obtained, scenes of various locales, etc. 
If photographs submitted do not belong to the FBI, it is necessary 
to inform the Bureau of their source and whether the o-wner of the 
photographs has any objection to their being reproduced in publi­
cations. 
i. ·Each portion of the write-up should be documented as to the ideni;i ty 
of the report or other communication from which facts were taken. The 
documentation should be set off by parentheses and follow immediately 
the portion of the write-up to which it pertains. 
Do not: 
a. Identify law enforcement officers by name but by title and'NA affilia-
tion 
b. Show aliases of subjects of Dependents Assistance Act of 195b 
c, Show aliases of victims of WSTA cases 
.d. Use complicated sentence structure 
e. Use technical references to statutes 
f, Express personal opinions 
g. Reveal identity of confidential informants 
h. Use Bureau expressions like "the subject" and "the Bureau" 
i. Prepare interesting case write-ups on juveniles, sex offenders, and 
parole violators but submit these by letter 
j, Use adjective~ excessively 
5. Transmittal 
Set forth all data necessary for Bureau's consideration at the beginning 
of write-up and then follow with interesting case data. Transmit by 
routing slip, attention Crime Records Division. 
6. Dissemination 
New ones issued by "the Bureau should be ·carefully reviewed for possible 
interest to feature writers in field office territory and consideration 
given to supplying them to appropriate writers. If there is an appreci­
able passage of time after issuance, obtain Bureau approval before re­
lease. Pertinent photographs, if available, will be furnished by the 
Bureau on request,· 
E. CIRCULAR LETTERS, TRADE .AND BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS 
1. Circular letters must be approved in advance by the Bureau and sent in 
by the office initiating the r~quest. 
2, SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-
type institutions within their own divisions to expedite circularization 
of known· serial numbers of money included in the loot.taken in a bank 
[ robbery, bank burglary, or bank larce~y. [On a highly selective basis, 
[ on approval of the SAC, leads may be set out to contiguous offices to 
[ circularize b;1nking-type ins·bitutions in those divisions, and the Bureau 
[ should be notified that this action is being taken unless advised to 
[ the contrary. Communications setting out such leads must include suf-
[ ficient facts to enable the Bureau to properly evaluate and justify the 
[ additional circularization. In all other cases prior Bureau approval 
[ must be obtained in accordance with existing rules governing circula~ 
[ letters.] In all instances[the circular]letter must include the following: 
a. A brief concise statement concerning the bank robbery, bank burglary, 
or bank larceny and the fact that included in the loot or money 
taken was money, the serial numbers of which are known 
b. List of known serial numbers according to denomination, series year 
if known, alphabetical order, and numerical sequence 
c, A statement that the matter is to be treated confidentially 
d. A cautionary statement that no bank employee should take any action 
which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety 
e-. The address and the tele.phone number of the field office with a 
statement that any person should contact the field office by calling 
collect 
3 
9-27-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 327 
