13-00000 
SUBJECT: ( s) 
SECRET 
Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center 
as CIA Facility 
maintains security through a low profile. 7 In the 
past in the United States, identification of CIA 
facilities have led to a number of surreptitious 
entries, bombings, and physical disruptions. 
Simply stated, CIA is a target for both hostile 
individuals_ and organizations;
8 
• On the individual level and in the past three 
years, WTC has experienced an increase in security 
incidents including a physical breach of Station o· 
compound security, two suspect package incidents, 
and additional unsolicited contacts and "gate 
turn-around" incidents; 9 
7 
(S) As detailed on the attached annotated photographs, the array of 
communications equipment and its proximity to public spaces and roads is 
clear. For example, Station Chas two gates: the first is only 50 feet from 
a public road and the second is approximately 600 feet. There are no 
electronic intrusion alarms on the fence line and, most often, only one 
security officer is present at a gate. All facility signs simply state: 
"Warrenton Training Center/ NCS / u.s: Army-/ Admission By Permit Only" 
8 (S) The current Kasi prosecution provides a,mple evidence of the risks 
posed by the public identification_of CIA domestic facilities. Any individual 
intent upon seeking retribution for perceived wrongs quite naturally seeks a 
target providing the largest possible public notice·and while CIA.headquarters 
is an excellent target, a covert facility is even a better target, and a 
covert facility supporting the foreign espionage activities of the CIA is the 
best possible target for a political and public statement. 
9 (S) The breach of compound security was by an out-of-state vehicle which 
followed an employee through a remote gate and the dri v'er had no credible ... 
explanation for their actions; the incident is considered suspicious and 
unexplained. The suspect package incidents include a box which was placed 
(not dropped) next to our facility which we believe was intended to test and 
thus observe our response to suspicious.packages. Gate· turn-arounds µumber 8-
10 per month and include only those vehicles which ignore clear signs that 
they are entering a classified government facility but proceed in any event to 
our gate; it is instructive to note'that.very few of·these individuals state 
7 
SECRET 
