SECRET 
Betsy Palmer 
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - xinII 
April 6, 1978 
VOUJME V - April 1961 - July 1961 
1. Cable from JMWA VE to Eell 
Date: April 3, 1961 
;-,1<0 
Ray meets 'With Olien and said he was not as yet prepared to join effe. Said 
Miro had welshed on commitments and while willing to accept Ray into CRC, 
not willing to give him any voice in the Council. Olein apptempts to i 
convince R~ he was doing great disservice to CUban people by refusing to 
serve within BRO. 
2. Cable to JMWA VE from Bell 
Date: AI>ril 4, 1961 
"To test actual MRP capabilities inside request you inform Ray to hit 
targets G, I and K during period 5-10 AI>ril. Attack target O including 
diesel locomotive engines immediately. Will forward additional targets if 
Ray shows any capability." 
X 3. Letter to Edi tor (Pencilled. note: Propaganda against MRP by A:ttime' s 
replacement Jose Manuel Hernandez PUentes received from QD Date 6 Apr 61.) 
"I am a CUban who still thinks that CUba can be rehabilitated after the fall 
of Castro. For this reason many CUbans have been baffled by the list of 
names now given as the saviors of CUba for a Provisional Gova: rnment. Among 
these a.re such notorious Castro followers as: Ray, Barquin, Pazos, Rufo 
LJ)pez Fresquet, Chibas and others whose names remind us of an era of 
mourning, persecution and misery." 
~ 4. Report on Manuel Ray received. from Enrique Molinet, a road and. airfield 
construction,engineer under Batista regime. Cover note dated 4/7/61. 
Molinet- outlines his distaste for Ra,y, citing at the beginning his refusal 
to leave castro even after the questionable suicide of h:i.s brother, Rene. 
After Ray was ousted from his Cabinet job, he continued to visit Castro, 
occupying a prominent position in all Castro's public appearances. Said 
that even before Castro, Ray was an active member of the CUba.n Orthodox 
Party, highly infiltrated with conmnmists • Claims that when Ray in his 
Cabinet position, indoctrinations programs were held expousing communistic 
ideals. Also while Minister of PUblic \brks, cla.1.ms he (Ray) threw out 
hundreds of employees without due cause and destroyed ever-J successful 
contractor that existed. 
Memorandum for the Record 
SU.bject: custody of Revolutionary Council, 19-20 J\pril 1961 
Signed:( Robert F. Moroney ') 
Date:.24 April 1961 
Relates that on 19 April 1961, President Kennedy met with the six members 01' 
?RD' s Revolutionar-J Council where President expressed i:is deep sorrow and. 
concern over the failure ot the m:ilitary effort (:say of Pigs). Ray one of the 
group. 
SECRET 
