6J - K 
SECTION 6. 
- PART II 
PUBL.J.Cl..T!OHS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONT,TS 
referred to Bureau by local law e-nforcement agencies or where Bureau ·.r...-_ 
fugitive~ are taken into custody by local law enforcement officers. \.. 
They should also be advised of violations -of local laws coming to the 
attention of the FBI. 
[. 
b. Visits to Washington 
When the field requests special courtesies be afforded c~rtain indi­
viduals, including law enforcement officers, coming to Washington, D0 C., 
the communication so advising the Bureau shall contain biographical 
data and a brlef summary of information in the field office files 
concerning the visitoro 
When law enforcement executives are contemplating a visit to the Bureau 
• at Wa·~hington, Do. Q .. , ?,Sk them to _call at the 9ffice of the [As:5-tsi;ant: 
Director of External Affairs Division,. Room 5634,]Justice Buildingo 
Co Letters of co~endation, congratulations, appreciation, and 9ond9lence 
When letters of coill.l]lendation, congratulations, appreciation, _or con­
dolence from the Director are recommended by the field, such recom­
mendations should be submitted promptly. They should include the 
specific facts on which the recommendation is based; full identifying 
data and address of the citizen, and the result of a search-of the 
field office indices concerning the citizen. [Form FD-468 may be used.] 
In connection with the election of officers. of police associcJ.tions 
at conventions covering more than one field division territory, the 
field division in whose territory the convention was physicai1y held 
is responsible for submitting any recommendations for letters of con­
gratulationso The office submitting such request should summarize 
briefly the relations with these officers, incorporating. any deroga­
tory data which might preclude such letterso Inasmuch as the recom~ 
mending office is not' likely to pos·sess all data, pertinent other 
field divisions should submit a brief, .supplemental summary concerning 
officers recommended for letters who reside in their territoryo • 
4. Inquiries concerning status of Bureau cases 
When a state official has expressed interest in the prosecutive· status· 
of a Bureau case, for a legitimate reason, such as deferment of state 
prosecution pending the outcome of the Federal case, in,ure that such 
official is kept appropriately advised, including the final outcome 
of the ma:tter. 
5. V. s. Cabinet officers, Senators, and Congressmen . 
If an SAC receives an inquiry from a Cabinet officer or U. S. Senator or 
Congressman concerning an official matter, it should be brought to the 
Bur-eau 1 s attention immedia:tely. 
Ko SOURCES OF INFORMATION 
Definition 
An individual, or~aniza,tion, or concern willingly furnishing information to em­
ployees frequently enough ~o justify making a record where the-source need not 
be protected. If occasionally the source must be prot-ected, this may be done 0 
If sources must be constantly concealed, they become informants or confidential 
·sources and must be handled as such. • 
1. Index 
Index card (3 by 5 inches) must be made up to contain: 
ao Names 
b. .A.ddres s es 
c. Organization or concern 
d. Type of information furnished 
e. Date of development 
6 
2-27-74 
( 
