Miscellaneous documents not in files 
Page 2 
5. Field Information Report on CUba 
SECRET Betsy Palmer 
Subject: Lecture of Manuel Ray Rivero to Member of JURE's 
Delegation from Tampa, Orlando, and Miami, Florida 
Date: 26 May 1965 
Source: A young CUban exile trained in information collection. 
Ray ga.Ke opening lecture to 25-30 JURE delegates gathered in Miami on 
22 May 1965. Ray claims JURE has men and equipment to win war of liberation 
in CUba and reiterates that oDl.y an internal revolution will overthrow 
Castro. Said some arms had been left on a military base in the Dominican 
Republic and that, regardless of who takes over in the DR, the arms will 
be returned. to JURE. Made an appeal for money so that organization would. 
purchase the M/V VENUS, a ll0-foot vessel registered in Panama. (Previous 
reporting on JURE's base and equipment in DR contained. in the following: 
TDCSDB-315/00539-65, 16 Feb 65; TDCSDB-315/00301~65, 38 Jan 65; 
TDCSDB-315/00383~65, 27 Jan 65; and TDCSDB-315/00269-65, 28 Jan 65. 
* 6. Field Information Report on CUba 
SUbject: Plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the 
Central Intelligence Agency 
Date: 30 April 1963 
Source: Former Rebel Army member (F) active in clandestine movements 
Appraisal of Content: 3 
On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros, JURE Exec. Ed. member, said a meeting 
held in his home and Antonio Arias, propaganda chief in Miami, in attendance. 
Cosneros said it was mentioned. that Ray ha.cl issued orders to infiltrate 
a trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of e:n.y plans with 
regard to CUba and if possible to infiltrate this man into CUba. Cisneros 
said it might be possible to use contacts of George Volsky (sp?) who ha.cl 
CIA contacts. In regard to future propaganda, JURE plans to introduce 
thousands of anti-American phamphlets into CU.ba, including Ray's manifesto 
against the U.S. government and the CIA. 
Report on Cuba/Dominican Republic 
SUbject: Urgent plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Enter Cuba 
Involvement of Ray vi.th Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and Haiti 
Date: 18 September 1964 
Source: Jose Garcia Valdez - part of group of Cubam emigres trained 
in techniques of information collection.· 
Andrew st. George said Ray is attempting to drop himself into CUba, regardless 
of risk, to regain his political prestige. Ray feels he cannot now compete 
vi.th Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, military leader of SNFE, and other revolutionary 
organization~, unless he enters Cuba. He wants to have same influence of 
others when Haiti leadership starts distributing bases to Cuban exiles.and 
providing them help for their aid in overthoving Francois Duvalier (a trade off). 
According to St. George, the Haiti combine is composed of Gutierrez, 
.Antonio Cuesta del Valle~ commandos L, and DRE members. Also, Rolando 
Ma.sferrer Rojas on the inside of Haiti operations and has the most influence 
among the Haitians. 
