13-00000 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
FIDEL CASTRO'S SPEECH: 
Fidel Castro's speech of the night of 6-7 December was 
on the occasion of the graduation of women teachers for the 
literacy campaign. He devoted most of the 99 minutes to a 
discussion of the development of local education in Cuba. At 
one point, however, he made a moderately long digression to 
discuss Venezuela and the situation raised by Venezuela's dis­
covery last month of a large cache of weapons, some of which 
have been traced to Cuba. 
casti,o stated that, while "the imperialists and their 
lackeys" charge that Cuba is promoting subversion in Vene-
zuela, rebellion and subversion cannot be promoted from with­
out. The Venezuelan revolution, he maintained; stems from 
the Venezuelan people's own disgust with their government and 
with its permitting the "imperialists" t9 plunder Venezuela's 
wealth and resources. If subversion could, in fact, be promoted 
from the outside, why, he asked, have all the resources of im-
perialism failed to ·subvert the Cuban Government? -
Betancourt, "that mis·erable lackey," is. trying to incite 
the.United States to take military action against Cuba, Castro 
charged. As a pretext .the Venezuelans say they have discovered 
arms from Cuba on the Venezuelan coast, castro stated.' "Some 
of the arms," he said, "are said to have borne an effaced Cuban 
seal, and other arms are said to be bazookas, recoilless cannon, 
mortars. But Cuban mortars perchance? No! Yankee mortars! 
Yankee bazookas! Yankee recoilless cannon! Arms which we did 
not.manufacture; arms which we did not buy!" castro then went 
on, without specifically denying that the weapons had come from 
Cuba, by implying that the CIA had obtained Cuban arms from 
Cuban deserters and that it would not be difficult to plant 
these weapons in Venezuela. (Here he is obv:l:oQ.sly.referring 
to the Belgian-made light ri:fles and submachineguns which have 
been identified as among those shipped to Cuba in 1959 and 
1960.) With respect to the US-made mortars, bazookas, and re­
coilless rifles, castro challenged the OAS investigating com­
mittee to "investigate thoroughly," make laboratory tests, 
trace the serial numbers, and then "they will be able to reach 
only one conclusion: that they belong to the CIA."· 
Castro then attempted to show the "brazenness" and in­
consistency of those ·who would use the Venezuelan arms cache 
as a pretext to invade or to blockade Cuba when for more than 
four years the very same kind of sbbversive activity as is 
now being charged to Cuba has been perpetrated against.Cuba-­
without any hemispheric attempt to punish the aggressors. 
-2-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
