SECRET 
( l'"•n Fi Ilrd lnJ 
SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS 
Indicate 1i9niflcgnf strength• or weoli!ne11,es demonarroted in current po1ltion kseptng in prop•r perapective their relationship to 
over oil performot1ce. Statfl •ui;gelllon I made for improve111ent of work P•rformonce. Give rec-omrn endation • far training.. Comment 
on foreign l"nguasi• competence, ii required for current pa·•illon.' Amplify or ••plain rating• given In Section 8 to provide best 
ba,t1 for determining future personnel octfon. Manner of e,rformonce of mono~•rial or suoerwi ■ orv duff•• ond cost consclou•n••• 
In th• .... of .. ., • .,.,,.., u,a~- enulnmant and fund1 mull be com-ted on i onn•lcobtr. ,, e•tro llf>OCB is needed to complete 
Sec Ii or. C, ottoch o Hporote s!.eel of paper. j ,, , , ' 
5 
i > 7 1 
UNil Ill 1111 I 
Mr. Kent came to this branch from a non-official cover job which 
had 1i ttle in common with the duties of a country desk chief. More­
over• he found himself in the sometimes1 difficult situation of taking 
over a position just vacated by the newly appointed deputy branch chief. 
Despite these, to him, minor obstacles, he called upon his close 
association with Latin American affairs for many years, his wealth of 
experience on WH country desks, and his inherent ability to deal suc­
cessfully with people and situations in asserting leadership and quickly 
bringing the Peru Desk under his own independent control. 
During the year that Mr, Kent served as Peru Desk Chief he domon­
strated conclusively that he is equally talented in all fields of 
clandestine activity, There is little question that Covert Action is 
what he likes and does the best, as once more evidenced by a written 
commendation he received for this type of ·work while part of a special 
WH task force in September and October 1970; however, it should be 
equally noted th~t the Fl and CI aspects of his job on the Peru Desk 
also received full interest and attention during his tenure, He is a 
good personnel manager and maintained high morale in his unit while 
working it hard and demanding high standards, He is not at all afraid 
of responsibility, he meets all deadlines without prompting, 
(continued) -------------------------------------•c----------lSECTIOM D CERTIFICATION AND COMMEHTS 
I. aY l..,.LOYH 
I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN 5ECTIOHS A, 8, AHO C OF THU RE"°RT 
DATIi£ 
1) Qp,~V l'i'l1 
2. IY SUPUYISOllt 
MONTNI llM,-LOYIEII HU ■ IEEI\I 
UNOltlt MY SUPIIIVISIQI\I ,r THIS 111;,-0IIT HAS I\ICT ■ 11£1\1 5"0WN TO IM .. f.O'fEI. GIVE IJl"LANATION 
10 1/2 months 
04TE 
R A,iTi 1 1 Q71 
3. BY REVff111NG Of,tCIAL 
COMMENTS 01' lll!VIEWII\IQ O~~IC14L. 
I have little to add to this comprehensive narrative with which I 
fully agree. I, too, have worked very closely with Bill for most of 
the period under review, which witnessed rather hectic days in the life 
of the Lima Station: it was cocforting to be able to rely on his keen 
perception of latent trouble, clear analysis of events, and sound and/or 
imaginative, as the case demanded, proposals for approaching problems. 
Because he has the potential for career advancement, I would strongly 
reco1mnend that he be soon transferred back to a 1'1 i•e" position, again 
with managerial responsibilities. 
04TE 
8 April 1971 
OFFiCIAL TITLE OP' REVIEWING Of"f"ICIAL 
Chief I iHl/3 
!TYPED OR~ N4ME .lNO SIGN.lTUi.E 
--t-◄ • 
s Spera -
SECRET 
