( 
fiaily movements while in rv1exlco City nor could they confirn1 the date 
of his departure or his mode of travel. The original assumption that 
he had returned by bus could not be proven .. Several possibilities were 
discussed whereby the Com1nission could fill in the gaps of its investi­
gation of the Mexican phase. The suggestion was made that the n1ost 
effective way of resolving the questions they had would be to have a 
member of the Commission visit :i\1exico City and discuss the issues on 
the spot with those American and JIJ:exican officials directly concerned. 
Mr. Helms noted that it would be possible for a mcn1ber of the Com­
mission to visit our Chief of Station who would then be able to work out 
with the Warren Commission staff 1nember the best way to handle inter­
views with Ivlexican police officials, particul3.rly if it is desired that 
these interviews be informal in niture. Our Chief of Station would also 
be able to put the Warren Commission staff member in contact with the 
FBI officials and Immigration ::i.nd Naturalization Service officers stationed 
in .lvlexico Cit 1Vfr. Helms cautioned that 
itw 
on arrival to meet briefly with the 
Ambassador or Minister Counselor before proceeding to work out details 
with the CIA Chief of Station. 
8. In connection with the 11exicari phase of the investigation, mem­
bers of Mr. Rankin's staif questioned :i\'ir. Helms and Mr. Rocca reg:::i...rding 
the extent of the CIA file on Oswald for the period 8 October to 22 November 
1963. They questioned the sanitized extracts which they had been shown 
and wondered if there were not more. 1'1r. Rocca summarized the ma- ' 
terials that had come to the attention of the Secret Service, or had been 
disseminated to the Secret Service, immediately after the assassination. 
Mr. Rocca said there was not additional substantive information and that 
the sanitized version seen by the Commission constituted the sum of our 
holdings. Mr. Helms then explained that as a 1natter of practice we did 
not release actual copies of our messages because they contained code­
words and digraphs which would be unintelligible to a person not familiar 
with them. He added, however, that ~.~ would be happy to show the file 
with the original messages to any staff rneniber of the ;,,Varren Commission 
who might come to visit him at Langley. 
9. The question of why no action ,-vas taken by other agencies of 
the government after their receipt of CIA information that Oswald was 
in contact with the Soviet and Cuban Embassies in lvlexico City was next 
discussed. lVIr. Rankin and members of hi?. staff clearly felt that this 
was a crucial question which needed careful review. They appeared to 
NW 50955 Docld:32202033 Page 2 
