13-00000 
- 2 -
1~ 
Liteakley explained that the mission of the ship is to obtain informa­
tion on hydrographic "stations" located 12 miles out and that the 
restriction suggested would not enable the vessel to accomplish this. 
Mr. Johnson then concurred. 
Colonel Steakley briefed the Group on certain sensitive 
reconnaissance operations. 
Colonel Steakley gave a brief sutmnary of the deployment of 
MIG fighters in the China coastal areas. He said that as of now there 
are no MIG-2l's in 'the area, the MIG complement consisting of 17's 
and 19's. He saw no need to revise any of the projected BOW TIE 
missions because of these fighters;] 
2. ,{!egotiations for Indian Base tJ ( 
The Group noted the report from New Delhi that the Indian 
Intelligence Service finds itself unable to give assurances to the 
Prime Minister about the security of personnel on the projected 
temporary base at Char Batia, and that approval for use of this base 
has, therefore, been withheld. 
Mr. Gilpatric and General Carter pointed out that the DIA is 
anxious to have the Sino-Indian border area covered, because this has 
not been done since January. General Carter said that he had intended 
to have the USIB reas_sess the priority of this requirement at its 
meeting yesterday, but that other matters had made it impossible to 
bring it up. • 
The Group felt that thisshould be discussed with USIB next week. 
They agreed, however, that in the absence of a really persuasive case 
for the priority of the requirement, it would be inadvisable to attempt 
to run the operation once more out of Takhli without Indian assistance. 
They felt that other things being equal, it would be preferable to 
revert to the original proposal of having a permanent Indian base 
available i_n December;.;} __ 
3. Cuba 
a. The Group then turned to consideration of the paper from 
the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs dated 12 August 1963, ''Support of 
Autonomous Anti-Castro Groups." In answer to questions, Mr. Cheever 
said that the project for support of Commandos L would be useful but 
not essential. He felt that the economic damage which this group might 
inflict would probably be comparatively minor. On the other hand there 
would be some psychological advantages to be gained, and also such 
operations would serve to keep the Cuban security forces busy. 
-':',\('• 
•.• i; \ f 
