( 
( 
f. 
_g .• 
( 
( 10.) 
•. ~CTION 87. 
••• 
SJ,J CURITY IlfVE S '.rIGA '.'I. 8.7E 
Commun:i.:;t :i.nfiltration of mass or&anizatio:nr, progr 0 m 
(a} Su'brnit semirmnual letters March 1 an1l September 1 under 
caption of above program, Buf'iJ.e 100-3-] 06, using following 
topical outline and headings: 
I .. Information concerninr," Communist Party_ program 
},urnish summary of information recei-.,rea concerning 
.over-all Communist Party program ·to infiltrate mass . 
organizations, nationally and locally; steps takon to· 
carry out program_: identity :,;pecific t:r-oups ·v,hich are 
targets for infiltration or wh:ich have been infiJ.tratec1 
by party members; and success being achieved by party .. 
II. Organizations concerning which information p:::-eviou·sly 
submitted . . 
Only list names and Bureau file numbers concerning]those 
cases wherein, since submission of last semi~mnual letter, 
letters using the five-point outline set ou~ under 
item (4) above vrere furnished to Bureau. Do no·t list 
those cases which were under investigation by Bureau 
authority at time of submission -of last semi.annual 
letter. 
III. Organiza·l;ions concerning which information being 
submitted for first time with instant letter 
Only lint n2.me s and Bureau file numbers ( if known) 
of those organizations concerning which information 
has not· previously been furnished Bureau but which 
is being furnished, together with recorr~·nendations 
regarding future investigations, for f::-·s·t time with 
instant letter. Submit information, using five-point 
outline as set out under item (4) above; as enclosure 
to l~tter. Submit separate enclosure on ·each orga.ni­
za.tion listed in this category. Furriish tv;o copies 
of each enclosure and sufficient copies of cover letter 
in order that one copy each of semiannual letter and 
enclosure can be placed in Bureau file on organization. 
This will eliminate necessity of submitting separate 
summary letter under each individual case caption. 1)0 
not use T symbols in enclosure, but set out -identities 
of sources. 
Members of law enforcement agencies are not to accompany Bure~u 
Agents during course of security-type investigations without 
prior Bureau authority. 
Photographic surveillances 
(.1) :No photographic surveillances are to be· oo:nducte§. in 
communist.front organization cases unless it is esnential 
to protect Bureau's interests in internal security field 
by supplementing live informant cov-erage of a particular 
meeting with such a s_urveillance. . 
(2) Request Bureau authority to institute such a surveillance 
and qutline manner in which it will be conducted and su.per­
vision which will be·afforded it. 
(3} No such surveillances should be insti-'~uted without .specific 
Bureau authority. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 616 
85 
3-15-65 
