14-00000 
- s -
In addition ther• ar• laral' JURE organiicalion• in CAracaa, Veneo&uf.'IA 
and Dallas, Trxaa. Thc.-re arc- according to AMllANG-1 a total 
of thirty delegations in Lalin Amnka, the.- ~- S. A. and Eur?pe. 
Ha cited as an example the df.'lrgation in Sa.n Francisco which had 
recently purchasc-d a tyr rw riter through the collection of green 
etampa. He added that Rogelio Cieneros had travelled to San 
Francisco some time ~go to commwticate with that group :ind to 
tighten it& organizational activitiea. 
i. AUHANG-1 Aske About ARTIME and the Activities 
in Central America 
AMBANG-1 raised the qul'&tion of Manuel ARTIME's 
activities in Central America. and particularly in Nicaragua. He 
st~ted that any a·saociation with Somoza woulrl not help in creating 
the mistiguc and political coloration necessar)· to inspire revolution 
and resistance from the non-Communists elements in Cuba. Whereas, 
J had expt>ctcd AMBANG-1 to go into a long harangue as to the 
positive damage that ARTIME's actions with Sor:ioza could cause, 
he left the matter at about this point. I agreed that the Somo~as did not 
have a liberal political reputation throughout !.£tin America, but 
added that whatevt!r Cubans cru Id do from that or any vantage point 
against Communism in Cuba would in my estimation be helpful, - • 
while I am sure AMIJANG-1 did not agree with me, he did not say 
so. ln respect to ARTIME and Miro Cardona, whose name t'ntered 
into the conversation later, AMBANG-1 took a fairly objective view. 
He stated that Miro had arrivc'd in San Juan and that ht' wished him 
the best as he figured he had suffered enough. Insofar as ARTIME 
was concerned I gathered that AMBANG-1. might feel that the associ­
ation with Somoza would not do ARTlME any good in a post-Castro 
Cuba. As AMBANG-1 is couvinced that a government after Castro 
must be of a progressive liberal stripe, ARTIME was not doing 
himself any good by identifying himself with the Somozas, 
J. A List of Cuban Diplomats 
As AMBANG-1 had awked for a list of Cuban Diplo­
mats abroad while we were in Paris, I ad,•ised him that auch a list 
had been prt'pared and we would make it a,•ailable to him. In this 
connection he asked if we could include the addrc.-saea of each of the 
Cuban installations. Speaking of diplomats, AM BANG~J wanted to 
