13-00000 
.. 
.. 
.. 
CIA's Sequestered Collection, this voluminous body of records (approximately 
280,000 pages) ranges widely in relevance to the assassination. 
The Records of Some Federal Agencies and Congressional Committees . 
Additional time will allow the Board to finish its work with several agencies, 
including the Secret Service, the National Security Agency, and Congressional 
Committees, including the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
Search for Additional Records. With one more year of operations, the Board's 
search for additional records held by Federal agencies, private individuals, and 
local governments would be concluded with greater confidence. Some of these 
records have been identified, but not yet acquired by the Board. 
Federal Agency Compliance. In November 1996, the Review Board initiated a 
compliance program to. ensure that Federal agencies have fully cooperated with 
• . 
the Board in_~ging its responsibility :Of c1$Surjng Cort~ess arid the ! : · ,:, ·-'-''"'' •. '-,:.:..a ,:_, -
American public that the goalsotthe;~Aclrhaveb.eeifacco~plishedtotlie =:·-;·:0:r: ~ccor-:p/'.':-. 
greatest possible extent The requests to document compliance with the JFK Act - • 
were sent to 27 U.S. government agencies and departments to confirm that the 
U.S. government ru,\S identified, located, and released all records relating to the 
assassination of President Kennedy. The agencies' statements of compliance will 
be included in the Review Board's final report to the Congress. The one-year 
extension will ensure that the compliance program is completed and fully 
documented in the final report. 
It is important for the Review Board to complete these major projects. The Board 
believes that the completion of the task outlined above, the inclusion of these important 
records in the JFK Collection, and the documentation of Federal agency compliance as 
part of the final report will mark an appropriate point at which to conclude the Board's 
work. We are confident that all that remains for the Board can be accomplished in an 
additional year. 
VIII. An Approach to the Review of the Remaining CIA and FBI Records , 
It is clear to the members of the Review Board that there is much work to be done. The -· 
review of the remaining·CIA and FBI records is a cumbersome and complicated task. 
However, the Board and staff have the benefit of our experience to date that sets the 
stage for an efficient and effective review of the remaining records. lwould like to 
briefly describe our early experiences reviewing records and how the past two years set 
a firm foundation for th~ future and would work to our advantage in our last year. 
8 
