1 
Photocopy 
from 
Gerald R. Foril Library 
detection and did not carry the seriou~ impfications of the !G's report. It had 
in any event been terminated some years ago. The A/DDS&T was satisfied with this 
response. When new and more disturbing infonnation about the nature of the Fort 
Detrick activity emerged, however, the words of the IG Survey tended to give it 
credibility. Thus, late in April 1975 a search was begun for any records or other 
information available on the project. Difficulties were immediately encountered 
because the project cryptonym could not be identified. The search for records 
of fund transfers to Fort Detrick did ultimately produce information in that 
regard, however, and checks by the Office of Security on one of the individuals 
identified as having been involved in Fort Detrick activities did provide the 
MKNAOMI cryptohym. This enabled OTS to reca 11 the proper files from Records 
Center; two MKNAOMI files were retrieved. Some additional info1111ation was al so 
produced from the Office of Logistics files. This collection of material largely 
conf1nned the nature of the project as reported by the informants and identified 
a number of people involved in the activity. Additional cause for concern 
resulted from the association of several of these people with specific assassinatic 
plans as revealed in the !G's report on that activity. 
A major cor.cern after the discovery of the records involved the disposition 
of a stockpile of BW agents and toxins maintained by Fort Detrick for possible 
Agency use. It was not known whether or not these materials had been destroyed 
along with the Army's BW stockpiles in response to Presidential Directives of 
November 1969 and February 1970. An unsigned memo raising the question of the 
' disposition of Agency materials maintained by Fort Detrick posed the option 
of having it stored in a commercial laboratory. It was the impression of those 
in OTS who were familiar with the-project that the material had in fact been 
destroyed but no records confirming it could be found. In an attempt to find 
such confi1111ation, laboratory storage facilities in OTS were searched and in the 
Hlf 50955 Docld:32112749 Page 5 
