j 
-23-
The point is that of frequent resort to synechdoche -­
the mention of a part when the whole is to be under­
stood, or vice versa. Thus, we encounter repeated 
references to phrases such as "disposing of Castro", 
which may be read in the narrow, literal sense of assas­
sinating him, when it is intended th.at it be read in 
the broader, figurative sense of dislodging the Castro 
regime. Reversing the coin, we find people speaking· 
vaguely of "doing something about Castro" when it is 
clear that what they have specifically in mind is 
killing him. In a situation wherein those speaking 
may not have actually meant what they seemed to say or 
may not have said what they actually meant, they should 
• not be surprised if their oral shorthand is interpreted 
differently than was intended. 
Differing perceptions between superiors and their sub-
ordinates were graphically illustrated in the Castro context.* 
McCone, in a memorandum dated April 14, 1967, reflected as 
follows: 
Through the years the Cuban problem was discussed in 
terms such as "dispose of Castro", "remove ·castro", 
"knock off· Castro", etc. , and this me.ant the overthrow 
of the Communist government in Cuba and the replacing 
of it with a democratic regime. Terms such as the 
above appear in many working papers, memoranda for the 
record, etc. , and, as stated; all. ref er to a change in 
the Cuban government. 
1, "Senator Mathias: Let me draw an_ example from history. 
When Thomas A'Beckett was proving to be an annoyance, as 
Castro,· the King said, 'who will rid me of this turbulent 
priest?'. He didn't say, 'go out and murder him' .. He said, 
'who•will rid me of this man', and let it go at that . 
. I 
"Mr. Helms: That is a warming reference to the problem. 
"Sena~-or Mathias: You feel that spans the generati_ons 
and the centuries? 
"Mr. Helms: I thi_nk it· does, sir. 
"Senator Mathias: And. that is typical oft.he kind of 
thing which might be said,, which might be taken ·by the 
Hlf 5095.'i DocI<l.:32423525 Page 173 
