SECTIO:H 107 •• CURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDE .L SOURCES. .. -
107t1-'N 
[ 2. Submit· quarterly letter :(FD-45lb) to Bureau by secure -teletyp~ system 
[ (1ITTEL). 0.uarterly letter should includo the following: c· [ a:. name, location and number of subYersiYe groups including identities 
[ •• of groups on college campu,ses, exclusive of those in black extremist, 
[ white hate or espionage matters. 
[ b. Symbol numbers of membeF informants providing coverage who are members 
.( of organizations. If no member. informant, attach adde.ndum and ex-plain 
,[ why you do not have member informants. Indicate specific action being 
( taken to develop member informants and date such coverage is antici-
[ pated for each group. 
[ c. Identities of indi'V'iduals or groups who have participated in or are 
[ active in planning subversive acts of violence, exclusive of those 
[ in black extremist, white hate or espionage matters. 
( d. Symbol numbers of informants and sources· providing coverage of 
[ in~iividuals or groups shown in Column C. If no member informant, 
[ attach addendum and explain why you do not have member informants. 
[ Indicate specific action being taken to develop member informants 
( and date such coverage is anticipated for each group.] 
N. SIGNil!G OF LOY.ALTY OATHS, AFFID.A.VITS, AND STATEl1ENTS 
NW 38321 
1. Y.Jake every effort to guide informants away from \Situations requiring them 
to sign or fill ,out_ loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep contacting Agent fully advised of 
any situation wherein they might be ·required to sign such a form. Advise 
Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
3. Bureau will consider as last resort advising another agency of informant's 
relationship with Bureau, together with pertinent facts concerning in£or­
mant's activity; however, such situations must be kept .to minimum in view 
of obvious dangers to informant. 
4. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau advised as 
promptly as possible, ·together with appropriate re commendation f"or pro­
posed ?,ction. 
5. In no instance should you permit informant to sign loyalty oath in negative. 
1228 
18 
.3-13-72 
( 
,' 
l. 
