) 
107!1 - N S1<~C'.l'I01f 10,-SJ<:ClmITY IN'FORl1A~fTS AND SOURGF.S 
doournen·t in the pertinent informant filr. and is no·t to be serialized. 
If a particular• suction of thic fox·m is not app)icz~ble, such should. be 
noted the:reon. If it later becomes applicable, ·!;he serial num'ber can be 
noted at that time. 
[ [12.] Bulky mater:i.al subm:i.tted by informant 
Wh,ere informant or source submits bulky material other than a. statemGnt 
and same pertains to a specifio investi ",,tive rnwtter, bulky material m:,,y 
be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of execute~ 
form FD-306 or a channelizing memoranclum containing all applicable items 
set forth on form li'D•-306, In such a case, the original form FD-306 or 
channel:i.2.ing memorandum should be filed in the subfile of the i~tformant 
or source 2.nd the file anc1. serial number where the bulky material is 
located should. be noted thereon. 
1-r. ?AYl"iBN'TS TO IlH'OR11AJJTS Jum HA1'1'DLI!-TG :norT.!l.:Y R:CCEIVJm 
1. No gifts to informants 
a. Gifts should not be given to informants since such actions might be 
misco::i.strued. 
b. Relationship between Agents and in:f:ormants shall be maintained on 
a businesslike basis. 
c. F,xpendi-ture.s for gifts to informants will not be approved as blue 
slip iti:;i,s. 
d. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
represen·ta:tives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies 
anc1. reouest assistance regarding payments of money, gifts, or products 
or such companies to informants. 
2. SAC authori·ty to pay informants 
a.. In specific instances in which it is necessary and expedient to 
expend money to ob·i;ain information concerning matters or persons 
under investigation, which is not otherwise obtainable, or to advance 
expense money to enable an individual to obtain such information, 
SAC may approve payments of amount.: up to $200 and totaling not more 
th·an $200 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of the number of pi?,yments. 
This applies only to individuals who have Il£•Ver been regularly pi?,id 
for services or expenses on Burea1.1. au·thoriz::•.tion. In other wo1·us, 
once an inc1.ividual has been paid on Bureau authorization, regardless 
of the a.mount, this authority of ·the SAC may not be utilized. 
b. Individual who is pa.id on SAC authority should not be c1escribed in 
correspondence as an informant or source who is being -paid ~n a 
"regular basis 11 or on "Bureau authorization." 
c. The blue slip reclaiming any of t;hesc payments authorized by the SAC 
must clearly an: accur;i,tely explain ·the -ciro1.1mstances a.nd summarize the 
informa.ti.on obt~i:1ecl so the Bureau will be in a posi_tion to pass -
intelligently such blue slips for payr~~t. 
d. • Prior Bureau a.uthori ty must be obtai1: ~~ to make any additional payment 
to an individual who has received paynit;nts totaling $200, 
3. Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority . 
a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authoriza­
tion. 
b. In requesting this authorization, a justification must be set forth 
containing the following items and using the subheadings shown. 
(In espionBge and foreign nationality matters, use s~bheadings 
where applicable.) ·- , • 
(1) Recow.mendation • 
(Use follow5ng wording as nearly as possiblei 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
11I recommend that authority be grant!:d to 
continue (increase, decrease) payments to the 
above inform,mt up to $ {a.mount) per (month, wee~:. 
for services, plus up to$ (a.mount) ;,er (month, ;·,eek) 
for expenses actually in·curr~d. for a period. of months, 
effective __ (date).") --
1416 
18 
3-13-61 
( 
'l I 
