• 
• <. 
··:. ' • . 
CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE 
AND ORGANIZED' CRIME 
• The main thrust of our investigations of organized 
crime has been aimed at the key members in the power structure 
of LaCosa Nostra in order to-secure their imprisonment and 
·to disrupt leadership. We have also struck hard at the lower 
working level who are the money producing figures for ··the 
top echelon leaders. With progressively greater success, we 
have made deeper penetration into the heart of the hoodlum 
syndicate, the illegal gambling operations from which it 
draws much of its vast resources.· 
Prosecutions of hoodlums, gamblers, and vice :figures 
for violating the laws within the~Bur~au's jurisdiction 
have been steadily increasing. For the· fourth consecutive 
year, .convictions have reached ne~ highs, as evidenced by the 
fact that during Fiscal Year 1968,· .our drive against organized 
crime resulted in the conviction of 281 organized crime and 
gambling figures, compared with the 197 convictions during 
the preceding year. In addition, there are now 789 other 
individuals awaiting trial .in Federal court. The substantial 
backlog of individuals awaiting further prosecution indicates· 
that the upward trend of convictions will continue during 
Fiscal Year 1969. However, it is apparent that if we are to 
continue to be effective in our·drive against the hoodlum 
element, prosecutions of these matters must necessarily receive 
high priority. 
Recent Major Accomplishments 
Among our most recent major accomplishments are: 
the conviction of Ernest Sansone, Chicago Hoodlum, and five 
associates on February 12, 1969, in connection with a wide­
spread race wire dissemination service; the arrest of John 
Philip Cerane, current top leader of organized crime in the 
Chicago area, along with two accomplices on February 7, 1969, 
in connect.ion with the operation of· a large-scale gambling 
organization; the conviction of West Coast hoodlum figure, 
John Roselli, on February 3, 1969, for running an int~rstate 
gambling operation; the conviction of William Daddano, des­
cribed-as the 5th ·ranking mobster in Chicago, and four 
NW 3 
Page 124 
21 
,. 
i 
f 
' f 
t f I 
l 1 . 
f I 
! 
r i 
l 
' f r . 
i 
.1 r I. 
! 
' i 
i L • I 
I-
I 
\. I 
i' 
