87D SBCURITY rnvJ:~S'l'IGA'.i:I. 
IVo· Special St•ction and unavtd.lablc GeC'tJ 011 
Sccu1·ity :iude:>: oarcls of Dctcnm subjects fiJ.c,1 in 
special and unavailable seo·~ions are to ho dusii;­
natod by affixing colored tabs. 
{c) General 
1. Tabbing of cards 
No security index card is to cont~in tabs for any 
purpose other tha11 to des,ignate Detcom cla:::s:i.fication 
under foregoing provisionse 
II, Removal from Detaom category 
Careful analysj s must be made of each case :i.n which 
deletion from Detcoc category is proposed. For in-
-stance, when a key figure is being removed from such 
status, file review may well disclose that Eubjcct 
qualifies for Detcom tabbing for reasons co?ored in 
87D 7b (11) (b), above, independent of key figure 
status. • 
c. Individuals employed in or having access to k~y facilities 
(l) Responsibility . 
FBI is responsible by Presidential directive for keeping other 
Federal agencies advised of developments within their juris­
diction affecting plants hr~ving armed forces contracts, as well 
as othAr facilities, utilities, and criticil points of trans­
portation and communications systems which have··'been designated 
as vital to the national defense and welfare by the Department 
of Defense.,. 
FBI is responsible under Delimitations .Agl'eement for investi­
gating employees of private contractors who hav.e contracts with 
agencies of Department of Defense where credible subversive 
information concerning employee is obtai·ned. Thorough investi...;. 
gation must be conducted and consideration for inclusion in 
security index given concerning any individual employed :i.n or 
having access to a key facility who is alleged to. have bee;, 
.at any time in the past, a member of any basic revolut:i.onary 
organization or against whom sufficient other subve~sive 
info:i.•mation is in our possession which warrants such action. 
(a) Requests .fo:r investigation from another agency 
Wl:!,en another agency requests investigation of individual 
employed in key facility, institute i·nvestigation immedi­
ately if basis of request so 'warrants. .Advise Bureau o.f 
request, basis thereof, and t:•~t i·nvestigation is being_ 
• conducted. 
(b) Yer5.fication of key facili·::: ; Latus ·of place ·of empJ•·· 
Dep.\rtµlent of Defense key ··: dli ties list {mai nt·· 
each office) must be chec1->:.J for verification of. 
mation that a security investigation subject's p~. i 
employment may be. included in such listo 
(o) Jndividuals ~enied access to restrict~d tnformit1c,· 
Intelligence agencies of armed forces frequently a(l".·:i.s0 
that an individual has been ftenied clearance to work in 
a defense plant or to handle clas;;ified or rcstricj;qd, .... 
informationo In some instances clearance is denied based 
.. on information furnished by. Bureau. At other times, in­
formation in Bureau files is very meager or possibly 
nejative ancl basis Ior such denial of clearance is not 
known 0 The intelligence agency•is Tesponsible for furnish­
ing Bureau wlth any information involving disloyalty or 
subversiveness. 
Offi·ce receiving notification that an individual has been 
denied clearance must ascertain promptly basis for such 
denial and obtain all pertinent data contained in file of 
. • NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 793 64 
i 
I 
t 
·i 
~~ 
.•, 
'·l -
·1 " - :-·~ A, 
,"! 
i, 
