SECRET 
ANNEX F - VENEZUELA 
Venezuela is the top priority target for Cuban 
subversion. A campaign of terror is in full swing. 
Castro, Che Guevarra, Blas Roca and other high-ranking 
Cuban officials have, as recently as January 1963, 
told various visiting Latin American Communists that 
Venezuela is the first goal of Castroism in Latin 
America .. Venezuela is receiving priority attention 
from Castro, who has claimed that the Betancourt re­
gime will be to~pled by guerrilla warfare methods. 
It would appear from the meager evidence avail­
able in Venezuela, that the Venezuelan Communists 
have been thoroughly-briefed to·hide or deny any Cuban 
involvement in the present guerrilla-terroristic cam­
paign which is being waged in the country. The wave 
of terror which has existed for months in Venezuela 
has physically exhausted the handful of competent men 
in the Venezuelan police system, which has little or 
no time left over to track down evidence of Cuban in­
volvement. 
Support from Havana can ·be inferred, however, 
if only from the expert character of the sabotage 
carried out. In mid-February, for instance, it was 
discovered that the Communists have begun to use 
shaped charges to sabotage vulnerable oil pipe lines. 
Earlier attempts had involved more conventional explo­
sives. 
The paramilitary apparat of the Venezuelan Com~ 
munist Party, which is directly charged with the mis­
sion for continuing terrorism in the urban areas, has 
been actively engaged in carrying out other major acts 
of sabotage, such as burning down warehouses with ad­
vanced combustibles and dynamiting major bridges, 
pipelines and pumping stations. All of these acts 
have been well planned and professionally executed. 
_There is circumstantial evidence that the Communist 
sabotage of the Maracaibo oil fields last October and 
November was in reply to an appeal from Radio Havana 
to attack all American installations in Venezuela as 
a reprisal for the quarantine of Cuba. 
Last November a Venezuelan military court tried 
139 guerrillas captured in the course of the Puerto 
·SECRET 
_NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 29 
