13-00000 
PAGE 4 
Chicago Tribune, October 3, 1993 
Three weeks after its release, it is eighth on The New York Times national 
best-seller list and seventh on the Tribune's list of Chicago's best sellers. 
U.S. News & World Report, which ran excerpts from °Case Closed," writes: 
"Posner achieves the unprecedented. He sweeps away decades of polemical smoke, 
layer by layer, and builds an unshakable case against JFK's killer ... Lee 
Harvey Oswald." It quotes Stephen Ambrose, biographer of _Dwight Eisenhower and 
Richard Nixon': "The chapter on the £magic) bullet is a tour de force, absolutely 
brilliant, absolutely convincing. 11 
New York Times book cri Uc Christopher Lehmann-Haupt writes that "Posner 
effectively refutes hundreds of claims that have added up to conspiracy theories. 11 
In a Tribune review, author Jeffrey Toobin writes that "Case Closed" is 
0 utterly convincing in its thesis, which seems, in light of all that has 
transpired over the past JO years, almost revolutionary." 
Posner, 39, didn't set out to be a writer, instead complying with the wishes 
of his father, a union official in San Francisco. "My father dealt with a lot of 
lawyers .. He said, •son, these fellows charge fees you can't believe.• 11 
So Posner attended law school at the University of California at Berkeley, 
where he was an honor student, then joined a prestigious Wall Street law firm, 
leaving two years later to form his own firm. 
In 1981 he represented Jewish victims of Dr .. Josef Hengele, the notorious 
Na~i war criminal who escaped from Germany after World War II and died in hiding 
in South America .. 
11 It was a pro bona case, and I sued the Kengele family and the German 
government," Posner said .. "Nothing ~ame of the suit, but I accumulated 25,000 
documents about Mengele, so I thought I'd write a book." 
"Mengele: The Complete Story," which he co-wrote with John Ware, was 
published in 1986, prompting Posner to leave the law·and write full time. 
"Case Closed" is his fifth book.. "A weakness of mine is that I tend to 
underestimate the difficulty of each project I undertake. This was true with 
this book., but as I kept going I kept finding answers to things I didn't think I 
could get answers to. 
11 
The real cover-ups 
Posner agrees with critics of the Warren Commission who say its investigation 
was flawed. 
"There was a cover-up by the FBI and the CIA, but they weren • t attempting to 
conceal their involvement in the murder of the president but rather their own inefficiency and bungling, 11 Posner said. 11 I go into detail in exposing these 
cover-ups, but they can't be interpreted as evidence of conspiracy." 
The Warren commission's work. also was tarnished by a dubious finding of the 
1978 investigation by the House Select Committee on Assassinations, Posner said. 
3,vices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
