• 0, ,' I .. ,) i. '. ~ ; •, J • ~ 
d. The CIA site on Saipan. This would be very secure 
but would require a large amount of airlift. 
e. Fort Randolph, in the Panama Canal Zone. At this 
location the trainees could be k2pt secure but would almost 
certainly know where they were. 
Mr. Douglas said that a military base could be made available, 
such as Laughlin Air Force Base near Del Rio, Texas. He said that 
the use of such real estate might be tied into some sort of cooperation 
with Tracy Voorhees' Committee on Cuban Refugees·. He felt also 
that the U.S. capability for intervention in Cuba will probably not be 
effective enough unless there is more overt participation than has 
been contemplated to date. Gen. Lansdale said that he and Gen. Bonesteel 
were of the same opinion. 
Mr. Gray supported this general position, stating that when the 
current Cuban plan was approved, the situation in that _country was 
different 'than it is now. Since then, the Cubans have received sizeable 
amounts of bloc arms and have organized a militia, and Mr. Gray 
wondered how effective a few hundred exiles could be .. Mr. Dulles 
acknowledged that it would be necessary to have internal support if 
the Castro government were to be successfully overthrown; he felt 
that there is reason _to believe such support might develop, perhaps 
within the militia itself. 
Mr. Mann expressed the op1mon that the way to proceed is to 
seal Cuba off from the rest of Latin America and to settle down for a 
one or two year wait, presumably to see whether the tide might not turn 
in our favor. He said that in the meantime we could infiltrate small 
gr'Dups of trained Cubans as a token, but that we should postpone a 
decision on a striking force for four or five months. In thi_s general 
connection, Mr. Bissell said that even if it is finally decided that overt 
U.S. forces should be used, there still should be a nucleus of trained 
Cubans available. Theref_ore, our present activities should be continued 
in any case. 
Summing up, the Group decided that the possibility of splitting 
.the present body of trainees into three:: or four groups should be examined 
urgently (particularly in view of Mr. Mann's estimate that the OAS 
investigation might take place in two or three weeks)._ Alternate sites 
to be examined would include Vieques, Laughlin AFB and Fort _Rar.dolph. 
3 
• <) r.~-~1 ~'./ 
~-' l : ... ~ 
PROPF.:FY (\'. 
THE WHITE HG-~-:::. ,, 
mt 50955 Docld:32423488 Page 48 
. , . 
-
..... 
-
