.. • • • • • ! ' 
. • ~-- '. . • 
. . 
Memora11dum 'J". J. Casper to Mr. Mohr 
--Re: Attorney General's Staff Conference 
Wednesday, April 8, 1970, 5:00 p. m. 
. . : •. -
. . 
Mr. Kleindienst was also interested in the scope of our work and in 
• this regard the Director took this opportunity to point out that he did not believe the 
FBI should be investigating every bomb threat and that he poped that if the 11ew bomb 
• legislation as proposed by the President is passed the Department's Criminal 
Division will set appropriate guidelines. The Director pointed out that many of 
these major cities have very .. excellent bomb squads and they are fully equipped to 
handle these complaints. He said why should· the _FBI be paralleliJ!g work done by 
competent local authorities. He said, of course, in the local areas where they have 
no people qualified, then this is a different matter. The Director said in all of these 
cases we are always ·willing to make our FBI Laboratory facilities· and Identification 
facilities available as w~ll as assist the local authorities by covering out-of-state 
leads. 
Assistant Attorney General Johnnie M. Walters asked the Director· 
if he could see any lessening of the problents that he talked about in the foreseeable 
future. The Director said in· the organized crime field, if the steps he has 
recommended are taken, he feels there will be a decrease. With regard to the 
disorders in colleges and in the high schools and caused by the militants he said 
this is another story. The Director cited the incident of one of the subjects in the 
Chicago Seven trial appearance last night at American University and thereafter _ 
going to Catholic· University and then leaving town. He said that apparently these 
university administrators wtll not call in the local police, and he said it was dis­
graceful how they threw rocks, de:;troyed property and set fires at American 
University. He then also cited the incident wherein attorney Kuntsler after he went 
out to Santa Barbara, California, -gave a speech, and then left town, that Santa 
Barbara was the victim of three days of looting and burning. The Director cited 
the violence promised in New Haven when Bobby Seale is brought to trialwhereupon 
\ 
the Solicitor General commented that the judge· who is going to try that case was his 
law school roommate. The Director said that this is a very serious situation and 
it is entirely possible that violence will occur ,vhen Seale is tried. The Director 
pointed out that we have appropriately advised all locar-authorities of this possibility. 
The Director then cited the tremendous problen1s that Judge Hoffman 
• in Chicago had iH-handling the trial and said that -one could hardly blame hiln for some . •• 
• of his actions in view of the provocative acts on the part of the subjects apd the 
attorneys. The.Director said he recalled that Judge Medina in New York, ,vhen he 
.-· \tried the Communist Party leaders, the experience was so trying that it actually . 
broke his health. Peterson at this point injected a con1ment that· his people are 
(CONTINUED - OVER), 
- 4 -
.. 
