107R-S 
) 
SECTION 107 •• ECURITY INFORI:".IA.HTS .A.ND CONFID•.A~ SOURC}]S. 
3. Inde-:;: 
4. 
5. 
a. Prepare index cards on form FD-348 -and file as a4junct to criminal 
informant, extremist informant, or security informant index. depending 
on type information furnished. 
b. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained.with cri~inal 
informant, [extremist ]informant, and s·ecuri ty informant index 11here 
logical. 
Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to prospective confidential 
source, open 134 file (or 137 for criminal sources} and maintain as 
pending until efforts to develop individual are discontinued. 
Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used in security invest.igations, 
secure Bureau approval, and furnish background data of sa~e type 
required for potential security informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in wh"ich frequency 
of contact is de pendent upon circumstances, contact confidenti·a1 sources 
on whom pending files are maintained at least once eyery tno weeks. 
Such contacts may be posted. 
c. Contacts should only be made by Agent or .A.gents specifically designated 
fo~ that purpose. 
d. Letter to Bureau requesting authority to use subject as confidential 
source is to set out clearly: 
{1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizen­
ship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest record, 
and service record, if any ' 
(2) Details of expected co"operation of individual and results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
(3) Statement to effect subject is being considered confidential source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confidential 
nature of his relationship with Bureau. In addition, stateme·nt 
should be made that you will be alert to be certain subject is 
not a plant, and if he is connected with labor unio•n he will be 
advised of Bureau policy on labor matters. 
(4) One copy of letter requesting authority should consist only of 
first page. If request is approved at Bureau, stamped notation 
to this effect will be placed on single-page copy and it will be 
returned to field. • 
6. Security confidential sources !" certification of stability and payments. 
a. Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments. See subsection L, item 3b, above. 
b. If source is not being paid on Bureau authorization or if he is not 
employee of foreign diplomatic establishment or an international o~­
ganization .and is being used regularly, .A.gent handling must[certify 
stability and reliability by executing statement on this point 
contained on FD-209 used to r.ecord contact. Certification must be 
made at intervals of no longer than six months.] 
c. If source is employed by fqreign diplomatic establishments {embassy, 
consulate, United Nations Mission, etc.) or by international organiza­
tion (United Nations Secretariat, Organization of American States, 
International Monetary Fund, etc.}, submit FD-401 to Bureau every 
si:x: months. 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources. 
a. Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau of date when source is discontinued and reasons. 
S. PANEL SOUR.CES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Background investigation and approval 
a. Check prospective panel source through office indices, canvass 
logical informants, review appropriate credit, arrest, and military 
records. Limit credit check of individual to identifying information 
only {name, address, former address, employment, former employment). 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1186 
22 
11-15-71 
i 
I 
\ 
( 
I 
{ 
! 
• .. 
" .', 
/! 
{ 
I 
f 
