13-00000 
- 4 -
friendly territory were a responsibility of the Director of 
Central Intelligence with the customary approvals of the Special 
Group and that he wished this policy reaffirmed and proper 
direction be given so that the DCI would designate the organiza­
tion and resources to be used, either SAC or CIA. Mr. Vance 
stated that NRO was involved and that upon receiving the urgent 
requirement from CINCPAC for this single flight and upon 
learning that the Taiwan assets were stood down because of fuel 
control problems, the JCS, Mr. McNamara, and he had agreed 
that SAC should fly the flight. He stated that Mr. McAfee of the 
State Department had been informed on Sunday night and that 
the Base Commander in the Philippines also knew about it. He 
stated that there were only two targets concerned and that with 
luck they could be obtained with a single flight. Mr. McCone 
pointed out that the question had not been raised with him by 
Steakley as to military aircraft or sanitized aircraft nor was he 
aware of the cover plan that might be utilized in the event of 
difficulties. Mr. Vance stated it would be the regular cover 
plan of a weather ship off course. Vance said this was a one­
shot problem only and that as soon as it was completed, the 
planes and crews would be withdrawn. He said both he and 
McNamara were greatly surprised when they learned that SAC 
had sent three airplanes and seven crews to perform this single 
mission. He said they could understand the need for two air­
planes. in case one aborted but certainly not this large contingent. 
He said this had no connection with the South Vietnam broad 
coverage mapping and that the Taiwan assets should be used for 
this. 
7. It was apparent that all were in agreement that the 
Director of Central Intelligence had the responsibility for 
approvi1:1g requirements for photo coverage and for determining 
the appropriate resources to be used for this coverage whenever 
it required overflights of denied or hostile territory or whenever 
it required covert flights over friendly territory. Mr. Bundy 
stated that the DCI should prepare the necessary directive to 
this effect and circulate it to the other members of the Special 
Group for their approval at the next meeting. Action: DD/ S&T 
