'----
INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION 
1. Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 (Public Law 
86-257) 
The new labor law, as above, became effective upon its signing 
by the President on September 141 19 59. 
The language in the Act conferred authority upon the Secretary of 
Labor to conduct investigations of the majority of the provisions contained 
in the law. Authority was also granted to the Secretary of·Labor to enter 
into agreements with other agencies to handle investigations. 
The.Criminal Division of the Department of Justice during September, 
1959, has held conferences with officials of the Department of Labor for the 
purpose of arriving at an agreement to be signed by the Departments of Justice 
and Labor specifying those criminal provisions of the law, as well as the 
prohibition against a member of the Communist Party holding office ~n a 
labor union, which the FBI will investigate. 
Preliminary conferences indicate investigative jurisdiction of the 
following violations will be conferred upon the Bureau: 
Embezzlement of union funds; payment by an employer of a fine 
imposed upon a labor union officer; prohibition against communists and 
convicted felons holding union office; picketing for extortion purposes; 
deprivation by force or violence of rights of union members; and retention by 
FBI of an amendment in the Act broadening the Labor-Management Relations 
'-
Act of 1947. 
The finalizing of the agreement between the Departments of Justice 
and Labor has not been effectedo Until it is, we are not initiating investi­
gations without a specific request from the Department of Justice. 
We have, however, received 85 specificrrequests from the Criminal 
. Division to determine whether certain convicted felons are holding office at 
this time in labor unions in violation of that section of the Act (Section 504). 
-
We have also received 52 names of individuals who are reportedly • labor union officials, from the Department, requesting a check of Bureau and 
Identification Division files. Eighteen such name checks have been completed. 
These were highly placed Teamster officials and trustees. We are not 
processing the remaining 34 names until the Department provides us with 
further identifying data as to the indi victuals. 
-3-
