Wiley stated that h~ learned from a former[ :police-
man who served under Batista that every G-2 stwtion in 
Havana had cached 400 Czech machine guns and ap~roximately 
two million rounds of ammu:1ition. Source told iW,iley that 
he knew this to be true because he had worked pµtting these 
items there. Wiley himself definitely discount~ this story. 
Wiley reported that a source had obtained from another 
source who worked at this place that there were 200 Russian 
or East German (European) technicians at the Baracoa (ph) 
base. 
Jqiley reported that he had received information that 
at Marianu or Marianal there had been observed a number of 
pairs of cranes. These pairs of cranes consisted of a large 
c~ane and a small crane which are apparently built together 
and are so designed that they are used· for handling odd 
shaped or unusual sized material. No other details given. 
Wiley stated that inside the prison cell while he was 
first incarcerated, he he~rd that the Cuban pol~se claimed 
that they had in prison the head of the sabotage group~ 
1".hP. hP.Brl nf the Activ·l.st ~rrrn~1 -1nd thP. r,hj_ef nf r.jn<'!nr.P. 
o:;:: ti1t: I,.irt.B, 1i1uvcutc:11l i11 navaHa. 1HJ.t:f ::;i..aLed drnL }u:~ guL 
pretty close to the men in the cell. They apparently 
liked him and in fact talked quite freely to him and that 
when he ~entioned· this to several of these indi~iduals, the 
various men did not deny to him the above .. Wil~Y said that 
these prisoners admitted that they were connect~d with and 
were leaders of one of the two major sections ofl• ·the MRR in 
Havana. . : 
Wiley stated that one of the above mentione~ men whose 
name is Hermando Marchecho claimed that while be1ing in terro­
gated he was able to see reports which were signbd by three 
or four individuals which he recognized as doublb agents in 
the ranks of MRR. Marchecho stated that as far ~she was 
concerned, the appearance of these names on reports indic~ted 
that a heavy penetration of the MRR had been made by Castro's 
intelligence. According to Wiley, Marchechb was completely 
discouraged by this but nevertheless clearly indicated to 
Wiley that he and his associates and his organizhtion would 
continue the struggle against Castro. 
-26-
C\A SECRUT • 
mt 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 29 
