13-00000 
The ·comp11ter artist is manipulating patterns, be­
cause this is an inherent potential of the computer 
medium. The manual artist (or scholar), by con­
trast, is bound to laborious manual processing of 
data and pattern, and thus generally discovers to a 
lesser degree, further sources of innovative and 
perceptual changes, i.e., manipulation as practiced 
in the computer arts is not feasible manually. When 
perceptual change is accomplished manually (many of 
the works in Graphis afford excellent examples), 
such change is not only excessively time-consuming, 
but represents a manual tour de force. It could be 
more readily accomplished via the computer. 
The manual artist is generally not concerned with 
perceptual change or alteration of the original im­
age. On the other hand, since the computer readily 
affords such changes, the cybernetic artist may 
literall} exploit component designs, taking them 
t~ what may appear to be unlimited design 
changes. The more abstract the component design, 
the more readily it lends itself to mathematical 
variation and processing, termed design state 
variation. 
Design State Variation 
This is a term devised by the writer, adapted 
from given "state" variations used in printmaking, 
in which one may revise a plate or stone, and al-
ter it by additions and/or changes of pattern, re­
sulting in a series of new works. The term denotes 
known variations of pattern that are possible, which 
may be used as sub-routines or stored on the com­
puter library and merely called by the user, who de­
fines the values of the given parameters of the spe­
cific algorithms being utilized. One of the most 
provocative concepts emerging in computer art is 
that of being to literally predict innumerable de­
sign state variations, in which a basal component 
will be visually or auditorially pleasing. The art­
ist may use only those design states that reflect 
personal expression of design. (One might compare 
design state variations to the many kinds of chisels 
the sculptor may use in execution of a work of art, 
each giving unique effects.) Further, this library 
of manipulative design state variations is constantly 
being enlarged by experimenters in the computer 
arts. A brief listing follows: 
"Offsets of pattern on the X, Y, X/Y (pro­
gressions in music) 
Mirror images or reversals on the X, Y, X/Y 
Scalar variations or duration o! pattern in 
superposition of form 
~otation, in open or closed forms 
Irregular radiation of images and forms with 
growing scalar values 
Redundant serial imagery in closed form 
Polygon serial imagery, with circular, square, 
or varied final form 
Positive and negative variations of repeated 
or design-related patterns 
Disintegrating variants of images and sounds 
in redundant or transform pattern 
Metamorphic variations of images or sounds 
in predetermined sequences 
Transformations of pattern, in which one de­
sign becomes another 
Alterations of design by mathematical algor­
ithms 
Pseudo-randomizations of patterns with artist­
imposed parameters 
Overlays of images and sounds in dimensional 
forms 
Combinations o! related patterns, using any of 
the above design states 
·11ulti-media combinations, using any of the 
aforementioned 
Prior to design state variation, the artistic 
idea is stated in coherent, sequential steps. lt may 
be flow-charted before translation into a computer 
program. Thus the art idea is transformed into ana­
lyzed data, using synthetic machine languages, and 
is then subject to processing and manipulation via 
the computer using design state variations, reveal­
ing innumerable new, final works. Examples include: 
The warp and weft patterns in weaving 
Classical ballet positions, with designations 
of the head, arms, and feet 
Structural modules in sculpture and archi­
tecture 
Derivations of design from art or musical 
history, including the archaic, \he classi­
cal, or the contemporary 
Formulae and transformations from science or 
mathematics 
Stylistic analysis of a given artist's style, 
with designation and statement of a speci­
fic set of definitions describing the style 
Artistic composition of a given musical era, 
with-parameters of such rules 
Thus the art idea is initially expressed in the 
manner of science, but it does not end there. The 
choice of the art idea or problem should express the 
personal philosophy of the originator, whether it is 
mathematical formulae, natural derivations from the 
environment, or analyses of prior styles of artists. 
The personal focus of the original idea, ensuing 
variation and execution cannot be too strongly 
stressed! The design stii'tevariations allow the 
artist to choose the given direction of psychic ex­
pression. Further, selection of specific computer 
systems and art materials affords a highly individ­
ual element within cybernetic creation. And }astly, 
the varying techniques of execution, which may be 
preplanned or participant, add a unique and personal 
opportunity to spontaneously pariicipate within the 
formation of the work of ar-t, or to maximize the ca­
pacities of the computer in artistic execution, us­
ing preplanned or heuristic modes. 
Diverse Philosophies of Computer Art 
Stylistic analysis and resultant design deriva­
tion are highly visible in the computer arts and 
possess decided benefits: these techniques allow one 
to analyze more thoroughly the subject under study, 
and in addition, they allow the artist to gain per­
ceptual variations and permutations of the original 
source not obtainable by manual methods. (The writer 
and many other.s have often found these new departures 
from the design source to be as or more aesthetic 
than the original input source.) There is, however, 
a great tendency among humanists to concern them­
selves· with past styles and subject matter, as being 
more "pure" aesthetically than the present. On the 
other hand, there is an equal tendency among scien­
tists to exploit mathematical manipulation, disre­
gard art totally, and to have the computer and its 
peripheral devices accomplish the work of art, with­
out intervention by man. Here one finds two ex­
tremes, with beginning dogmatic statements by art­
ists of varying capacities and philosophies. The in­
sightful computer artist, however, seeks }o unite 
personal philosophy and expression with the highest 
level of computer usage.in a statement of artistic 
unity. However, one is conscious of new visions 
emerging throughout history, which are subsequently 
categorized and "cast in bronze," as "the way." Com­
puter art appears to be 110 exception to this gre·at 
(please tum to page 31 J 
