SECRET 
eight or nine months Castro was in power. Today 
the Cuban effort is far more sophisticated, more 
covert, and more deadly. In its professional trade-
craft, it shows guidance and training by experienced 
Communist advisers from the Soviet bloc, including 
veteran Spanish Communists. 
The ideas move fairly openly in a massive propa­
ganqa effort. The inflammatory broadcasts from Ha­
vana and the work of Prensa Latina are matters of 
public record. It may be worth noting that the postal 
and customs authorities in Panama are destroying on • 
the average of 12 tons a month of Cuban propaganda 
coming into their land. Another 10 tons a month comes 
into Costa Rica; most of it is spotted either at the 
airport or in the post office and destroyed . 
. The know-how is not only imparted to the guerrilla 
trainees who come to Cuba, but is exported in the form 
of booklets. There are thousands of copies of the 
texts on guerrilla warfare by Mao Tse-tung and by Che 
Guevara scattered over all of Latin America. Our agents 
have brought us, for example, a little pocket booklet, 
about two and a half by four inches, called "150 ques­
tions on guerrilla warfare," written by a Spanish Civil 
War veteran, Alberto Bayo. This was printed in Cuba, 
and turned up first in Peru. Another version, with 
100 questions and answers, based on Guevara's and Bayo's 
books, has been written especially for Peruvian use and 
mimeographed in Peru. This is about 5 x 8, and in­
cludes drawings on how to place demolition charges as 
well as charts for calculating the force of'various 
explosives. There is a Portuguese text of Guevara's 
book in Brazil, and a mimeographed abridgement of 
Bayo's 150 questions has been prepared by a terrorist­
guerrilla organization in Colombia. 
All of these textbooks stress that the guerrilla 
must be self-sustaining. They not only tell him how 
to make Molotov cocktails, explosives, and incendiary 
preparations from materials that he can obtain easily 
and sometimes even openly at home.' . Tpey stress that 
his weapons, his equipment, and supplies should come 
from "the enemy"--that is, from the security forces 
in his homeland. 
-4-
SECRET 
NW -~095-~ Docld.: 32424 709 Page 10 
