SECRET 
to land at Recife 9 Brazil, en route to Havana 9 and 
may have picked up some passengers 
8. Controlled sources who have undergone guer­
rilla trainingv and a comparison. of inbound and out­
bound travelers identified by travel controls make 
it clear that at least in the case of guerrilla 
trainees one leg of the travel is often by way of 
bloc countries and Western Europe. We know of Latin 
Americans given Cuban training who appear on no 
travel controls, suggesting that travel in both di­
rections was either by way of the bloc or completely 
surreptitious. 
9. A center providing funds and forged pass­
ports for travel to Cuba is known to exist in Monte­
video, Uruguay. The Cubans are known to provide 
forged passports for some of the returning trainees. 
One group of Argentines returning through Prague and 
Western Europe was furnished with both Cuban and 
Ecuadorean passportsv to be surrendered in Monte­
video prior to re-entering Argentina. 
C. Numbers of Trainees 
1. Our estimate that 1,500 to 2,000 Latin Amer­
icans have received subversive training in Cuba is 
derived from a combination of travel information, de­
briefing of controlled sources who have taken training, 
penetrations of sponsoring organizations, and in a 
few cases from the records of cooperating Latin Amer­
ican security services. 
2. Monitoring of travel into Cuba gives some 
indication of how many have stayed long enough to 
receive training 9 but does not permit differentiation 
between military training and political indoctrination. 
We cannot establish a hard total or be certain about 
length of visit because of travel via the bloc. Forged 
documentation obscures an accurate nationality break­
down of the travelers. 
3. The hardest figures on guerrilla trainees by 
nationality are obtained from established and reliable 
sources who have access to such information through 
sponsoring organizations and in a number of cases have 
themselves taken such training in Cuba. We do not, 
however, have enough such sources to provide independ­
ently a comprehensive total of Latin America. Only a 
few of the local Latin American security services have 
adequate assets for contributing such information. 
NW 50955 Docid:32283208 Page 8 
-4-
SECRET 
