.1 
5. 
[ 
! 
I 
I NW 38321 
~ ~ 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUB\~VE 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDI~ALS 
Predication for investigation 
87A 
In all cases handled under the prqv1s1ons of this section, the first 
communication prepared for outside dissemination (report or LHM) should 
show specifically the statute upon which the investigation is based 
together with necessary supporting facts.· Where investigation has been 
specifically requested by Department, this should be indicated. The 
following examples are illustrative; however, the basis for each 
individual case must be tailored to the circumstances of such case. 
a. "This investigation is based on information that the subject's 
activities could involve violation of T 18, use,§ 2383 (Rebellion 
or Insurrection), and§ 2384 (Seditious Conspiracy). A source whose 
reliability has not been determined has informed that the subject 
is planning, along with others, to travel to Washington, D. e., 
on April 30, 1971, to pa~ticipate in planned violent demonstrations 
during the first week in May, 1971, to 'shut down the Government.' 
Demonstration plans include the blocking of str·eets and highways, 
destruction of personal and Government property, and physical 
obstruction to prevent Government employees from reporting to work." 
b. "This• investigation is based on information that the subject's 
activities could involve a violation of T 18, use,§ 2385 (Advocating 
tne overthrow of the Government). The subject is an admitted member 
(or has been identified as a member by a confidential source who 
has provided reliable information in the past) of (name of group). 
The (name of group) in its public s-tatements and publications 
advocates the desirability and necessity of overthrowing the u. S. 
Government by force or violence, and the assassination of u. s. 
Government officers. The same source has reported that the subject 
actively supports these positions." 
Where possible, the first intra-Bureau communication prepared which 
indicates that investigation is being[conducted]should specifically 
indicate the statutory basis for the investigationo However, there 
·may be occasions involving individuals or groups in contact with known 
subversive elements where the purpose of the contact is not initially 
known and where a preliminary inquiry must be made to determine 
whether a statutory basis exists for full investigation. In these 
instances, a preliminary inquiry may be undertaken, through estab-
lished sources, for a period not to exceed 90 days, without specifically 
indicating the specific statutory basis for the inquiry. If after the 
conclusion of 90 days it has not been possible to establish a 
statutory basis but further inquiry appears necessary, FBIHQ must 
be furnished a succinct summary of the facts by letter together with 
specific recommendations as to further action. In all cases, of 
course, investigations must be based on indications that subject 
may be engaged in subversive activity, whether or not a specific 
statutory basis is citedo 
In the event preliminary inquiries fail to establish a sound basis 
for investigation, the case should be promptly closed and there is. 
no need to advise FBIHQ (unless FBIHQ has been previously advised 
of the inquiry). Nor is there any need to prepare an LHM or report 
where no pertinent subversive derogatory information has been developed. 
If the statutory basis for 
0
an investigation should change or be 
expanded to include an additional statute or statutes, the first . 
communication prepared subsequent to such change or expansion should 
specifically show such changes. Similarly, this information should 
be included in the next report or L}Th1 prepared in the case. 
Pag-e 1827 
5 
5-13-74 
C 
