13-
that they we~e engaged in political activities. The Chinese~­
fact. been usmg the NCNA office for propaganda and supp0rt 
pro-Otlnese revolutionary organizations in Mexico and 
Amcrlca. 
Central American Exiles il 
Mexico has _traditionally been a haven for political exiles ~­
Central American countries including communists · and othei 
extreme leftists. Several Central American parties, including the 
Guatemal~s, maintain liaison sections in Mexico Qty in order 
to keep lines open to the Soviets, Cubans an~ others. They 
operate semi-clandestinely for the most part in order to avoid 
repression from the Mexican government. 
Washington DC 
20 December 1966 
Because of the strategic importance of Mexico to the US, its size 
and proximity, and the abundance of enemy activities, the 
Mexico City station is the largest in the hemisphere. Altogether 
the station has some fifteen operations officers under State 
Department cover in the Embassy political section, plus about 
twelve more officers under assorted non-official covers outside the 
. Embassy. In addition, a sizeable support staff of communications 
.officers, technical services, intelligence assistants, records clerks 
and secretaries bring the overall station personnel total to around 
fifty. 
(1:ialson Operatioii} 
Dominating the station operational programme is the LITEMPot 
project which is administered by Winston Scott,f the Cliief of 
Station in Mexico City since 1956, with the assistance of Annie 
Goodpasture,f a case officer who has also been at the station for 
some years. This project embraces a complicated series of opera· 
tional support programmes to the various Mexican civilian 
security forces for the purpose of intelligence exchange, joint 
524 
'pl>C"8tions and constant upgrading of Mexican internal intelli-
• c:e collection and public security functions. 
~t the top of the LITEMPO operation is the Mexican President, 
Gustavo Diaz Ordaz,f who has W(?rked extremely closely with the 
si,Jion since ho became MinJster of Government in the prerious 
,dlninistration of Adolfo Lopez Mateost (1958-64). Scott had 
s1so developed a very close working relationship with Lopez 
Jt{ateos, and, since Diaz Ordaz became President two years ago, 
5c0tt bas been working closely with t1ie current Minister of 
Government,· Luis Echeverria.t Thus the LITEMPO project 
(ocUSCS at the top on the President and the current Minister of 
Government who will be the second consecutive choice of PRI 
Jeaders to pass from internal security to the presidency. 
Scott's chummy relationship with Diaz Ordaz none the less has 
its problems. In 1964 Fulton Freeman went to Mexico Oty as 
Ambassador to crown a Foreign Service career that had started 
in the same Embassy in the 1930s. He is expected to retire after 
the 1968 Olympic Games. At the time of his assignment to Mexico 
(lty Freeman's expectations of meaningful diplomatic relations 
with Diaz Ordaz collided with the President's preference for deal­
ing with Scott, and Freeman was relegated to protocol contacts 
with the President while his diplomatic talents focused on the 
Foreign Minister. The problem of who would deal with the Presi­
dent was confused somewhat by the Ambassador's insistence, not 
long after arrival, on a detailed briefing about the station opera­
donal programme, which Scott refused. Eventually both Scott 
and the Ambassador visited the White House, where President 
Johnson settled matters according to the wishes of the Agency 
and of his friend Diaz Ordaz. Scott continued, of course, to work 
with the President and the Ambassador never got the full briefing 
be had demanded. Since then the relations between Scott and the 
_Ambassador have warmed, but the Ambassador forbids any 
Sia.lion operations directed against the Mexican Foreign Ministry. 
While Scott frequently meets the President and the Minister of 
Government, two non-official cover case officers handle the day­
lo-day contact with the chiefs of the security services subordinate 
to Echeverria. One of these officers is a former FBI agent who 
worked in the legal attache's office in the Mexico Qty Embassy 
- the legal attache is usually the FBI office in an American 
525 
