/~~i1) 
-_/ 
(Apparently the suw..mary and status report and Contact 
List to which Mr. Allen refers is the previous quoted memo 
of 9 January . ) 
During February and March 1963, SRS representatives met 
/
with Wiley for discussion of an objective to place a skilled 
and controlled source in the newspaper community in Washington, 
, D. C. who would have normal, routine, and ready access to the 
1 Washington writing and radio colony. The long range plan was 
to have Wiley move to Washington, and begin extensive writing 
and lecturing to establish his prestige, and to slowly cur­
tail his other activities except for keeping his "excellent 
Cuban and anti-Castro connections. 11 The basic plan 1-ras to be 
forwarded to the Director of Security by the Chief, SRS, for 
consideration. Tentative approval must have been received 
inasmuch as on 26 March 1964, Morse Allen requested the 
assistance of Eugene Lyons for information as to an assess~ 
ment of Wiley's work, and the best method for establishing 
prestige for a writer. Wiley was not identified by name. 
In the interim, on 30 March 1964, Eugene Lyons contacted 
Morse Allen, confirmed Wiley's writing talent, and arranged 
! 
.. for an introduction of Wiley to Lee Wood (or Wocds), General 
Manager of Script (sic) Howard. Wiley cont~cted Wood t~rough_ 
Jynn~· pn~ ~hev arranged for a personal meeting on 3 April 1964. 
'fhe JJ:i.an, 1wWcv'ci·, £ell -::::-.rc:.:g:: .:2.::-:~ 1\'i:Lf:';' n~ver.· 111Uvt::u. ~u 
Washington. 
The plan, as follows, was presented in an undated m3~0~ 
randum form for the Director of Security: 
"During the week of February and on 7 and 
8 March 1963, extensive discussions were held ,,,ith 
Wiley concerning matters which are set out in de­
tail following. Mr. Wiley is in agreement with 
Chief/SRS and representatives of SRS that the pro­
posed plan which follows is the most sound, logical, 
and secure method of obtaining the desired results: 
"OBJECT ... To place a skilled and controlled 
source in some type of a position in Washington, 
D. C., which will have normal, routine, and Jeady 
access to the Washington wtiting and radio colony. 
"PROBLEM - Source must have sufficient back­
ground and prestige to be accepted; he must have 
FROM -79-
CIA 
NW 50955 Docid:32203889 Page 67 
