know enough about the political attitudes of the members of the Frente, 
particularly as to basic freedoms, their attitude toward restoration 
of seized American property, etc. (In answer to this, Mr. Gray had 
pointed out that the Frente- is composed of people who have broken 
. with Castro, at least on the basic philosophies.) 
In an attempt to clarify the situation with respect to the first 
point, Mr. Parrott told the Group about last Monday 1 s meeting with 
Mr. Macy, at which Mr. Barnes had covered in considerable detail 
all aspects of the Cuban project. He said that he was at a loss to 
understand how Macy could have received the impression that CIA 
is not aware of dissident groups. He went on to say that in answer 
to Mr~ Macy's question as to the outlook, Mr; Barnes had stated -
and had developed at ·considerable length - the the.sis that our view 
was one of limited optimism, and that he had explained in detail just 
why this is so; this explanation had included specific comments on the 
steps that have been, and are being, taken to identify such groups and 
to assess their apparent leaders. Mr. Parrott said further that the 
point had been made forcibly to Macy that it would be out of the question 
• for CIA to attempt to mount an invasion of Cuba by itself,. without the 
participation of large numbers of disaffected individuals within the 
country. 
Oh the second pofot, Mr. Dulles said that we do know a e;ood 
deal about the basic political sympathies of Frente members, and 
cited as an example the position that_ had been taken as to the inclusion 
of certain ultra-conservative groups. He said that the Frente bad· 
issued a statement of its auns, which he summarized very broadly 
as being to preserve the principles of the revolution. He said that as 
to specific stands on restoration of U.S.· property rights, etc., this 
was thought to be unwise because it would give the Frente t.l-ie appearance 
of being a tool of the Americans. He agreed, however, that Mr. Stans 1 
point was a valid one to bear in mind and _said we would certainly do 
so. He added that he expects to lunch with Mr. Stans in the near future 
and would take that opportunity to discuss these matters further, as 
appropriate. 
Mr. Parrott said that there was no disagreement that the political 
ideas of.these individuals must be constantly assessed and must be 
clearly established before the operation actually comes off. He 
added, however, that it should be borne in mind that once these 
politically-screened individuals had issued their general statement 
of objectives, our primary operational task has been to hold the FRD 
together, and that at tJ1is particular stage it would not be practical ' 
4 
(""0; r:--: ·•.-;, 
' - ,. . .. • • . .. ~ ·' PRO PU'. :·y o:: 
TH E W H l TE H U J S l U F ;:-::_·: ~ 
NW 50.955 ·.• Docld.: 32423488. Page 41 
V 
-
-
