\ 
107C-D SECTION 1. SECURITY INFORMANTS AlTD COI-rE .• llTIAL SOURCES. 
[ 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
Inquiries of discreet nature concerning individual's perso~al history 
(date and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, health, reliability, 
stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past employments, 
and business connections. Investigation must definitely establish that 
ir:·ii vidual can be used without danger of future embarrassment due 
to instability or unreliability. Securing background information from 
individual is not sufficient; his background must be established by 
'inve stieati on, including discreet inquiries among pers ens personally 
acquainted with him. 
Check local arrest records. Submit FD-165 to Identification Division 
to obtain any record he may have and to place stop against fingerprints 
if on file. 
Review armed services record if applicable. 
Check draft status or status in armed forces reserve. 
Check domestic status and, if any marital difficulties, obtain details. 
Persons being considered for use in espionage and foreign nationality 
cases may present special problems which limit scope o-f investigation. 
(See instructions_ re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, 
volume IV, of this manual.) However, where practical, C?ver above i terns. 
Leads must be handled by auxiliary office;; within 30 days. Investiga,tion 
must be completed prior to a.ny request to guide, direct, or designate in­
dividual as potential security informant. 
D. .APPROVAL, INDOCTRINATION, AND DEVELOPr1ENT OF ,POTENTIAL INFORMANTS 
1. When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same 
numerical sequence set out in subsection C, and request authority to des­
ignate individual as Bureau-approved potential security informant and to 
proceed with development. Submit by secure teletype (usually Nitel). 
Be brief and concise. Do not submit on U.ACB basis. Include physical 
description. 
_ ... 
( 
a. If the individual is a student, include separate paragraph clearly 
setting forth the number of extremist and/or security 1nformants, 
the number of potential extremist and/or potential security in-· ( 
formants, and the number of panel sources currently being operated at • 
the particular college or university to which the request pertains. 
2. .After designation as Bureau-approved potential security informant, fol­
lowing matters should be made clear to him: 
a. His assistance is strictly voluntary and he is to understand there is 
no coercion or intimidation involved. 
b. He is not and cannot consider himself employee or 11undercover .Agent 11 
of F~I. Seriousness of violating imperso~ation statutes must be· 
impressed upon him. • 
c. His cooperation must be strictly confidential at all times and if 
he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so 
advise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informant 
that his relationship must remain on confidential basis and if he 
violates confidence he will be of no value and by so doing Bureau's 
investigative· activity may be jeopardized. If he has special 
problem which would require revealing his assistance to his wife or 
other pertinent individual, this should be ascertained and appropriate 
recommendation made to Bureau. • 
a. If potential informant is connected in any manner with labor union, 
inform him that Bureau is not interested in employer-employee relation­
ships as such and is onli concerned with obtaining information on 
infiltration of unions by subversive elements. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1128 
-4 
2-14-72 
i 
\ 
