CONFIDENTIAL 
JE.AmIBTn: RANKJM :BRIGADE 
A sQurce who has furnished r.eliable information 
in the past has.advised that ~crence Hallinan, the son of 
Vivian aa11ina~;who is a member of the Communist Party, USA, 
Mortha.rn District of California, stated in October., 1962, 
that his mother would be willing to join the Communist Party 
if he? -~usband would also join. 
., 
Mrs. Martin Luther King, Jr., spoke to tpe assembly 
stating th.at .she was. totally opposed to the brutal saugttar 
in Vietnam and that women must use all their power to stop 
that ·war ..•. She described·present challenges as "m:i,.iitarism, 
:,;:,aeism and wantonit;;m. tt 
Jeannette Rankin spoke and welcomed those attending. 
She stated that their forefathers had written ·the •• .-:J • 
CQnstitution in such a way that the military could not take 
over control of the Government.a She stated that the women 
must see tha:t the military system is destroyed. She demanded 
that won1en bavo a seerc·i; ballot in· the election as well .us .. a. 
cho:ice in $el~~tinz candidates.·· She concluded her tallt by 
reconu..,ending that women everyY1here become candidates :for 
political offices. 
. .. ltatherine Camp, the President of the Won10n 1 s 
lntornational League for Peace anrl Freedom, an international 
women's pacifist organization 1 described to the assembly the 
activities of the delegation which had presented the petition 
to Spe~er tlcC01•ma~k at the Capito:,. earlier that ~ay. ' 
. One of the speakers; ?-.fro. J,Ii tchell Goodman, -whose 
husband was recently indicted by Federal Grnnd Jury in 
connection with counseling of evasion of the Solect:1.vo 
Service laws·,. stated that all the women nresellt should 
en.courage • their sons- ·to refuse the draft- •. 
Mrs" Dagmar 'Wilson, National Chair.mnn Of Women 
Stri!te for Peace, a national- women's pacifist group, told 
the assembly that political action was necessary in order 
to change the United States policy in Vietnam. She stressed 
the need for education along these lines and stated that 
this meeting would be the beginning of a revolution. , 
·.1 
1 I CONFIDENTIAL 
- 3 ... 
NW 38321 Oodd:32989544 Page 318 
L 
