Mia.11i, Florida, and further claimed that she had been 
slapped by an FBI agent. Wiley stated that this woman. 
mentioned the name of the nan but he cannot as yet recall 
the agent's name. Wiley also believed that the ·arrest had 
occurred in Miami within the last few months, also no speci­
fic date of arrest was mentioned. Wiley stated that Alvarez 
and the woman both spoke English although not well. 
Wiley stated that the interrogation was strictly rou­
tine. They ,vanted to know why he was in Cuba, 1vhen he had 
arrived, had he ever been in Cuba before, who he worked 
for, etc. Wiley stated that he worked for radio station 
WOR and that he held strictly to his newspaper =orrespon­
dent cover. Wiley stated that Alvarez attempted to talk 
tough at times but Wiley laughed at him and denounced the 
Cuban police, the Cuban military and the Cuban government 
to Alvarez and, in fact, invited Alvarez to do anything 
he wanted to. Wiley stated he bluntly asked Alvarez just 
why he was arrested and according to Alvarez said "we 
think you are an FBI spy. 11 Wiley stated that h':' pointed 
out the stupidity of Alvarez to his face and that Alvarez 
f'rom time to t.ime bec:;:1.me furious durinP- the interroQation. -· 
Wiley stated that the interrogation which was com­
pletely fruitless lasted about twenty minutes, at the 
conclusion of which he was given a sandwich and was told 
that he would be released in the morning. Wiley stated 
that he demanded that he be allowed to call the U.S. Em­
bassy but this was denied. Because of this, Wiley stated 
that he wouldn't eat a thing until the U.S. Embassy or 
one of their reoresentatives had made contact with him. 
He stated that he took the sandwich and gave it to some 
prisoners. Wiley stated at the conclusion of this interro­
gation he was taken to a different cell which he described 
as being about 15 x 15 feet having triple bunks in the cell 
occupied by 26 other men whom Wiley described as MRR types. 
Wiley described this cell as filthy, no ventilation, no 
lights. He stated he spent seven days in this cell and in 
fact went on a hunger strike. He stated he refused to eat 
anything and touched no food except on the Sunday following 
his arrest after he had been promised his release the fol­
lowing morning at which time he had a little soup and some 
other food. He added hm,;evcr because his release was not 
forthcoming as agreed, he went on another hunger strike and 
had no food until he was released on the following Wednes-
day, f f~· 
-22-
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 25 
