! • 
( 
., 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
120 
13. 
SECTIOH 107 •• CURITY INFOR11.A.1!TS .AND COHFIDErl.1.L SOURCES 
Instruct each interested Bureau office which has ma.de further dis­
semin~tion of such information to follow the instructions set forth 
abo-v-eo 
107S - U 
Also set up a control file regarding this correcti-ve action, and upon 
completion of same submit to the Bureau a final letter unde~ the in­
formant 1 s caption identifying each case by title, character, Bureau file, 
where known, and date of communication. 
This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau.files to ~ee 
that necessary corrective action has been taken in each ins·t:;.nce. 
If neccssa.ry, other field offices which have received information from 
the informant should also be reques·l;ed t~ submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been made 0 
:tt is imperative that all information from the informant be correctly 
labeled and grea·l; care must be taken to see that ·this is done. 
Occasionally, an ex-informant through his speech, writings, or ac·tions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
\nformant. It is not necessary to go back and ohs .ie the ~valuatibn of 
the information attributed to that individual in the absence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was an informant. 
14. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
T, CLASSIFICATION - 134 
u. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1, Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved, 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnishe-d. 
o·. The abbreviation "CS" may be used in intra-Bureau communications 
for confidential souroe;[e.g., "Richard Roe, CS.") Communications 
relating· to espionage and foreign nationality matters should in 
addi·tion have a character indicating the country involved; e.g., 
IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential source, 
the abbreviation "CS" is to appear before t?e symbol numoe.r; e.g., 
CS NY-000-S. 
e. Numbers assigned to confidential sou.roes are to be taken from the 
series of numbers used for your security, racial, and criminal 
informants, 
3. Index 
a. Index cards on form ~'D-348 like those prepared for informant~ must 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant index, 
racial informant index, or the security informant index, depending on 
the type of information furnished. 
b. ThP- symbol index is handled similarly to the. sympql inde:x. on inform­
an-:.s. 
c. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
criminal informant index, racial informant index, :i.nd the security 
informant index if the source furnishes information of value in these 
types of investigations. 
4, ~'iles 
When active investigation is initiated relative to an individµal who 
has potential as a security confidential source, a 134 classification. 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to de7elop the individual are disoonti&~~:. Files may be opened 
on confidential sources in crimiual mat··!rs in a manner identical with 
that for handling criminal in~ormant files in the discretion of the 
SAC. 
27 
7-14-64 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1573 
