( 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
SECTION 10- SEC1JRITY INFORMANTS A1:-ID CONF~IAL SOUR~ES 
U. PANEL SOURCES 
J... Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Background investigation and approval 
lOTQ' - V 
a. Check prospective panelists through office indices, canvass logical 
informant_s, review appropriate credit, arrest, and military records. 
b. If no pertinent derogatory informa_tion is developed, .initial contact 
may be made with a prospective panelist to ascertain person's cooper­
ativeness; however, in regard to individuals associ~ted with edu~ational 
institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning investigations 
on campuses. , 
c. Submit letter to Bureau requesting authority to use indi-vidual as a· 
panel source and set out following information: 
(1) Results of required background investigation and data as to date 
and place of birth, citizenship status· if foreign born, residence 
and employment addresses 
{2) Details of expected area of act~vity of individual as ~-panel 
source, together with results of any in~erviews conducted with him. 
(3) .A statement to effect subject is being considered. a panel source 
and that he will be advised he is not a Bureau employee and o·f 
confidential nature of his relationship with Bureau. In addition, 
a statement should be made that you will be alert to Qe certain 
subject is not a plant, and if he is connected with a labor union 
or educational institution he will be advised of Bureau policy 
on such matters. • 
d. One of required copies of letter requesting authority to use a subject 
as a panel 'source should consist only of first page of letter. If 
request is approved at Bureau, a stacipe~ notation will be placed on 
single-page copy and it will be returned to field ind~cating that 
authority is granted to consider subject as a panel source. 
3. Administrative handling . 
a. Handle notes, statements, and exhibits of panelists in same manner as 
other evidence. As panelists may subsequently become security 
informants, same procedure should be followed in handling, proce~si~g, 
and reporting data and material furnished by panelists as is afforded 
that received from security informants. • , 
b. Payments for legitimate expenses incurred and ·services rendered should 
be handled ~n same manner as payments to security informants. Gifts 
should not be given to panel sources since such actions might be 
misconstrued. 
c. Open 134 file when active investigation of prospective panelist is 
initiated. After Bureau has approved a panelist, clo~e file 
administratively if panelist is not cont~cted regularly. Regular 
contacts with panelists should be noted in their respective files. 
d. On~y Agents designated in particular case should contact panelists. 
e. Every six months submit letter of justification[(FD-401)]to B'ureau 
requesting continuation of payments to panel source. See section 
[130G, item 2b,]of this manual for form of letter. If source is not 
being paid on Bureau authorization, Agent handling source must prepare 
memorandum to SAC for file containing same certification as to sta­
bility and reliab•ili ty as required by paymen·t letters. 
f. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem exists or 
if typing would be saved. Use abbreviation "PS" before symbol number; 
e.g. , PS NY 000-S. • 
g. Designate, where practicable, coordina,ting Agent to maintain roster of 
current pan~l sources and current list of scheduled organization 
activities, who will notify Agents handling individual panelists of 
scheduled organizational functions to be covered. Coordinating Agent 
receives notice of coming events from Agents handling organization 
cases, security informants, and publications. . 
h. Advise Bureau of the date when panel source is discontinued, and the 
reasons therefor. 
V. Ch~SSIFICATION - 134 
29 
7-14-69 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1644 
