13-00000 
SECRET 
SUBJECT: (U) Identity of Human Sources 
foreign national cooperating with CIA is usually committing 
a unique violation of h:i,.s own country's laws--espionage~ If 
one gets caught committing espionage, the punishment in many 
countries is for a capital offense. On the other hand, a 
foreigner who cooperates with the FBI is not usually 
committing espionage. C_ooperation may be with .the full 
knowledge of his government--such as cooperation in a 
criminal investigation. Therefore, the risks for 
cooperation with the FBI are not usually as great as 
cooperation with CIA. In addition, the FBI has greater 
means for protecting individuals who provide information to 
it, for example, the witness protection program, which CIA 
does not have. 
II. Legal Consideratipns 
6. (U) Although Section ll(a) of the JFK Act provides 
that when the Act requires release of information, it takes 
precedence over all other laws that would otherwise prohibit 
the true names of sources. CIA believes that it is 
important for the Review Board to consider the laws, which 
have been growing and developing over the years, to protect 
classified information because they clearly reflect a larger 
U.S. Government policy to protect intelligence sources. 
7. (U) By Executive Order (E.O.)and statute, the 
President and Congress have made the Director of Central 
Intelligence (DCI) responsible for protecting intelligence 
sou:r:c:es. In his Directive of 22 January 194_6 which 
established the Central Intelligence Group, President Truman 
made the DCI responsible for protecting sources. With the 
establishment of the CIA, Congress also gave the DCI this 
responsibility. The National Security Act of 1947, Section 
103(d) (3); codified at 50 U.S.C. ยง403(3) (c) (5), requires the 
DCI to protect intelligence sources from unauthorized 
disclosure. In addition, ยง403(3) (d) (2) requires the DCI to 
ensure that risks to the United States and those involved in 
the collection of intelligence through human sources are 
minimized. 
8. (U) Protecting the identity of individuals working 
with or for CIA has been of particular concern to U.S. 
lawmakers since the establishment of the Agency. For 
example, with Section 6 of the Central Intelligence Act of 
1949, 50 U.S.C. 1949 ยง403g, Congress specifically exempted 
the CIA from the provisions of any law requiring the 
publication or disclosure of the organization, functions, 
names, titles, salaries or numbers of personnel employed by 
the Agency. Although the purpose of this law is to protect 
3 
SECRET 
