• • 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Senate Select Committee, etc. 
interview or testimony, and afforded an opportunity to discuss with the 
witness those areas of the proposed interview or testimony which would 
require no special arrangements and those areas which would require the 
information possessed by the witness to be furnished to members of the 
Committee or to the Chairman exclusively. 
We also wanted an opportunity prior to interview to furnish the 
witnesses information concerning their Constitutional rights, their rights 
pursuant to the Committee's rules, and to advise them concerning the extent 
to which they were released from obligations of secrecy made to the FBI, and 
to the procedures necessary to obtain authority of the Department to respond 
to a subpoena. 
Following discussion and vote this matter also was approved. 
Pursuant to such authority, I met with K. William O'Connor, 
Deputy Assistant Attorney General, from approximately 4:00 p. m. to 5:20 p. m. 
on May 22, 1975, accompanied by Inspector John B. Hotis. I explained to 
Mr. O'Connor that the Director was desirous of having the Committee under­
stand that the FBI wanted to be cooperative to the extent that it was possible 
and consistent with the need to protect the identities of informants, sensitive 
sources of information and methods, on-going investigations and other current 
operations and personal privacy. Because of this :view of the Director and the 
Bureau, we desired to make known to the Committee the fact that we would 
not insist on the presence of a Bureau representative during actual interviews 
or testimony of present or former employees, but we would want an under­
standing with the Committee and the Committee staff that the Bureau would 
be given prior notice of the identities of proposed witnesses, the subject 
matter of the proposed interview or testimony, and an opportunity prior to 
interview or testimony for the Bureau to consult with the employee in order 
to release him from his obligations of secrecy to the extent possible for 
purposes of the interview or testimony. 
I restated our position that we were not endeavoring to deter 
testimony rather we were attempting to facilitate testimony under reasonable 
eonditions and we felt that these matters should be discussed with the 
Committee. I told Mr. O'Connor tl:Rt we were aware of the numerous 
discussions, proposals and conferences that have been held in an effort 
to establish specific formal guidelines with the Committee, but that all sucb 
efforts in behalf of the White House staff and the intelligence community at 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38196 Docld:32989588 100 
