87D 
• · (10) 
[ 
JW 38321 Docld:32989529 
87. SECURITY 
(c) Subjects tabbed for detcom 
Security index card shall continue to be tabbed for pri6r­
ity apprehension in new office of origin until such time 
a~ it is determined by receipt -0f informa~ion by that 
office that priority desienat~on is not warranted under 
the provisions of 87D 7b (11) below. 
(d) Subjects not included in security index 
I. Transfer office of origin by FD-128 only upon veri­
fication by another office of subject's presence in 
that divisione FD-128 should show full title.· 
II·. Enclose copies of all investigative reports and oth·er 
pertinent serials with copies of FD-128 to new office 
of origin. 
III. New.office of o~igin is to investigate or advise Bureau 
that case closed if no action warranted 
Cancellation and removal -0f cards from active security index 
SAC shall personally recommend the removal of any name from the 
security index under the conditions set out in 87D 7? (4). 
Recommendation to cancel subject's nawe from the security 
index should be accompanied by a current investigative 
report except in case of death of the subject. 
{a) Death of subject . 
Destroy security index card without Bureau authority, but 
·: advise .Bureau by [letterhead memorandum.] 
lb) Permanent departure from the Bureau's jurisdiction 
{o) 
Upon learning of the departure of a security index sub­
ject from the u. s., Hawaii, Alaska, or Puerto Rico for 
a foreign country, immediately ascertain conditions 
surrounding his departure. 
No security index card shall b~·canceled by"reason of 
a subject's departure for a foreign country unless that 
subj~ct is an alien who has permanently departed eithor 
voluntarily or as a result of deportation' proceedings. 
In such instances the security index·cards will be cah­
celed only a,fter the subject rs departure· has been verified 
as being permanent. If a U. s. citizen who is incl~ded in· 
the security index and who hg,s been out of the country is 
1ound to have renounce~ his citizenshii and taken citizen­
ship of a foreign count"ry, his security index ca.rd may 
be canceled only after it has be~n determined that he 
does ~ot intend t~ return to the U. s . 
• -
Recommendations to cancel the cecurity index cards·of 
such subjects shall be made by lpt~er directed to the 
Bureau. The Qards shall be canceled only after receipt 
of advice from the Bureau that the Bureau's security index 
cards have been canceled. • 
Imprisonment of stlbject . 
Securitv index cardd shall not be canceled by reason of 
a subje;t's ~aving be~n imprisoned regardless-of the length 
of time he will be incarcerated. The cards of such sub­
jects shall be placed in the unavailabl9 section of the 
security index and the c~ses handled there~fter in accord­
ance with the instructions set forth in 87D 7b (6) {b) 
IV above. 
Induction.of subject into the ::i.rmed forces 
Security index cards of subjects who have bean inducted 
into the armed forces of the u. &. are to be pl~ced in the 
inactive se.ction of the field s·ecitrity.inde:~. Fo1low tJ,e 
_procedure set forth· above under 87D.7b (6). {b) (v).. . 
Security informants 
The security irdex card of any.-subjcct wl10 is developed 
a.s a security' inforrr.:i.nt should be canceled. In 
re.questing the Bureau's pcr1,1is:;ion to d.esignate such a 
subject as a security informant, direct Bureau's 
903 
60 
7-15-60 
) .: 
