\ 
C 
• ····•·•·~ 
SUPPLEMENT 
THE VENEZUELA.N Sl'I'UATION 
A number of high-ranking Cuban leaders since the first of 
the year have publicly called for revolution,in other Latin 
American countries, wit~ Venezuela singled out as a country 
with top priority. 
Coinciding with these appeals have been reports that the 
Venezuelan Communist Party (PCV) planned to step up terrorist 
activity to discredit President Betancourt before his US 
visit. The recent incidence of-terrorism, which has included 
attacks on the US Chamber of Commerce office building and the 
burning of Sears, Roebuck warehouses, is apparently part 
of this campaign. 
Involved in the current terrorism is the Armed Forces bf 
National Liberation (FALN). The FALN, although purporting to 
represent all of the opposition, includes some prominent 
Communists and is emerging as a paramilitary force of the PCV 
with its main strength in the Caracas area. 
Guerrilla bands also operate in western Venezuela, but 
there is no firm evidence that their activity is coordinated 
with that in the Caracas area. Venezuelan army units, with 
air support, have been used in a recent campaign against 
these guerrillas. 
The armed forces are generally capable of maintaining 
internal security and of defending the nation's borders 
against neighboring countries; The vast majority supports 
constitutionality and is loyal to the Bet~ncourt government. 
The armed forces would not hesitate, however, to take over the 
governme~t in order to mairitain order or to forestall a 
Communist uprising. The armed forces were earlier greatly 
frustrated over the government's inaction against Communist­
instigated disorders. Betancourt's recent willingness to 
take more vigorous action, however, coupled with the strong 
support given the US during the Cuban crisis, has· overcome 
much of this dissatisfaction, and armed fordes' support of 
the government is greater now than it was six months ago. 
The officer corps is generally free of Communist 
penetration, although there has been some infiltration in the 
Marine corps, two or three battalions having been involved 
in leftist-led revolts during the spring of 1962. • 
(SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM 
13 Feb 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin 
(REVERSE BLANK) 
Page ( 1) 
5tEC~!E1T=N0 fO~~~~N [Q)~~~~ffef\\ 
·-- - --~----------------------
NW 50955 Docld:32423736 Page 119 
!1 
'I 
