13-00000 
·•·····•····----.- ,,.,. ... ,-- .. 
SECRET 
PERSONNEL HR 20-53 
r53. CONTRACT PERSONNEL. This paragraph sets forth policy, authorities, 
and responslblllties concerning the management of contract personnel. It does 
not apply to consultants (see HR 20-52), to personal services acquired through 
industrial or procurement contracts (see HR 20-55), to personnel employed by 
proprietary projects (see HR 230-8), or to agents (see HR 20-54). 
a. GENERAL. There are two categories of contract personnel: contract employees 
I i 
~ 
and independent contractors. • . . 
(1) CONTRACT EMPLOYEES. Although they are not appointed employees, 
contract employees are employees of the U.S. Government. They have all 
the rights and privileges granted by law to U.S. Government employees 
in accordance with their citizenship status as well as those rights and 
privileges speclfled in their contracts. They work under supervised con­
ditions and are compensated on a salary basis. Contract employees are 
grouped into three categories: 
(a) Career Associate (Type C) Contract Employees: Contract employees 
who perform d·utles, usually of a clandestine and operational nature, 
on a career basis. They are normally required to demonstrate their 
operational value to the Agency for not less than ~hree years, in the 
case of U.S. citizens, or not less than five years, in the case of foreign 
nationals, to qualify for career associate status. When it ls necessary 
for a career associate to have the staff-type access to an Agency instal­
lation or classlfled information, he must meet the same security . ap­
proval criteria as a staff employee. 
(b) Internal (Type I) Contract Employees: Contract employees, engaged 
for a specific period of time, who normally work inside Agency instal­
lations. They are required to meet the same security approval criteria 
• as staff employees, but are permitted only such access to classlfled 
information as ls authorized in their security approval and ls required 
in the performance of their duties. 
(c) External (Type E) Contract Employees: Contract employees, engaged 
for a specific period of time, who normally work outside Agency in­
stallations. They are not required to meet the same security ·approval 
criteria as staff employees and. are not permitted the same access 
to Agency installations as • staff employees or internal contract em­
ployees. They are permitted only such access to classlfled information 
as ls authorized in their security approval and ls required in the per­
formance of their duties. 
(2) INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS are not employees of the U.S. Oovernnient .. 
They are self-employed individuals who are engaged under contract to 
provide specific services. They _receive only the compensation and benefits 
considered necessary to retain their services. In the Operations Directorate, 
their duties are normally limited to historical research. and analysis and. 
to the direction, utlllzatlon, spotting, or support of agents. They normally 
aono--i·carry out espionage or covert action tasks. (Care must be taken 
to distinguish between independent contractors, defined herein, and agents, 
defined in HR 20-54.) • 
POLICY 
(1) Contract personnel may be engaged when 
(a) it ls necessary to provide for operational or support needs which can_. 
not be met through the use of available staff personnel; • 
(b) services are required of particularly well-qualified individuals who 
cannot meet all requirements for staff employment; 
. ,..Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) E2 IMPDET 
CL By, 002230 
125 
·.I., 
SECRET 
.... :_ .. _.,.,-.. 
• .. ,_.·· 
