13-00000 
Introduction 
Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity to address your Committee on the 
subject of government secrecy. 
I believe that this subject is as important as any on the Committee's agenda 
because it goes directly to the heart of our political system. Government controls on 
information define the limits of American democracy. Limits on information mean limits 
on informed debate, limits on the ability of citizens to meaningfully communicate with 
their representatives, and on their ability to hold elected officials accountable. 
At the same time, it is self-evident that some degree of secrecy is necessary in 
certain matters of national security, including the protection of advanced military • 
technologies and the conduct of diplomatic and intelligence activities. 
• A sound government information policy is therefore one that strikes a 
responsible and appropriate balance between the imperatives of open, accountable 
government and the requirements of national security secrecy .• 
Such a balance is precisely what has been lacking throughout the modem era of 
cold war secrecy, leaving us today with a grotesquely distended secrecy system that 
improperly withholds unimaginable quantities of records from public access while often 
failing to protect genuine secrets. 
My hope is that Congress and this Committee will take steps towards a new 
balance that corrects the failings of the past, and will enact a government information • 
policy that better serves the national interest. 
In the following remarks, I will first present several assertions about secrecy _ 
policy by way of background, and I will then draw some specific conclusions concerning • 
the Government Secrecy Act. 
BACKGROUND 
I would like to emphasize several points that I believe should form the foundation 
for congressional deliberation on the future of the government secrecy system. 
1. Most Americans believe that government secrecy is excessive. 
One might well suppose that public concern about official secrecy is limited to 
• those who are most immediately affected by it, such as journalists and historians, as 
well as a small cadre of advocates and activists. But that is not the case. 
Public surveys conducted for the Department of Defense in 1994 and 1996 
consistently found that a majority (55%) of Americans believe that "the government 
