( 
C 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
... 
PART II 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND P.IC CONTACTS 
6A 
Under no circumstances should any employee ask or suggest that a news­
man withhold information from the public without the concurrence of the 
substantive investigative division and the External Affairs Division. 
So Fugitive Publicity 
News releases and other public disclosures designed to solicit public 
cooperation in the apprehension of FBI fugitives may contain more facts 
about the fugitive's criminal background than are permissible in news 
releases and announcements regarding arrestso 
In publicity regarding FBI fugitives, extreme care should be taken to 
avoid statements that brand a fugitive as guilty of a crime for which 
he has not been convicted~ Arrest numbers or other data that identify 
a photograph as having been made in connection with a past arrest or 
imprisonment should not appear in photographs of fugitives that are 
furnished to news media~ 
Field offices should coordinate all fugitive publicity with the Special 
Investigative Division and the External Affairs Division; and they should 
not hesitate to consult the External Affairs Division regarding ques­
tions or problems. that arise in any area of news media relations. 
6. Liaison With News Media • 
•· SACs ~ho consider it necessary or advisable to do so may use· one or 
more experienced Special Agents to assist in facilitating prompt and 
effective liaison with the news media. Such Agents will not be spokes­
men for their field offices. They may furnish information to news 
media in the SAC's name after it has been approved by the SAC. They 
also may assist in preparing news releases, as well as responses to 
news media inquirieso These Agents should devote no more time to such 
news media liaison duties than.is absolutely necessary. 
It is the intent of these guidelines to facilitate a more open stance 
and, thereby, a mutually beneficial relationship between FBI and.news 
media representativeso SACs, as well as other employees acting for them 
in news media relations, should be as responsive as practical and pos­
sible to inquiries and requests made by newsmen. The term "No commentn 
should be avoided except when its use is absolutely necessaryo If an 
SAC does not know the answer to a newsman's question, he should have no 
hesitancy in stating, "I don't know," and/or, depending upon the nature 
of the inquiry, telling the newsman that he will contact him (the news­
man) as soon as he has information that can be furnished to him. 
SACs should avail themselves of every opportunity to meet and become 
well acquainted with leading citizens throughout their field divisions, 
including representatives of all important news mediao They should seek 
to cultivate a personal, as well as an official, relationship with these 
individuals to the fullest extent that the demands of other duties make 
possibleo] 
lf 
2-27-74 
, NW 38321 Docld:32989529 P_age 1088 
