13-00000 
SECRET 
on the Committee staff. She arranged a dinner party with several of the new 
staff types - this is the Church C,omm1ttee not the Pike Committee. Seymour 
Bolton ca 11 ed th·e Pike Cammi ttee guys a bunch of young whippersnapper, 
snot-nosed kids. Really. The staff on the Church Committee was a little bit 
better. Anyway, at this dinner party, my wife came -along too. But anyway, I 
was the target of the night, obviously, and everybody zeroed in on me, before 
dinner and after dinner and everything else. • In terms to the approach t6 this 
whole bu~iness, where do we go from here and how. And I pointed out that 
they were ih a totally different environment than they've ever been before, 
telling them this was a different kind of a game, and I said, 
11
You are going 
to be surprised at the fact that you are not going to find very much paper 
around. And you are not going to find whole treatises like y6u do in law 
cases and what have you.
11 
And I said, "You are going to see _my nan1e and my 
initials on literally thousands of pieces of paper. B.ut I'd be willing to bet 
you're not going'to find more than a smattering of any substance before that 
initiil or befoie that name. You are going to find all kinds of references to 
•~s we discussed' and 'why don't we talk about this' and, you know,' let's see 
what we~can do about this', 'why don't we talk about this sometime in the 
future'. You are going to fi.nd very meaningless comments." And the guy said, 
"Don't you guys ever put anything in writing?" I said, "We can, but if we can 
avoid it, no." And he said, "Well, how do you get approvals for projects?" 
.And I said, "You write a project, and that you'll find. You'll find lots of 
stuff, lots of projects that we did. Some of them are one pagers, some of them 
are ten pages. But that's nbt what makes the whole place operate." And the 
whole ~urpose was to try to get me, I suppose, to tell them how to find things 
and what to look for. You .know, I donit have to tell them .. First of all, I 
78 
SECRET 
