6E - G 
• 
PART II 
• 
( 
G. 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
3. Auxiliary offices are to advise the office of origin by letter of the 
results obtained through a circular letter. Office of origin should 
summarize the results in its next report. 
4. One copy of the circular letter is to be filed. A list of addressees is to 
be attached. Upon the receipt of a reply, ·the addresseets name is to be 
checked to indicate this fact. Replies which are entirely negative 
should not be filed unless there is reason for doing so. Only negative 
replies are to be destroyed after handling in accordance with item 3 
·above. Sub-A files may be used when the number of replies to be filed 
is large. • 
5. A 66 file may be opened to retain copies of circular letters distributed 
in order to facilitate the handling of incoming inquiries and replies. 
Only one copy of each circular letter is to be filed therein. If the 66 
file is maintained, the material therein is to be destroyed after it is a 
year old if it is no longer needed. 
6. Circular letters and other information to be distributed or released to 
the public must be so worded as to be unobjectionable to any race, 
(color, religion, sex, or national origino] 
7. Trade publications may, with advance Bureau approval, be used to publicize 
information concerning fugitives known to be active in particular trades, 
businesse.s, or professions. The field office where the publication is 
located should check its indices concerning the publication, as well as. 
the person or persons who will have to be contacted, before seeking Bureau 
approval, and sufficient identifying data should be furnished so that an 
appropriate Bureau indices check may be made. 
RADIO[AND TELEVISION]BROADCASTS 
Radio[and television]broadcasts without advance Bureau approval may be made 
in ha.t-pursuit fugitive caseso Care must be exercised in broadcasting a 
license number believed used by fugitive as it may be disposed of to an 
innocent third persono 
FIELD OFFICE LISTS 
1. Law enforcement officials 
·on March 1 of each year all field offices shall forward to the Bureau 
a communication pertaining to a list of law enforcement officials and 
agencies whose cooperation might be helpful. One of the two following 
procedures. should be used: 
a. (1) On March 1 of each year all field offices shall forward to 
the Bureau in duplicate, and with a space left between the of­
ficials of each Department, the list described above. Indicate 
by an asterisk any change which was not previously called 
to ihe Bureau's attention. 
!
al Chiefs of police 
b Sheriffs 
c State police or highway patrol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
d u. S. Marshals and deputies 
e Ranking Federal law enforcement officers 
f Wardens of penal institutions 
g District attorneys or county prosecutors 
h Railway police (if desirable) 
i Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins 
j Any other officials who receive identification orders 
(2) Changes in the list are to be reported in duplicate to the 
Bureau as they occur. 
3a 
12-27-74 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 255 
(. 
,. 
" 
( 
(. 
