-55-
~>:. ·.:,:.~ .. 
/, The•; Commit tee· does not have this new 
11
marching order" in its possession. 
However_, CIA officials from whom the Committee took testimony believed 
that there had been no such definitive end to Track II. It merely 
tapered off, to b~ replaced by a longer-term effort to effect a change 
·of government in Chile. Kararnessines' testimony was most explicit: 
Mr. Karamessines. I am sure that the seeds that 
were laid in that effort in 1970 had their impact 
in 1973. I do not have any question about that 
in my mind either. (Karamessines testimony, p. 26) 
*** Q. Was Track II ever formally ended? Was there 
a specific order ending it? 
Mr. Karamessines. As far as I was concerned, 
Track II was really never ended. What we were 
told to do in effect was, well, "l'\llende is now 
Presiden·t. So Track II, whi.ch sought to prevent 
him from becoming President, was technically out, 
it was done. But what we were t~ld to do was to 
continue bur efforts. Stay alert, and to do what 
we could to contribute to the eventual achieve­
ment of the objectives and purposes of Track II. 
That being the case, I don't think it is proper 
to say that Track II was ended. 
(Ibid.,·pp.·128-129) 
When informed of Karamessines' testimony that Track II was never 
ended, Kissinger testified: 
The Chairman. Would you take issue with that, 
with the (Karamessines) testimony? 
Secretary Kissinger. Totally .... It is clear 
that ... after October 15th that there was no 
separate channel by the CIA to the White House 
and that all actions with respect to Chile were 
taken in the 40 Comrnitte·e framework. There was 
no 40 Committee that authorized an approach to 
---or contact with military people, no plots which 
I am familiar with, and all the covert operations 
in Chile after Allende's election by the Congress 
• were directed towards maintaining the democratic 
opposition for the 1976 election. And __ that was r· 
the exclusive thrust, and if there was:.any further;-., 
,,'" • ·1 --· 
contact with military plotting, it was;''totally'' 
unauthorized and this is the first tha 1t' I have 
heard of it. (Kissinger testimony, pp. 75-77) 
__ !: 
-
:._ ~-~1~: 
. ··~. 
