J 
1 Black Panther Party 
Detroit Division APPENDIX 
·;.@ANFIPENTJf j 
STUDENT NON-VIOLENT .C00P.DHiliTING C0M:'HTTEE 
.· 
The Stl)dent Non-Violent Coordinnting Committee (SNCC), ,~ 
headquarter~d at 360-362 Nelson Street, s.w., Atlanta, Georgia, i 
ii a non-membership organization, which was born out of the 
sit-in movement that erupted across the ~outh beginning in 
1960. 
Today SNCC identifies itself as an organization in the· 
revolutionary vanguard. It advocates that to be successful it 
is necessary to ~evelop a revoluti9nary ideology and revoluti6nary 
program. 
. According to SNCC, the year 1967 marked a historic 
milestone in the struggle for the liberition of black people 
in the United States and the year that revolutionaries throughout 
the world ~egan to understand more fully the impact of the 
black movement. SNCC declared that 11liberation will come only 
when there is final destruction of this mad octupus--tha capitalis­
tic system of the United States with all its life-sucking 
tentacles of exploitation and racism that choke the people of 
Africa, Asia, and Ll:!tin America. 'l'he realities of bJ.nck life, 
together with the reco~nition instilled in ~NCC workers forced 
its members to further popularize the legi timncy· of self--
defense and rebellious when oppression became too great. 11 
. . -
From Uay, 1966, unti1 1!ay, 1967, STOJO~Ly· CARMICHAIEL 
,•1as National ChroJ:man of SNCC. As of July, 1968, CARMICHAEL 
resided in i'lra.1ington, D.C., where he was affiliated with 
SNCC and 2ctive ns temporary cirnirman of a black coalition group. 
, In May, 1967, Ci\RMICILI\EL was replaced by HUBER'r GEUOID B:.1.0WN, 
commonly known tis IL, RAP BR~~'l_N, who served until June, 1968. 
In June, 1968, at the Staff and Central Committee 
meeting of SNCC held in 1-,t12_nta, Georgia, it vrns decided to 
restructure the organization by equalization of responsibility 
by crec1tj_ng ten deputy or vice chairmanships. The primary 
purpose for this change is to take law enforcement pressure 
ofJ any single individual. 
5* 
,.. 
