13-00000 
GATES: • No, sir, not in keeping with those safeguards. 
REP. THORNTON: I know, Director Gates, that you've 
recently released, as you told us, some .materials regarding 
Oswald. Can you make a commitment here to promptly release all 
of the files about the CIA's operations against Fidel-Castro in 
_____ the_...late __ , sos- and-ear-1--Y-- -'-60s?--- - -------- --------- ---
GATES: we certainly--the files concerning Operation 
Mongoose, AMLash (phonetic), and so on, are included in the 
documents that will b~ reviewed in the--
' REP. THORNTON: That was my specific followup question 
as to whether those files would be included in the material. 
GATES: Yes, sir. 
REP. THORNTON: I want to thank you again for your 
-testimony.-Lik~ you I"have not seen the movie? and that is not 
the basis of my concern. The basis of my concern is to make 
sure that all of the information tpat is in government 
possession relating to this assassination be released. Because 
in addition to the movie, I believe there are some inferences 
drawn by the House committee on investigations, and by the 
Garrison jury, that while no showing of a government conspiracy-;-'­
that there were allusions to the possibility of an external 
·conspiracy, and whatever may have existed needs to be dispelled 
by having the light of full disclosure shown upon the events of 
that time. 
of my time. 
Would you agree with that, sir? 
GATES: I agree. with that totally, Mr. ""Tl1"orntort-.- - • 
REP. TH9RNTON: Thank you. I yield back the balance 
REP .. CONYERS: Thank you very much,. Mr. Thornton. 
The chair recognizes Ms. Mink. -
REP. PATSY T. MINK {D-HI): Thank you very much, Mr. 
Chairman. I too want to commend the forthright position that 
you've taken as the head of the CIA in initiating steps to 
release important documents that will contribute to the better 
understanding of the public at large as to what exactly 
happened. 
I also agree with my colleagues that while the 
conclusions and inferences that were part of Oliver Stone's 
movie are under question, and perhaps totally negated by your 
agency, they are nevertheless, the basis for the renewed 
attention and concern. as to exactly what happened on that day. • 
And therefore, it seems to me appropriate that the 
chair of this committee asked you to direct your attention to 
the content of that movie, because what we need now is an 
informed basis upon which to look at it. -
I happen to have seen it, unlike some of my 
colleagues. And there are a number of very troublesome 
questions that the movie raises, and I am in no position to 
1 I 
