107P - 0. SECTION 107 
\. 
.ECURITY INFORl1.ANTS .AMD CONFil : :P.IA.L SOURCES 
P. 
Q.. 
• 
SIGNING OF LOY.AL'rY OATHS, .AFFIDAVITS, AUD ST.ATEMEllTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security jnformants awaj from 
situations requiring t~em to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or formu. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting .Agent fully 
advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a 
form. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4. The Bureau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant's activity; ho never, such s i tun. tions 
must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvioun dangers to the 
informant. 
5. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to be 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed action. 
6. In no instance should you permlt an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
DISCONTINU.l!!D INFOR.Y..ANT.S 
1. When the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card 
"cancelled." Destroy the symbol card. Never destroy the name card. 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symbol number in. the symbol 
number index. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued potential 
security informant or confidential sour.ce to whom a symbol number was 
once assigned later is reactivated, remove his name card from the 
symbol nu.rnber index., mark it reactivated v,ith appropriate date, note 
thereon type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential security informant or confidential source-is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha-
betical index card. • 
4. Advise the Bureau[of the date]when a potential informant or informant is 
discontinued and the reason therefor. 
5. Advise the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to testify 
in open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity.of 
all cases of s~curity of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance with section 69F, volume III, of this manual. 
6. Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Depart~ 
ment's interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available as a witness are contained therein. In those casesin which it 
is evident the Department has indicated a desire to consider the infr.­
ant further when he becomes available, ·advise the Bureau in each sue· 
substantive case, except in those cases in which it is obvious the s. 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This excep~-~ 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the Bureau. 
7. A statement shall also be made to the effect that the measures to con­
_trol informants, set out in 8 below, have been considered and recommenda­
tions shall be made when it appears that such are warrauted. 
8. When the services of an informant are discontinued, maintain close con-
. tact with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Bureau's 
best interests. When an informant is discontinued, determine whether 
he bas plans for writing a book, magazine or newspaper article, or other­
wise publicizing his activity. Jf so, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of corning to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than making other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1447 
24 
.4-13-64 
., 
I 
I ! 
-! 
· I 
I 
I 
I i I 
