14-00000 
The HSCA sequestered collection is contained in 64 
boxe~ of multimedia material, including paper, photographs, 
and microfilm which have been loosely organized into major 
categories of information. Boxes 1 through 34 are mo~tly 
material collected by the CIA's Directorate.of Operations, 
the FBI, and other Government agencies, including field 
reporting .and handwritten notes. They also include 
newspaper articles, name traces performed in response to 
requests by the HSCA staff, and copies of other documents 
such as the CIA Inspector General's 1967 report on CIA plots 
against Castro and Richard Helms' executive session 
testimony before the HSCA. 
Boxes 35 through 63 of this collection are largely 
records of CIA's Legislative Counsel, Inspector General, 
General Counsel, Office of Security, and Directorate of 
Science and Technology, as well as internal records of the 
HSCA staff. They consist of reports, memoranda, 
transcripts, cables, letters, newspaper clippings, 
photographs, and charts. Box 64 contains 72 reels of 
microfil~~the equivalent of roughly 72 more boxes of paper 
documents. This material includes the file which the 
Directorate of Operations maintained on Lee Harvey Oswald 
(the 201 file) as wel_l as similar files on additional 
individuals. Many of the microfilm documents duplicate 
other documents in .the other boxes. 
While not a part of the sequestered collection, a 
separate "Oswald 201 File" has served as a CIA repository 
for JFK assassination-related material over the years and to 
a large extent material in this fi;Le is duplicative of 
material in the sequestered collection. Only a few 
documents were in the f-ile at the time of the assassination~ 
The bulk of th~ approximately 26, 000 pages currently in this 
file consists of documents collected immediately after the 
.assassination and during the Warren Commission 
investigation. Included are a large number of third agency 
documents, primarily from the FBI. Other major additions to 
the Oswald 201 file include relevant Mexico City Station 
files and material generated by various FOIA requests and 
investigations, such as that of New Orleans District 
Attorney, James Garrison. 
Assassination-related materials beyond the sequestered 
collection and the Oswald 201 file which have been located 
since 1992 generally fall into three categories. First, 
there are new documents which have been generated since 
1978, such as defector reports that mention rumors or 
perceptions of conspiracies or newspaper or other open 
3 
