13-00000 
, .... 
; . 
The Honorable George Tenet 
September 14, 1998 
Page2 
to this most simple of requests. For me personally and for other members of the Board, 
this raises significant concerns as to whether CIA's highest officials actually have 
confidence in the reliability of the results for which the Review Board and CIA have 
expended considerable effort~ energy and resources over the past five years. Such 
concerns may be noted in our Final Report. 
Therefore, the Review Board specifically requests that CIA submit certifications by the 
individual directorates, as well as the office of the DO, or, in the alternative, that the 
Executive Director and the General Counsel certify that CIA has met its obligations 
w,.der the JFK Act and certify that no records on the assassination or Lee Harvey 
Oswald have been knowingly withheld. We continue to believe that these more 
stringent certifications are needed, in part because of CIA's belated discovery of core 
records relating to the assassination. • 
Absent certification by the highest levels of CIA, as sought by the Board, the Board 
considers depositions of senior Agency officials to be absolutely necessary. 
Accordingly, pursuant to our authority under the JFK Act, the Board requests that CIA 
make the Deputy Director for Operations immediately available for deposition. The 
Directorate of Operations has been the primary repository for records directly relating 
to Lee Harvey Oswald and the assassination. In fact, the Directorate of Operations only 
recently uncovered additional records relating to a KGB source with information 
relating to Lee and Marina Oswald. We ask that the Deputy Director of Operations be 
made available for examination as soon as possible, but no later than September 21. He 
will be expected to testify on behalf of the Directorate of Operations regarding its 
record systems, and its searches for assassination records, including searches conducted 
by the Counter-intelligence staff. 
Thank you for your cooperation, and please inform us as soon as possible regarding 
CIA's compliance with this Review Board request. 
Sincerely, 
John R. Tunheim 
Chair 
