1071-1 - N SECTION 1. SECURITY INFOR1'1ANTS .A.ND CONF-~i'TH.L SOURCES 
docurnen:t in the pertinent informant file and is no·t to be ser:i.alized. 
If a particular section of this form is not applicable, such should be 
noted thereon. If it later becomes applicable, the serial number oan be ( 
noted at that time. 
[ [12.] Bulky material submitted by informant 
Where inf'orman·t or source submits bulky material other than a statement 
and same pertains to a specific investi:,,tive ma·tter, bulky material may 
be filed in the investiga·l;ive case file, together with a copy of executed 
form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum con·taining all applicable items 
set forth on form FD-306, In such a case, the original form FD-306 or 
channelizing memorandum should be filed in the subfile of the informant 
or source and the file and serial number where the bulky ma·berial is 
located should bs noted thereon. 
N. Pl.YI✓.F.NTS TO INI:'OR11.ANTS Alm HAMDLilfG MOWEY RECEIV1m 
1. No gifts to informants 
a, Gifts should not be given to informants since such actions might be 
misconstrued, 
b-. Relationship between .A.gents and informants shall be maintained on 
a businesslike basis. 
c. Expendi+.ures for gifts to informants will not be approved as blue 
slip items. l 
d. Inves·!;iga·hi-v-e employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
represen·!;atives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies 
and reques·l; assistance· regarding payments of money, g:i.fts, or products 
o-J: such companies to informants. 
2, SAC authority to pay informants 
a, In specific instances in which it is necessary and expedient to 
expend money to obtain information concerning matters or perso~s 
under investigation, which is not otherwise obtainable, or to advance 
expense money to enable an individual to obtain such information, 
SAC may ap~rove payments of amounts up to $200 and totaling not more 
th:an $200 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of the number of payments. 
This applies only to individuals who have never been regularly paid 
for services or expenses on Bureau a.u·thorization. In other words, 
once an individual has been paid on Bureau authorization, regardless 
of the amount, this authority of the S.A.C may not be utilized. 
b. Individual who is paid on SAC authority should not be described in 
correspondence as an informant or source who is being paid on a 
"regular basistt or on "Bureau authorization. 11 
c. The blue slip reclaiming any of these payments authorized by the SAC 
must clearly an: a:ccurately explain ·the circumstances. and summarize the 
informati_on obt;:,,ined so the Bureau will be in a position to pass -
intelligently such blue slips for payr.cnt. -
d. • Prior Bureau au·l;hori ty must be obta.ir. <. to make any ad.di tional payment 
to an individual who has received paym6nts totaling $200. 
3. Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority . 
a, To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authoriza­
tion. 
b. In requestini this authorization, a justification must be set forth 
containing the following items and using the s~bheadings shown. 
(In espionage ~nd foreign nationality matters, use s~bheadings 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
where applicable.) 
{1) Recow.mendation 
(Use following wording as nearly as possible: 
11I recommend that author:i.ty be granted to 
continue (increase, decrease) payments to the 
above informant up to $ {amount) per (month, wee::, 
for services, plus up to$ __ (amount} per __ {mor:.th, week) 
for expenses actually incurred for a period of months, 
effective __ (date). 11 ) --
1537 
18 
3-13-61 
