' I , 
, I 
I 
I ! 
insane. Wiley commented that obviously the prison atten­
dants and officials were very worried about WilJf's health 
because of his refusal to eat and he was constaJ{1y being 
checked by various doctors. Wiley stated that he was r~­
leased from the hospital and was given back all of his 
effects except his tape recorder and his hat. On Wednes­
day, 3 August, he was released. 
Wiley commented that the individuals who were political 
prisoners impressed him very much; they seemed 11 real men" 
and were fanatically anti-Castro; most as far as Wiley could 
tell were connected with the MRR. He stated the regular 
guards were obnoxious and were detested by the prisoners. 
He commented that the G-2 Headquarters, as far as he could 
tell, had been in operation somewhat over two months and 
that they had probably processed over 5,000 prisoners 
since he recalled seeing the number attached to his card 
as 5028. 
Wiley commented that while at the hospital a civil 
officer, Rolando Fiallo, came to his cell and acted as an 
~ interpreter. Fiallo told Wiley that he wanted to help him 
!lnrl r,-f-fprpn tr, dn anvthiric:r f:or him thHt hP. cnnJn. Accord­
ing to Wiley, Fiallo
0
aµpe:re~ tu~~ a sLrong anii-Ca~tio 
type who had a great desire to come to the United States. 
Fiallo told Wiley that he had a good friend who was an 
important defector from the Cubaa Embassy in Mexico. 
Wiley commented that Fiallo sounded very honest! but that 
he could not tell whether this man was a plant or not. 
' , 
I 
Wiley stated that while he was in prison, ~uards 
brought in a man by the name of Leonardo Julio ~falter, an 
Argentine doctor. Wiley stated that he found o~t that this 
Walter had been picked up at the airport as soar,, as he had 
landed and that when he was placed in the cell ~ith Wiley 
and the others, the doctor gave the impression of a per­
fectly furious individual. According to Wiley,\ pr. Walter 
kept insisting -chat he was a friend of "Che" Gu'everra. 
Walter was an obnoxious type, according to Wiley, and 
stated time and time again emphatically that h1 hated all 
North Americans and in no circumstances would he treat 
them medically. Wiley could not understand wh~ this man 
was brought into the prison but reported it siiply as an 
incident of interest. j; 
I 
SEP '.~0 1915 -24-
C \ A. 
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 27 
