6G 
[ 
[ 
2. 
SECTION 6. 
A P.A.RT II A 
~ co",-,T·1 c Tb PUvuICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC n A ~ 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, check circulars, and apprehension 
orders 
E2ch field office must maintain a mailing list composed of individuals 
and organizations to which identification orders, wanted flyers, check 
circulars, and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each field of~ice must 
review annually its mailing, list in order to see. that no data is· sen-j; to 
firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations. 
A survey should ba conducted by Agents each year by every office, at the 
time the field office mailing li~t is purged, to determine- whether addi­
tional names of individuals and businesses should be added to the fieJ.d 
office mailing list. . .. 
a . .Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Bureau upon receipt of 
field request. (The Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, 
.Addressograph plates for new FBIN.A graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decide what organiz•ati ans, individuals, or concerns are. to appear on 
the list. 
(1) The quality of the assista~pe the addressee is in a position.to 
give 
(2
3
) The cooperation which has been afford~d 
( ) The following must appear on the list: 
.Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division Missions Providing Lodging 
Bureau of Customs Post Office·Inspectors 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus Postmasters • 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- ··.Salvation.Army 
ment Officers Secret Service 
FBIN.A Graduates U.S .. Marshals 
Hotels 
Im.migration and Naturaliza­
tion Service 
(4) The following may ap_pear on the list: 
.Automobile Clubs 
Banks 
[Car Re~tal .Agencies] 
County .Attorneys 
County Coroners 
Credit Companies 
Detective Agencies 
Enlistment Officers,[U. S • .Air 
Force,].Army, Navy, Marine Corps 
Employment Service 
Fire Departments 
Forest.Service 
Gunsmiiths 
Insurance Companies 
Movie Studios 
Navy Shore Patrol 
Oil Company Special Agents 
Parole and Probation Officers 
Plant Quarantine Officers 
Protective .Associations 
Race Tracks 
Savings and Loan Associations 
Service Recruiting Officers 
State Employment Offices 
State Hospitais for Insane 
Steamship Companies 
Telegraph Companies 
U. S . .Attorneys 
U. S. Commissioners 
c .. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. 
Should a compelling reason· exist for distribu:tion· of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for 
such distribution. 
d. 
e. 
Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels. 
Veterans Administration (VA) install~tions should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA instailations in such cases. 
4 
2-27-62 
; W.38321 Docld:32989529 1010 
( 
( 
