13-00000 
• ! 
- ...... 
PAGE 35 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
We are hopeful that the Zapruder family will agree eventually to donate that 
film to the American public. We have no assurances of that at this point. But 
we did set the time frame far out in the future so that the Congress can review 
this issue and make its own determinations if it so wishes. REP. : Do you have 
any additional questions? With that, I thank you all for -
REP. LATOURETTE: Mr. Chairman, if I could beg your indulgence and just ask one 
more question, if I may. 
Mr. Tunheim, if I might, my previous question about difficulty with the CIA and 
FBI. Sometimes I don't make things broad enough. And I guess my query would be, 
it's been brought to my attention that perhaps there's been some difficulty in 
obtaining records from the other body. Is there any agency within the federal 
government that you're having difficulty in terms of cooperation that would 
impede your ability to complete your work in a timely fashion, as envisioned by 
this legislation? 
MR. TUNHEIM: Mr. LaTourette, I have not seen any evidence currently that anyone 
is deliberately stonewalling us, so that when we go away, they will put the 
records back into the files. We had some significant problems early in the 
process, just really because agencies didn't understand what this was all about 
and didn't understand what the law really provided for. So it took some time. 
It's taken some time, for example, with the Secret Service to get them to the 
point of realizing their obligations under the act. They do now, and they've 
been very cooperative and easy to work with. But this has been a learning 
process for all of the agencies, and I feel at the current time there are no 
impediments among any of the agency partners that we'redealing with to 
completing the review of the records on a timely basis. • 
REP. LATOURETTE: Thank you. I thank the chair for your indulgence. 
REP. : I thank you all for your testimony and appreciate your coming today. For 
procedural purposes, I'll now close this hearing - the hearing is adjourned --
and open a subcommittee markup on HR 1553, markup of the John F. Kennedy Record 
Review Board Reauthorization Act. The hearing is now open. 
If there are no opening statements, the subcommittee will now proceed to the 
consideration of the bill as amended. Without objection, the first reading of 
the bill is dispensed with and the bill will be considered for amendment at any 
point. Do any members wish to be recognized to offer an amendment? Hearing 
none, the question is on favorable reporting of the bill, HR 1553, the John F. 
Kennedy Assassination Records Review Board Reauthorization Act. All those in 
favor say "Aye." 
MEMBERS: Aye. 
REP.: Opposed, "No." In the opinion of the chair, the ayes have it. It goes 
fast. The question now comes, will the subcommittee report the bill to the full 
