13-00000 
l> 
• 
ORGANIZATION 
Revised 6 August 1959 
PHOTOGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE CENTER 
The Director of he PhotographJc Intelligence Center is charged with producing 
photographic in Ugence and providing photographic inteJUgence services 1n 
support ot the Cen al Intelligence Agency and the intelligence community. 
24. FUNCTIONS 
The Director of the Ph tographJc Intelligence Center shall: 
a. Produce photographic telllgence in support of Agency and national scientific, 
military, economic, and eographlc Intelligence objectives. 
b. Provide photographic In llgence.support and services to the Agency and the 
Intelligence community. 
c. Maintain a photographic in lllgence facility manned and equipped to provide 
complete analytic and technl 1 photographJc intelligence services In support 
of special collection and explo atlon requJrements. 
d. Provide accommodations and ser ces within the center tor military-service and 
other Government representative engaged 1n Joint exploitation projects. 
e. Assist 1n the evaluation of other 1n lllgence sources through comparison with 
photographic data. 
t. Conduct an active program of researc and development In equipment and 
techniques tor providing Improved expl t,atlon of photographic Intelligence, 
coordinating such activity as appropriate with Agency, mllltary~servlce, and 
other Government components. 
g. Conduct liaison with and represent the Age cy to Government and private 
organizations on ·photographic Intelligence act1 !ties, coordinating such liaison 
as appropriate with Interested Agency componen s. 
h. Prepare photographJc and photogrammetrlc 1n 
ments. 
I. Assist In preparation of estimates of foreign capablll es 1n the field of photo-
graphic 1ntelllgence. \ 
j. Perform such other functions related to photographic "intelligence activities 
as may be directed. 
25. ORGANIZATION 
See organization chart, figure 9. 
FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE: 
DISTRIBUTION: AB 
21 
SFi'ltfi'I' 
H. GATES LLOYD 
Acting _Deputy Director 
(Support) 
