13-00000 
I,, 
' , 
-2-
recent past instituted separate records procedures to safeeuard their 
most sez~itive docUl!le~ts. CIA files, for one, are compartmentalized to 
lic:ii t access on the "need to know" principle. As one result, when responding 
in 1975 to the Church Committee inquiry into the Agency's drug testing 
program, CIA officials acvised that the relevant program file had been 
destroyed in 1973. In 1978, however, CIA officials admitted to having 
discovered among the Agency's financial records extant documents vh:Lch 
provided additional information a.bout the scope of this program. During 
the Iran-contra hearings of 1987, moreover, CIA officials, at times, 
distinguished between official and informal records while NSC official 
Oliver-North admitted to having employed a "do not log" procedure to ensure 
that his communications to his superior, John Poindexter, were not indexed 
in the NSC's central records system. Although the FBI maintains a central 
records system, FBI officials dating from 1940 had authorized a series 
of special records procedures to ensure that sensitive records were not 
serialized or ~iled in the Bureau's central records system or that sensitive 
information could be withheld if a FBI report was ..:irculated outside the 
Bureauo Tl:ese included: the Do Not File procedure for memos requesting 
and authorizing "black ba.g jobs; 11 blue/pink/informal memos for "administrative" 
matters in which cc:.s~~w~ "to be destroyed after action is taken and not 
sent to files section;" JUNE Mail for reported information received from 
"sources illegal in nature" or from "most secretive" sources such as 
"Gc·.,ernors, secretaries to high officials who ma.y be discussing such 
officials and their attitude;" and administrative pages/cover letters 
for reporting "facts and. information II which could "cause embarrassment 
to the Bureau, if distribut -d." Do Not File and blue/pink/informal memos 
were to be maintained in "office files" of senior FBI officials (and were 
to be destroyed every six months), JUNE Kail was to be maintained "under 
lock and key" in FBI field offices or in the Special File Room at FE-:: 
headquarters, while administrative pages/cover letters were to be detached 
whenever the report to which they were appended was "distributed to any 
agency outside the Bureau. 11 
S.J. Res. 282 addresses the inability of' requestors to id~ntify all 
relevant Kenne~ assas ... l.nation recorda and hov and where they Lght have 
been tiled. E,~ecutive s.gencies are mandated to make available to the Review 
Board "all us.:..asinatioa. materials" even if "uncertain 1! a record is 
assassination material" and the Executive Director is au\horized to 
"inquire as to the existence of further recorda" and then recommend that 
the Review Board "subpoena auch recorda in the event of denial." Properly 
placing the burden of ensuring the accessioning of all Kennedy aesasaination 
materials on agenc1 officials who are moat knovledgable about their agency'• 
recorda practices, S.J. Res. 282 further enables the Ex::ecutive Director 
and start to identify additiou.l recorda learned through a close readiag 
ot' croas references. in the "available" documents. 
Section 6, moreoTer, addresses the companion obstacle to full disclosure, 
the discretion which the FOIA allow■ federal ageacy official.a to withhold 
ca.te_gories of information when releasing FOIA-requeated ~ocuments. Particularly 
