V 
·.__,, 
'f(Q)flD §!E<C~!E'lr 
SENSITIVE 
V. TARGET SCHEDULE 
A, Intellig~nce 
Task 1: NIE 85-62 on Cuba due 7 February {CIA). 
Task 2: By 15 February, Opa Locka Interrogation Center to be made· 
an effective operation for collection and processing of intelligence (CIA 
with support of Defense, State, !&NS, FBI). 
Task 3: Intelligence collection from Cuban refugees elsewhere than 
Miami area. CIA to survey other refugee points (Puerto 
etc.) and on a priority basis to ensure maximum 
source points, 15 February target date. 
Task 4: CIA to continue its re-examination of intelligence assets, 
with priority on agents inside Cuba, and report on capability by 15 Feb­
ru;i. ry. Also included is cove rage of intelligence th rough third country 
sources, particularly those having diplomatic relations with Cuba. 
B. Political 
Task 5: CIA to submit plan by l February for defection of top Cuban 
government officials, to fracture the regime from within. This effort 
must be imaginative and bold enough to consider a "name" defector to 
be worth at least a million U.S. dollars, ,This can be the key to our 
political action goal and must be mounted without delay as a major CIA· 
project. 
Task 6: CIA to complete plans by l February for Cover and Decep­
tion actions, to help fracture the Communist regime in Cuba. Defense, 
State and FBI a re to collaborate on this. 
"i---•i:~,,,..;.·,<;' 
Ta.sk rf:iilJ.ruary, CIA to submit operations schedule for 
initiatil1:gfp.9 ,.,,-_:;6y'~,inent within Cuba. This must include localities 
selcct~d:;I'l{~ '-ii·sessment of selected Cubans, their infiltra-
tion, atii~ty ,g'i{ir{ft;{s.;~ and political platform. One section must 
>.-'~:,t;.•! _.i"~-•-_l..·, ·, 
deal witli·,the .. _11un .. :~,rground," assess its true status and plans to use it. 
Task 8: State to follow up the OAS meeting by having U. S, 
Embassies in Latin America exploit all opportunities to enlist local 
sympathy for the Cuban people and to increase hostility-.towards the 
Communist regime in Cuba. State to submit report on results of this 
assignment by 13 February, so further planning can be progratnmed, 
Task 9: Dy 15 February, State to submit an inventory of operational 
assets in the Caribbean area, including capabilities of local governments 
or gr.cups to mount operations on their own, to help achieve the Project's 
goals,. Plans for early- use of such capabilities are due by 19 February. 
Task 10: CIA to submit operational .schedule for using assets in the 
Caribbean area to achieve ·the Project's political action goals. The 
objective of working on dynamic elements of the Cuban population (such 
as workers, farmers) is underscored. Due 19 February. 
NW 50955 Docid:32202426 Page 5 
