13-00000 
[ 
il 
C. 
11 April 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 11 April 1963 
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. McCone 
Dr. Scoville, Colonel Ledford and Colonel Steakley 
were present for Items 1 - 3. 
Mr. FitzGerald was present for Item 4. 
r: . ·. .. . • . .• " .. : " - • • 
1. 1 ~connaissance. Northern Laos 
/ '. ,• 
It was agreed that the proposal for this coverage, which was 
contained j.n the NRO paper of 4 April and which was deferred last 
week, should be approved. 
Mr. McCone mentioned the difficulties which have arisen with 
Sarit, noting particularly that he is unwilling to give permission 
for the renewed use of Takhli until certain Thai officials return 
to Bangkok from Paris, which will be around.the 20th of this month. 
Mr. McCone mentioned the possibility of basing the aircraft in the 
Philippines or Taiwan, if the Takhli possibility should fall through 
completely. 
The DCI said that if it proves impossible to mount missions 
designed to cover the Sino-Indian border, then three will be required 
for Laos and North Vietnam. If on the other hand the Sino-Indian 
missions are run, then only two additional ones woul~ be required to 
cover Laos and North Vietnam, since some of the area could be covered 
in the process of the· Sino-Indian coverage. 
Mr. Bundy will clear these proposals with higher authori~Y_] 
2. • {ioverage of Sino-Indian Border Area '/$ 
Dr. Scoville reported on the difficulties encountered in ob­
taining Indian approval for staging aircraft through that country, 
stressing the fact that the chief of the intelligence service will 
not be available in India until the 16th of this month, and no 
decision can be expected before then. He said that the time before 
the onset of the monsoon season is getting short. Dr. Scoville said~ 
that efforts are continuing to get staging approval from the Indians,t 1 
as well as approval from the Thais to base in Takh19 
,...~~~~.-::-r •• '':"' 
: .. _ .. - . ~~ 
EYES or~L'( 
