' 
87E 
i · r 
l 
C 
"/ 
• 
NW.38321 
' 
6. 
7. 
( 3) 
SECTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIOU;., \ 
Open 134 lb ~hen active investigation o~:rospeotive 
panelist is ini t:i.ated. When preliminary investigation 
completed and Bureau has approved pan~list, close file 
administratively if panelist is not co_ntaoted regularly. 
Regular oontaots with panelists should be noted in their 
respective files, 
Only Agent~ designated should handle panelists. 
Every four months submit letter of justification to Bure~.u. 
requesting continuation of payments to panel souroe. Seo 
section 107N,[3b,]-volume IV, of tltis manual for form of lctte:c. 
If so~rce is·not being paid on Bureau authorization~ Agent 
handling source must prepare memorandum to SAC for file contaln­
i~g same certification as to stability and reliability as 
required by payment letters. 
Gifts to sources shall not be reclaimed as blue slip items, 
( 6) Summary letter captioned "P.anel Source Program" (Bu.file 
134-1113) to be prepared and submitted to Bureau March 25 
and September 25 each year, Use following -topical outl.inc: 
(a) Status of Rrogram 
Include progress in panel development. [Show·]total number 
of ne?t panelists developed and total number of panelis·{;s 
discontinued during six months' period. 
Total nlllllber- panel sources active 
Names of organiz•ations covered 
1Tumber and iaentiiiies of panelists redesignated- to informant 
. or potential informant status since institution of panel 
program • • 
a. Suggestion 
Designate, where practicable, coordinating Agent .to mc.intain roster 
of current panel members and current lisi; of scheduled organization 
aoti vi ties, who will notify Agents handling individual panelis -lis of 
scheduled organizational functions to be co-vered·. Coordinating 
Agent receives notice of coming events from Agents handling organiza­
tion oases, security informants, and cow.munist publications; e.g., 
"'1The Worker. 11 
Classification - 100 
Charao·l;er - Internal Security - letters for organizational activity or 
nationalistic tendency;_ e.g., (c), (SWP),, (Miscellaneous), etc • 
• 88 
3-:-16-60 
Page891 
t· t • 
{ : 
) :! 
l • 
- ·: l 
~ r 
