13-00000 
.. 
MEMORANDUM FOR: 
FROM: 
OFFICE: 
SUBJECT: 
REFERENCE: 
John Pereira @ DCI 
Fred Wickham @ DO 
Lee Strickland @ DA 
J. Barry Harrelson 
JFK Project Officer 
CSI/HRG 
SECRET 
ARRB 22 January Meeting •· Agenda 
CLBY~ 
Cl REASON: Section 1.5 C 
DECL DI: Xl 
DRV FRM: CQV 2-87 
15 January 1998 
1. The following items are on the ARRB meeting agenda for 22 January 1998: 
(SI A. Reconsideration of the(State Cover.JThe ARRB staff has advised that briefings by senior CIA andtof Sfate olfi~are 
not required. However, the Agenc~re welcome to make a presentation if it will add to the information being presented in the 
"evidence memorandum". The evidence memorandum must be at.AR RB no later than Tuesday _jg_ January. Mr. Gunn has suggested 
we may want to have individuals standing by for questions. The current plan is for Lee Strlfkland and me to be available at 600 E. St. 
NW. to answer any questions. 
(AIUO) ··• lk-Dffice of Personnel files in the Sequestered Collection (Microfilm). The ARRB staff will reco~end to the Board that 
personnel filesbe.d8£fared NBR (Not Believed Relevant) and their release postponed until 2017. The Agency position is that the privacy 
of each individual clearly outweighs the public interest, most of the information in these files has no relevance to the assassination story, 
and any related information exist elsewhere in the collection. At ARRB staff request HRP is preparing five OP files for review by Board 
members .• The ARRB staff will prepare a memorandum for public release describing the files; their memo will be coordinated with the 
Agency prior to release. 
(AIOU) · . C. Non-related files/documents in the Sequestered Collection (Microfilm). The ARRB staff will recommend that the files 
and documenis (approximately 35,000 pages) designated non-related by CIA during the 1994 review of the microfilm be declared NBR 
• and released in 2017. If therecommendation is accepted by the Board, the ARRB staff will prepare an unclassified description of the 
records fof public release. This too will be coordinated with the Agency prior to release . 
. ll-□ther possible items: 
(AIUDI i. ARRB Request# CIA 1 •·· The ARRB staff may request that the DO documents at issue in this request be 
declared Assassination Records to be released in full or sanitized form. 
1 
SECRET 
