NW 
- PART II -
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS , AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
6B • 
SECTION 60 
. B,. FBI LAW lil\fFORCEMENT' BULLETIN c· 
This publication is issued the first of each month by the Bureau for the 
benefit of law enforcement agencies. 
lo Contents 
a. Foreword by the Director 
b. Interesting case write-ups 
c. Articles which might assist law enforcement officers 
d. Deleted 
2~ Distribution 
Limited to law enforcement officers and others engaged in or having a 
legitimate interest in law enforcement work 
3. Filing and indexing 
a. In a 66 ilassification file, bound on the side, and fully indexed. 
Informative matter to be indexed under subject matter.· For uni­
formity, the Bureau is to forward by routing slip to all divi­
sions each month an indexing list of the basic and pertinent 
items to .be indexed. Index cards a<re to be• pre pared··· by -ea-ch· 
office. Any additional items not listed but considered to be 
worthy of indexing by a particular office should also be indexed. 
The indexing lists are to be destroyed after the field office 
inspection by FBIHQ. 
b. This :file may be destroyed when it is over five years old. Retain 
index cards. 
c. Current copy should be placed i.n bookcase, available to all Agents. 
do Deleted 
4. E~ch office must submit to the Bureau annually at least three suggestions 
for articles, identifying the suggested author, and briefly describing 
the nature.of the suggested article. The article should not be prepared, 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any general or specific sub-
je9t of law enforcement interest, including the following: (r 
a. Be·tter· investigative or administrative methods and techniques of . 
any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI N~tional 
Academy graduates 
b. Improved or unusual equipment being use·d 
c.. Complicated, unusual, and well-handled cases which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems and excellent. police work 
d. Deleted . 
e. Police and firearms training subjects 
f. Crime prevention articles from departments which have taken aggressive 
action to combat juvenile delinquency 
go Transmit all material to the Bureau under the caption: 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
[ Research[(External Affairs]Division) 
Docld:32989529 Page 237. 
2 
2-27-74 
( 
