• 
.... 
UNITED STATES SENATE SELllCT com,UTTEE 
'.£0 STUDY GOVERID,1ENTAL OPERATIONS 
WITH R'ESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES 
• 
Reference ~o mado to Legal Counsel memorandum to 
J.B. Adams, dated 7/29/75, captioned usenstudy 75," wherein 
the request of llr. Johnson is set forth as well as the approved 
release of Messrs.Smith and Cotter from their employment 
agreement as it relates to the t'Huston Plan.n On 8/4/75 
Special Agent Thomas J. l1lcNif£ attempted to contact Ur. Smith 
at his home phone 301-262-1921. An adult female answered and 
advised that she was baby-sitting for Mr. and !lrs. Smith who 
are currently in No,., Me;,ico and are not expected to return 
for an additional two ueeks. Special Agent McNiff left his 
nane and office phone number with the request that llr. Smith 
call him upon his return to his residence. 
( 
Mr. Richard Cotter on 8/ 4/7 5 was contacted at his 
home residence phone 256-7227 and advised of the SSC desire 
to interview him within the p.arameter outlined above. Mr. Cotter 
. was advised that he has been ~elensed from his employment 
• agreement wit~Nthe above parameter and that should he so request 
a Bureau Agent will b~ made available to hira for consultation 
at the time of the interview. It was pointed out to Mr. Cotter 
that during the interview there are certain privileged areas 
concerning which he would not be required to answor questions, 
namely: information which might divulge the identities of FBI 
sources; information relating to sensitive methods and techniques; 
information which might adversely affect on-going FBI investigations 
and information which originated with other agencies, including 
foreign intelligence agencies. Yr. Cotter concluded by saying 
that upon being contacted by the SSC'he would advise this Bureau 
of the date of the anticipated interview and his decision as to 
whether or not he would request that a Bureau Agent be made 
available for consultation. 
NW 38316 Docld:32989617 Page 134 
!!I.,,.__ 
- 2 -
