[ 87C 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
I 
(8) 
... \ 
• -SECTION 87. 
\ 
·• INVESTIGATION OF SUBVERSIVE 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS 
VII. Subject's arrest record and disposition of charges; any 
information indicating a propensity for violence. 
VIII. What is expected to be gained by interview? 
List above items by number but headings need not be restated. 
If no pertinent data is available concerning a particular 
item, so indicate. 
(b) Submit one copy of letter and additional copy of first page 
only which can be returned by FBIHQ stamped 11Approved. 11 
If interview not conducted within 60 days, submit letter advising 
FBIHQ: 
(a) Reason interview not conducted. 
(b) Any new information pertinent to desirability of interview. 
(c) Whether efforts to interview subject will be pursued. There-
after, keep FBIHQ advised at least each 60 days as to progress 
of matter. 
Conduct of interview. 
(a) Inte"rviews of subjects entitled to the warning and waiver 
shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements set 
forth in Volume I, Manual of Instructions, Section 2B, 
page 15. • If the interview is ,being conducted for intelligence 
information rather than an admission or confession of 
guilt, no warning is required. Moreover., if the investigation 
has failed to develop information indicating a possible 
violation of Federal law by the subject, it would be 
permissible to interview the subject without a warning as 
he does not fit the criteria of those entitled to a warning 
of rightso Carefully plan interview so there will be no 
compromise of sources, sensitive techniques or interviewing 
personnel. An overriding consideration to always bear in 
mind is that interview should elicit from, not provide 
information to the subject • 
. (b) Interview at subject's place of employment should be 
avoided if possible. If attorney or aide is present during 
interview, interview must be conducted by two Agents. 
(c). If, during conduct of interview subject desires that his 
attorney or aide be present, the interview should be tact­
fully terminated, and FBIHQ should be informed with recommen­
dation whether or not to resume interview. 
(d) In all other instances, SAC has responsibility and option 
of deciding when two Agents should handle interview. Safety 
of Agents is first priority to consider. 
Direction of subject's activities. 
Prior FBIHQ approval is required before 
the subject's activities even though he 
during the interview. 
Reporting results of interview. 
taking any steps to direct 
may appear to be cooperative 
r 
(a) Record results of interview on FD-302. 
(b) Pertinent results of interview should be included in next 
report or LI-IM unless circumstances indicate need for more 
e:,,.,-pedi tious reporting. In cover letter or administrative 
pages, include observations of interviewing Agents as to 
subject's cooperativeness, any relevant information 
concerning subject's appearance or characteristics, and 
assessment of information developed by interview in light 
of other data known to your office. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1853 12 
) 
.) 
