13-00000 
04/16/97 WED 16:11 FAX 202 724 0457 ARRB 
Mr. J. Barry Harrelson 
April 16, 1997 
Page2 
As we have written in our formal requests and as we have said to you orally, you 
should interpret our requests in the broadest reasonable sense. However, to the extent 
that you believe that a request poses an unreasonable burden that we may not have 
anticipated, or to the extent .that you have suggestions to modify or to amend our 
requests in such a way as to better reach our goals, you should not hesitate to make 
suggestions or seek clarification. However, unless we specifically hear from you to the 
contrary, it is our presumption that CIA will respond fully to the requests as posed. 
In response to your request, the ARRB staff has now identified six of our outstanding 
requests as high priority issues. We would appreciate your forwarding to us as much 
responsive material as you are reasonably able to ~le during the upcoming two 
·weeks with regard to these six issues. We wish to obtain a reasonably complete 
response to these requests within one month. These six issues ·are identified in the text 
by double asterisks (-.). 2 
The.remainder of this letter is divided. into two parts involving first, the formal requests 
for information and records, and second, the informal requests for information and 
records. Please let me know if your understaricling of any of the following points 
differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.3 
I. Formal Requests. 
CIA-1 Organizational Material. 
CIA has collected information responsive to this request for Review Board 
action. The ARRB staff has identified records that it believes will ~ance the 
will not be fruitful. 
2As identified more fully below, the six issues are: CIA-7 (Histories); CIA-16 
(Oswald Pre-assassination files); personnel assigned to a designated post; 
QKENCHANT; the electronic take from the Mexico City Station; and files on George 
Stanley Brown. 
3This memorialization follows-up, in large part, on your conversations of March 
19 and 20, 1997 with Michelle Combs and on the 00 and DS&T briefings to the ARRB 
staff on April 1, 1997. 
la)ooJ 
