P" .. r 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALI!Sl:. -- th.J,·'~;; i: . ·-
~ : ~JHf 1•v·1· i1.:! r r iTE !.'u·•,,~~ . 
I, LJ..J: !)_;·ti("~ 
G. SNIE 85-3-62 
26. The lack of urgericy expressed in these decisions was 
also reflected in the deliberations over and the content of 
·sNIE 85-3-62, The Military Build-up in Cuba, passed by USIB 
on 19 September. This estimate, which was generated by the 
issuance of NSAM 181, must be viewed as a symptom of the state 
of mind in the Intelligence Community and in Washington gen­
erally during.the first half of September. There were no dis­
sents arid no major disagreements in preparation of the final 
draft. Its key findings a~e as follows: 
a. "We believe that the USSR values its position in 
Cuba primarily for the political advantages to be derived from 
it and consequ~ntly that the main purpose of the milita~y build­
up in Cuba is to strengthen the Communist regime there against 
what the Cubans and the Soviets conceive to be a danger that 
the US.may attempt by one means or another to overthrow it. 
The Soviets evidently hope_ to deter any such attempt by enhanc­
ing Castro's defensive capabilities and by threatening Soviet 
military retaliation. At the same time, they evidently recog­
nize that the development of an offensive military base in 
Cuba might provoke US military intervention and thus defeat 
• their present purpose." • 
b. "The Sovie.ts themselves are probably still-uncer­
tain about .their future military program for Cuba. - Indeed 
they probably intend to test US and Latin American reactions 
as they go along." 
c. "As the build-up continues, the USSR may be tempted 
to es~ablish in Cuba other weapons represented to be defensive 
in purpose but of a more 'offensive' character: e.g., light bomb­
ers, submarines, and additional types of short-range surface-to­
surface missiles .... " 
~ ·d. "However, they are well aware that the question of i,· 
offensive as opposed to defensive weapons in Cuba has become a 
major political issue." 
e. "The establishment on Cuban soil of Soviet nuclear 
~triking forces which would be used agiinst the US would be in­
compatible with Soviet policy as we presently estimate it. It 
would indicate a far greater willingness to increase the level 
of risk in US-Soviet relations than the USSR has displayed.thus 
far ... However, Soviet military planners have almost certainly 
considered the contribution which Cuban bases might make to the 
-14- , 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
., 
