.. 
SECRET Betsy palmer 
Review of Manuel Ray~ Rivero Files, Volumes I - XVIII 
April 24, 1975 
Vol~e IX .: January 1963 - Jul;r._~]. 
1. Cable to Director from Caracas, dated Feb. 22, 1963 
FRANCISCO SUAREZ QUINONES wishes travel to Maimi to attend J1JRE rally 
24 February. In view Ref B (WAVE 2462) info that Suarez communist and also/ 
MRP member, DCM has asked if any info that Suarez was undercover agent for 
MRP or if he may be double agent working for Castro. 
2. -Confidential Controlled Dissem. dated 3 June 1963 
Title: Plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the 
Central Intelligence .~ency 
On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros reported on meeting of JURE exec. board 
in.his home attended by, among others, Antonio Arias. During meeting, 
. :..Cisneros said it was mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a 
trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with regard 
to CUba and if possible infiltrate this man into Cuba. Cisneros also said 
JURE planning leaflet drop into CUba which will include such matters as Ray's 
Manifesto against the U.S. Government and against the CIA. 
3. Cable to Director from Paris., dated 19 June 1963 4T727Z 
Ray in Paris - contaceed by Jervay. Day driven to airport oy Alberto 
Baez with whom Ray spent much time and who seems to be closest to Ray 
among his. contacts in,)?a,.ris.. Ray in Paris and Brussels for purpose of 
•~±ng 'Franqui-·and<\).rcc,s·~,to •agents,--in place; or defection. Also Cabrera. 
Ray conVinced 'C~ubaris n.~;,"'l disillusioned with Castro. Asks for update of 
list of personnel and addr:_~z..s of all Cuban em_ bassies. in Europe to be 
passed to him in San l:Juan·' . LIDfmMB~ -,~,-:i;i :~a.:-is. Wants to be trained in 
short wave system between himself a.na'.'1n_]m.JMBLE0 6 and station felt these 
were good ideas and could be done. 
4. Memo for the Record from Alfonso Rodreguez, dated 19 June 1963 
Subject: Manolo Ray 
Ray's attitude towards CIA - feels that the Agency has in the past purposely 
and actively attempted to destroy him as a political lead.er and has proof 
of at least one CIA officer plotted with certain MRP officials to remove him 
from the Mrp as a condition for CIA assistance to that organization. 
Ray cannot be overlooked in the struggle for CUban freedom. "-- of all the 
CUbans I have met, he is the most purpose:f'ul, methodical, as well as the most 
experienced clandestine 9perator .. " 
5. Conf'identiaJ. Controlled Dissem. dated 27 June 1963 
Re: Creation of an Intelligence Corps within the JURE 
teliable information from former Rebel Army member (F) active in clandestine 
movements. JURE meeting ¢about 30 March 1963 at home of journalist 
Antonio .Arias said JURE national executive board had created an Intelligence 
Corps with JURE whose function was to in.filtrate JURE members into various 
SECRET 
~ 
... 
