[ 
107M - N SECTION 10·• SECURITY INFORM.f..NTS .AND CONFI-,TIAL SOURCES 
document in the pertinent informant file and is not to be serialized. 
If a particular section of this form is not applicable, such should be 
noted thereon. If it later becomes applicable, the serial number can be ·1 
noted at that time. 
12. Bulky material submitted by informant 
Where informant or source submits bulky material other than a statement 
and same pertains i;o a specific investigative mat·ter, bulky' material may 
be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of executed 
form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing a.11 a-pplicable items 
set forth on form FD-306. In such a case, the original form F'D-306 or 
channelizipg memorandum should be filed in the subfile of the informant 
or source and the file and serial number where the bulky material is 
located should be noted thereon. 
N, PAYMENTS TO INFORMANTS .AND HANDLING MONEY RECEIVED 
1. 
2. 
3, 
No gifts to informants 
a. Gifts should not be given to informants since such actions might be 
misco!lstrued. 
b. Relationship between Agents and informants shall be maintained on 
a businesslike basis, 
c, [Deleted] 
d. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
represen-l;at:i;ves of companies,. priva_te iIJ.dustries, or i_nsurance companies 
and request assistance· regarding pa.'y'ments of money, gifts, or products 
of such companies to informants. 
S.AC authority to pay informants 
a. In specific instances in which it is necessary and expedient to 
·expend money to obtain information concerning matters or persons 
unde:" in-vestigation, which is not otherwise obtainable> or to advance 
expense money to enable an individual to obtain such inform·ation, 
SAC may appro-ve payments of amounts up to $200 and totaling not more 
than $200 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of the number of payments, 
This applies only to individuals who have never been regularly paid 
, for services or expenses on Bureau authorization, In other words, 
once an individual has been paid on Bureau au·l;horization, regardless 
of the amount, this authority of the SAC may not be utilized. 
b. Individual who is paid on SAC authority should not be described in 
correspondence as an informant or source who is being paid on a 
"regular basis" or on "Bureau authorization. 11 
c, The blue slip reclaiming any of these payments authorized by the SAC 
must clearly and acourate.ly explain the circumstances and summarize the 
information obtained so the Bureau will be in a position to pas-s 
intelligently such blue slips for payment-; • 
d. Prfor Bureau authori·ty must be obtained to make any additional payment 
to an individual who has received payments totaling $200, 
Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authoriza­
tion. 
b, In requesting this authorization, a justification must be set forth 
containing the following items and using the subheadings· shown, 
(In espionage and foreign nationality matters,·use subheadings 
where app],i cable. ) . -· 
(1) Recommendation - - • • 
(Use following wording as nelrly as pos~ible~ 
11I recommend that authority be granted to 
continue (increase, deer.ease) payments to the 
above informant up to $ (amount) per (month, week)· 
f~r services, plus up ~ __ (amount) per __ (month,,week) 
for expenses actually incurred for a period of months, 
effective __ (date).") ---
18 
7-,15-63 
1
1 NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1559 
