NW 3 
, Page 492 
Presentation to a Federal Grand Jury, Washington, D. C., 
commenced 3/10/67 but the grand jury is available to hear this case 
only on Fridayso Additional wi1nesses are appearing 3/17/67 and it 
is anticipated further testimony will be given the grand jury 3/24/67 
and possibly 3/31/67. 
Brandon Alvey, the trial attorney handling this case, has 
described the Bureau's investigation as outstanding and said he has 
never before seen so much good information gathered in such a short 
time. Alvey states that if there was a statute making it a violation to 
born~ diplomatic establishments in the United States, the evidence now 
available would support a conspiracy convictiono There is no such 
statute; however, the statute the Department considers most applic~ble 
(Section 956, Title ·18) makes it a violation to conspire in the United States 
to damage property owned by a foreign government in a foreign country. 
To successfully prosecute under Section 956, it must be · 
proven that the conspiracy originated in the United Stateso No violation 
would exist if the conspiracy originated in Canada even if subsequent 
discussions and other overt acts occurred in the United States. It is 
unlikely that this point can be established unless a confession is obtained 
from one of the conspirators. Alvey is making every _effort to develop 
the necessary evidence on this point in examining witnesses before the 
grand jury and has laid the groundwork for possibly forcing testimony 
from one or more prime suspects by:offering immunity coupled with 
a threat of contempt proceedings if testimony is withheld. 
Trial attorney Alvey l].as indicated the grand jury is 
enthusiastic but he does not expect to obtain a true bill unless additional 
evidence is developed to prove the conspiracy to bomb the Canadian 
establishments originated in the United Stateso We are vigorously 
pursull1g all logical possibilities to develop such information by 
continuing investigation. • ~ 
-
?1 
.. 
: .• ,.,· 
-·• '• . ', 
-· 
~ ~: .i·Jp~ 
