/ 
07D18-l 
DETAILS 
1. On 20 September 1969, Mr. GERALD T. CARTA, Staff Operations Officer, U.S. 
Embassy, Saigon, Republic of Vietnam (RVN), was interviewed with the assistance of 
SA RONALD A. CUNDIFF and provided the following information: 
During early January 1969, a Mr. MITCHELL "WERBELL, a senior officer in an 
American firm (NFI), came to his office requesting assistance in shipping one or 
two cartons of captured automatic weapons to Bangkok, Thailand. WERBELL stated 
that he was a weapons expert and was in the RVN on invitation from the U.S. Govern­
ment to demonstrate some of his new weapon accessory inventions to the military 
services of the RVN and Thailand. WERBELL indicated that he had just spent the 
last 2-4 weeks in various northern sectors of the RVN, with U.S. Army Airborne and 
Special Forces units. During this period WERBELL had collected various captured 
enemy automatic weapons. He advised that he needed these weapons for examination, 
in that he was in the process of designing a new automatic weapon that would far 
surpass the capabilities of the best foreign made automatic weapon. WERBELL pro­
duced an Invitational Travel Order, issued by the USAF Air Attache, Bangkok, 
Thailand. This travel order was approved by the Counselor for Administration (CFA), 
U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand. This travel order authorized WERBELL to travel, 
on a space ava.ilaole basis, from Thailand to~ the RVN and return. The travel order 
did not reflect a funding citation, which is necessary to ship any large items 
aboard a military aircraft. WERBELL stated that he had attempted to ship these 
weapons aboard military aircraft stationed at Tan Son Nhut AB (TSNAB), RVNY how­
ever, because his orders did not reflect the necessary funding citation, he was 
sent to the U.S. Embassy. WERBELL indicated he was going to use these captured 
weapons in a fire power demonstration, to be held for the King of Thailand on his 
birthday, which was on the following Saturdayo WERBELL stated he was a personal 
friend of the King and Queen of Thailand and numbered among his friends many high 
ranking military and civilian officials of the Thai government. CARTA placed a 
long distance call to the CFA, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand. The CFA advised 
that WERBELL was expected in Thailand by the King for a weapon demonstration, to 
be held on the King's birthday. The CFA was informed that WERBELL wanted to ship 
one. ·or two heavy cartons to Thailand. The CFA then gave CARTA the Bangkok U.S. 
Embassy funding citation, with instructions to have same added to WERBELL1 s • 
travel orders. He then asked the CFA: "Do you know what he wants to ship?" and 
the CFA replied: "Yes, it's okay". After this conversation the weapons were 
packed, along with some items of official equipment, as identified by WERBELL. 
Transportation Control and Movement Documents were executed and signed by CARTA. 
The U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand, funding citation was reflected on these 
documents. At no time did CARTA examine the contents of the boxes. CARTA iden­
tified the Transportation Control and Movement Documents reflected as attachments 
1 and J, ROI, D07, 2 Sep 69, as the ones executed and signed by him. CARTA could 
provide no explanation as to why one of the Transportation Control and Movement 
Documents (Atch 1) reflected the contents as antique arms. CARTA stated that he 
knew of no other shipments of firearms that had been processed by WERBELL. He 
concluded that he does not know SUBJECT, nor has he ever processed any shipments 
under SUBJECT's name or for SIONICS, INC. 
2 1439 
• Reviewed By AFOSI 
• For Public Disclosure 
: In Accordance W~~\ '(l • 
JFKARCA, l 992u,!JYI'.::;\ 
, 14 AUG 95 
NW 38613 Docld:345.30443 17 
I 
·! I 
I 
