( 
( 
) ' ' 
a. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
Sl!:GTION' 107. IUFORI-11\'..::TS XHD C01'TJ!'ll)Eci~ ·;1 SOURCES 
- . . 
In stl'uct e?.ch 
semination of 
abov-e., 
interested. Bureau office 1:hich has ma(lc fur·l;her cl:l. s­
such information to follow ·l;he ins~,;ru.o·l;:1.ons set forth 
107S 
1,1 so set up a control .f5.le regaraing this corrective action, and upon 
completion of same submit to the Bureau a final letter tmdc:r_ the :l.n­
formant I s caption :i.den·t.ifying· each case by ·title, oharaoter, Bureau file, 
where known, anct d?.te • of oommunioation. 
This letter will be usca to check all pertinent Bureau filea to aee 
that necessary correc·l;ive action has been taken in each inst.anoe~ 
If nececilary, other field offices which ~ave rec€dved info:cma·l;ion from 
the i:a:f.ormant should also be rcquos·l;ecl to submit summa:cy let"cere show­
ing what corrections have been made~ 
I·I; is i1operati ve tha·t all inform.ation from the informan•:; be oo:r.:..~eo·hly 
labeletl ancl great care mu.st be taken to see tha·t this in done. 
Occasionally~ an ex-informant JGhrough his speech, writings, or acd;ions 
ra.i se s a doub·I; as ·i;o his reliability subsequent to the time he vrn.s an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of· 
the information at·tributed to that individual in the absence of ~­
definite indication that ·i;he informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bur~au whilf:: he was an inform?.nt. 
Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
anci. known unreliability should be ma.de in accordance with pa.rt II, 
section 5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
T. CLASSIFICATION - 134 
U. CON}'IDENTiltL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. .Assignment of symbols 
a. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved. , 
b. .Advise Bureau by letter giYing name, address, busincsn a-ff:i.liation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a. brief 
statement concerning type of information furnished. 
o. The a.bbrev.iation 11GS 11 may be used in intra-Bureau oommuni_oations 
for confide11tial source. Cormnunica·!;ions relating ·to espionage and 
foreign nationali ·ty ma·tters should in addition ha:ve a character 
indicating ·the country involved; e.g., IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a oonfiden·tial source, 
·'the abbre-;ia.tion 11GS 11 is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
GS NY-000-S. 
e. Symbol numbers assigned to oonfid.ential sources are to be taken from 
the series of symbol numbers used for your security and criminal 
informants. 
• 3. Index 
4. 
a. 
o • . 
Ind~x cards [on f_orm FD-348] like ·chose prepared for informants must 
be made up and filed as an adjunc·t to the criminal info:r.•ma.nt indo:x: 
or the. security informant index," depending. on the type of informa·tion 
furnished. 
The symbol :, ndex is handled similarly to the symbol index on inform­
ants. 
Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
criminal informant i,ndex and the security in r:.n"Illant index if the 
source furnishes information of value in both types of investiga­
tions. 
Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to an individual who 
has potential as. a. securi·l;y confidential source, a l :-~ cla.ssi':t'ioation 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending sta~us until efforts­
to develop the individual are discontinued. The same procedure should 
be followed ocn~erning racial confid.ential sources, the classification 
being 137. Files may be opened on confidential sources i~ criminal 
matters in a manner identical with that for handling criminal informant 
files in the discretion of the SAG. 
27 
5-18-62 NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
u 
