13-00000 
-
··- ••.•.·---. 
. • 
minutes to the Senate. I would like to dir'ect your attention to that period 
of time when Oswald was a defector, beginning when he left the United States 
and when he returned. 
Mr. HooVEB. Yes, sir. 
Senator CooPER. During that period, did the FBI have any jurisdiction over 
intelligence regarding him, or any capacity to know? 
Mr. HOOVER. While he was In Russia? 
Senator CooPER. Yes. 
Mr. HooVEJL No; we did not. We wer'e Interested in knowing what he might 
say in Russia that appeared in the press.- That was our first intimation that 
this man had defec~, when we read It in a newspaper article. We were, of 
course, interested In knowing when he would return or if he • would return. 
We had no jurisdiction as to what he was doing in Russia after he had gon'e 
there. 
Senator COOPER. As I understand it, you had no capacity at that time to 
follow his activities? 
Mr. HOOVER. That ls true. We have no agents In Russia. Foreign intelli­
gence is handled by the • Central Intelligence Agency, and our responsibility ls 
domestic. ·we work very closely together. 
Senator CooPER. Have you had the jurisdiction since the assassination or 
th'e occasion to examine persons connected with, the State Department concern~ 
ing the activities of Oswald in Russia? 
Mr. HOOVER. Well--
Senator CooPEB. Would that be a matter for some other agency? 
Mr. HOOVER. That could be a matter for CIA or for us after Oswald had re­
turned here. 
Senator CooPEB. Yes. 
Mr. HOOVER. Then he becomes a civilian in the country here. Now, there is 
what we call a delimitation agreement among the Government intelligence 
agencies. For instance, the military branches of the Gove~ent have their 
own intelllg'ence services and they handle all military deviations in regard 
to espionage or things of that kind. If they want our assistance and ask for 
It we, of course, will always cooperate .. In regard to CIA, there are many cases 
which CIA and the FBI work jointly on, of individuals that may have been 
recruited over in Europe by the CIA, not by us, because we don't have authority 
to do that abroad, but when that man comes to this country, the best ends of 
intelligence are served l>Y having the two agencies work very closely together, 
conduct joint interview.a, and exchange information very, very freely. That 
has been going on ever since I can recall CIA being existence. 
Mr. DULLES. I would like to testify to the fact that that cooperation existed 
during _the whole period I was Director, and I am sure It has continued now 
with great cooperation on both sides. 
Mr. HOOVER. It is a very necessary thing, b'ecause the intelligence agency of 
many of these foreign countries will cover the whole world and the country 
itself. Whereas in this country you have separate agencies covering espionage 
activities. CIA covers the foreign activity, and the FBI the domestic activities, 
and they must be interlocking. An espionage agent of the Soviet Government 
can arrive in New York today by plane from Paris and he can be in Mexico 
City tomorrow. Then, CIA would pick him up there. We would not pick him ~ 
up there. We would watch him while in this country, but as soon as he takes !_ 
that plane and leaves the United States CIA moves in On him. If he comes t 
back to the U:nlted States, we move.in on him. Therefore, we have a very.close 1· 
liaison. . 
'· 
As a matter of fact, what• we have done in government agencies is. to have 
a liaison agent In· our Bureau assigned to contact CIA, the Pentagon, State 
Department, and various other agencies to cut out the red tape of writing letters f 
back and forth. In order to orally relay Information which has come to his •· 
attention, our representative can immediately phone It over to the FBI, and If i. 
there ls need, for instance, to meet a plane coming in to New York or a boat that • 
ls docking at New York, it ls all accomplished within a matter of 4o minutes or 
an hour. 
109 
