NK 157-2011 
3 
,,. 
DRAGER obtained bail money for them and upon their 
release from jail they tried to obtain the camper truck back 
but were advised by the local authorities it was going to be 
used as evfdence in their pending ca~e. • 
I!la·smuch as they had ·no traasportation, they then 
hitchhiked tram Springfield, Ill., to York, Pa., where they 
visited with AL LENTZ. They then proceeded to Trenton, N.J., 
and obtained a rental car which they did not return. CARROLL 
indicated they then left the Trenton area and went to Boston, 
Mass., in efforts to get him. a driver's license. While in 
Boston they tried to cash several more Captain Courageous 
checks but were not successful, inasmuch as everybody 
required photographic identification. 
After having left Boston, Mass., they travelled to 
Washington, D.C., and visited a SKYLER FERRIS (phonetic}. They 
tried tq obtain maps of the sewer system of Washington, D.c., 
from him. FERRI!:i was advised of their plans to bomb the 
Internal Revenue'service (iRs) and at first FERRIS was not 
agreeable. FERRIS was then guaranteed that the local authorities 
would be advised of the bomb a half hour prior to its detonation 
on July 4, 1974. FERRIS was agreeable to this plan and 
supplied them with the diagram of the sewer system. FERRIS 
is further known to be a right wing patriot and supplied 
names of local ~atriots to DRAGER. 
After departing Washington, D.C., they travelled 
to Florida and visited with an ORVlLLE LIPPERT. v.--; .... . ---· .... ; ,,,, ......... . /,,,,· L .. .,,..,- t_.,..,~ ,_ -· 
They then proceeded to Alabama where they registe~ed 
the vehicle they stole in Trenton, N.J. They then travelled 
back to York, Pa., and saw AL LENTZ again. They.visited 
several days with LENTZ and then returned to Trenton, N.J., 
where they looked up a JAMES KEITH, who is known to be a 
close friend of JAMES BRODERICK. They requested him to f1nd· 
them an apartment which they could rent for several weeks 
prior to their planned July 4 attempt to bomb the IRS, 
Washington, D.C. 
KEITH, DRAGER, and~ were going to the Florence 
Motel in Florence, N.J., to move into a room they had rented. 
DRl~GER was dropped off at q,11 Acme Market to buy groceries 
inasmuch as there was not -room in the vehicle for the three 
of them and groceries. They were heading toward the motel 
to deposit their equipment and clothes when they were arrested 
88 
NW-882"96~Dcoclrl: 329:895:L;l_ eag 
