13-00000 
government, we were ab_le to release the information. The unredacted memorandum 
shows that the Swiss Federal Police had been enlisted by the FBI to try to locate Oswald 
and to determine whether or not he had enrolled at a school in Switzerland. Now the., 
public is able to see the document in full and judge its importance. In its redacted state, 
the document could have meant anything that a researcher's imagination and 
speculation could invent In its released form, it must be analyzed for what it says. 
IV. '9entification and Location of Additional Assassination Records • 
One of the most important, most difficult, and most time-consuming responsibilities of 
the Review Board is t<;> identify and locate additional records-that are relevant to the 
assassinati~n. This is a task tha~·to some degree must logically come•later in the 
process, after the Review Board has gained a full understanding of the records that have 
already been identified. Although the Review Board has made a significant number of 
requests for additional records and information, some of which I would like to outline, 
much remains to be4one beforeitcanbe-eonfidentthat.ithascompieted..this,.·u,t::-~~ •. ;,;~_ -~:-''·"·': · ·.•. • · 
responsibility. r,0·····;:,,~:r,r-:fr·,1 h·\ 1 • • • • • • • 
I would like to highlight some of our efforts to identify and locate additional 
assassination records. Some examples: 
... 
... 
... 
Medical Records Inquiry. The Review Board has several ongoing efforts to 
identify and locate assassination records involving medical issues. As with any 
homicide, the medical records are among the most important pieces of evidence. 
As part of its attempt to ensure that the medical records are as complete as 
possible, the Review Board.~taff has deposed the principal pathologists involved 
in President Kennedy's autopsy, as well as other individuals who had 
knowledge of the autopsy and related photographic records. 
Identification and LocationJof Additional FBI Records and Information.· The 
Review Board has continued its efforts to locate additional FBI assassination 
records by making several requests for records and information. The FBI has 
assisted in this effort by giving the Review Board members access to requested 
files. The JFK Task Force at the FBI has, on the whole, been extremely 
coope,rative and helpful to the Board and has provided the requested 
information. 
Identification and Location of Additional CIA Records and Information. The 
Review Board has initiated a number of requests to the CIA for additional 
information and records.·. The Review Board expects that these requests will be· 
promptly and fully satisfied during the upcoming ye~. 
4 
