13-00000 
,.Alienation and the Systems Analyst -~--
Alan E. Brill 
Supervising Systems Analyst 
The Chase Manhattan Bank N.A. 
New York, N. )'". 10005 
-Systems analysts . . . must be seen as full-fledged members of the firm." 
A Wall of Managerial Attitudes 
In most large organizations, the systems and data 
"processing departments are separated from the rest 
of the firm by a wall of managerial attitudes. While 
employees in most jobs are encouraged to gain a wide 
variety of experience in various departments as ~hey 
rise through various management levels, it is rare 
that a systems analyst or a programmer is given an 
equal opportunity. The general attitude is "He's a 
computer man, not a manager (or a businessman, or a 
banker). He wouldn't fit in. Besides, he's doing a 
good job where he is." 
As a result, the analyst has exactly no motiva­
tion to think of himself as an insurance man or a 
businessman, or a banker, or an accountant. He is 
made to feel like a consultant. He can serve the 
organization, but he isn't free to move within it. 
To make matters worse, some firms rotate the people 
in their management development programs through a 
stint in the systems department. It is little won­
der that there is a high turnover in systems ana­
lysts, The company does very little to make him 
feel like a member of the family. 
Potential Source of Talent 
But beyond the problems brough~ about by the per­
sonnel turbulence, the firm is ignoring a potential 
source of fine managerial talent. Many analysts 
joining major corporations hold degrees as Master, 
Business Administration. Their educational back­
grounds, when combined with their ability to objec­
tively define problems and see solutions, and the 
detailed working knowledge of the company gained in 
the system design process, should put them in the 
management spotlight. Instead, the system analyst 
finds that he has been given the indelible label of 
"computer person" and that his upward mobility is 
-limited to the systems department. As a result, 
systems analysts leave the firm, and often leave the 
systems profession. 
If companies hope to attract and hold talented 
personnel for their systems activities, they need 
to offer them an equ,al chance to develop to their 
full potential. They must be seen as full-fledged 
members of the firm - not as consultants who are 
here today, but who could move on tomorrow. 
Experience in Systems 
As businesses come more and more to depend upon 
data processing to support their operations, it 
will be desirable for a significant number of man­
agement team members to have experience in systems. 
Yet, by their actions, managements have forced many 
talented people to avoid beg"inning their careers in 
data processing for fear of becoming stereotyped. 
So it would seem that a number of the problems 
that businesses face in their systems activities are 
a result of a regrettable but widespr9ad management 
attitude. 
Only when systems analysts are regarded as having 
a potential for advancement to positions in general 
management, and are given an equal chance to rise in 
the organization, will the systems man lose his- al­
ienation and see himself as a member of the company 
team. 0 • 
