13-00000 
·r 
i , \ . ":.ll,lr -•·i#S? 
i •. /';iffic~lt pl:;se of the operation -- installing the machine on the mountain top.@ 1 
I ( ) {_;;. T~e first thing that had to be done was to gain the. penni ss ion of the 2-
Indian government to implement the scheme, not a larg·e problem in view of the 
CIA's close relations with the Indian intelligence service. The Indians not 
only agreed but, surprisingly, insisted on full participation in the ·project. 
Next, the Agency recruited a group of experien~ed mountain dimbers to carry 
the device, complete wtth its nuclear powerpack, pp the mountain and put it. 
into operation. A well-known American mountaineer who had previously conquered 
Mt. Everest, Barry Bishop, was contacted and convinced to lead the climb. 
"2 ,. 
'' ,. 
' <J 
Overall control of the operation, however, was placed in the hands of an experienced 
CIA·case officer. 
That summer, the Agency operator along with the American and Indian 
climbers, and a group of Sherpa porters, were brought together at a secret 
CIA training base in the Rocky Mountains to practice as a team and to learn 
how to assemble the monitoring device once they got it to the top of Nanda Devi. 
Cover for the operation was carefully built by leaking infonnation in international 
mountaineering circles that a joint American-Indian expedition was planning an 
ascent of one of the more difficult Himalayan peaks. During the winter, the 
technicians completed work on the sensor device, and a few months later the 
CIA chief of station in Delhi reported that all logistical and cover arrangements 
with Indian intelligence had been completed. The monitoring device was 
clandestinely flown to a secure staging area in northern India by a transport 
plane from one of the Agency's proprietary airlines. Next, the climbers were 
brought together and taken to the camp in the foothills of the Himalayas from 
where they and the Sherpas would begin their long, difficult ascent of the Nanda 
Devi. 
(~ Things went well at first, but after the expedition passed the snow line, the 
Indians began to_ tire and becane irascible, cl aiming that they were backpacking· £;, 
~-:_;,;.V 
too much weight. The CIA case officer r~distributed the load by convincing the~} 
.,d • ' . ·•• __ IA ,I\ /I_ ,,. 
