13-00000 
Robert M. McNamara, Jr., Esq. 
July 15, 1998 
Page4 
• Designated records from security files of Jack Ruby, Walter Sheridan, Harold 
Weisberg, Richard Case Nagel, and Gordon Novel [CIA-IR-27]. 
• Excerpts from the calendar of former CIA Director Allen Dulles [CIA-IR-31]. 
In addition to the assassination records identified above, the Review Board currently is 
inspecting additional files CIA has made available in response to Review Board 
requests. We may designate additional assassination records from these files. They are: 
intelligence community reports on Cuba/Soviet Union [CIA-9]; files relating to CIA 
officials stationed at }MW A VE [CIA-12]; and files of various high-level CIA officials 
(former Deputy CIA Directors Charles Cabell and Marshall Carter, former Deputy 
Di.rectors for Plans Richard Bissell and Richard Helms, former General Counsel 
La~rence Houston, C. Tracy Barnes, and William Harvey) [aA-IR-34]. Additional 
assassination records may be identified from other requests for additional information. 
2. Mexico City Tapes [CIA-IR,-151 
We also have discussed with CIA the potential processing of recordings maintained by 
CIA and apparently reflecting audio surveillance of certain "Soviet bloc" and Cuban 
facilities in Mexico City for the period November 22, 1963 through early January 1964, 
including possible surveillance of the Cµban consulate in Mexico City. Because CIA has 
not yet listened to the full tapes, it could not yet confirm the targets or substance of this • 
"electronic take." CIA has committed to listening first to the tapes for the period 
November 22-23, 1963 (approximately 18 _tape$), and thereafter will discuss with the 
Review Board potential placement of these and later audio recordings into the JFK 
Collection. CIA said it will complete its review of the November 22-23 tapes in July. 
3. Processing of Duplicate Documents under the TFK Act ,, 
a. The CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection. Although a version of the CIA-HSCA 
Sequestered Collection (both microfilm and hardcopy) were placed in the JFK 
Collection in 1993 and 1994, the CIA has since been forwarding more open versions of 
certain documents in light of Review Board decisions. All such "re-processed" 
documents will be placed in the JFK' Collection by September 1998 except that, to the 
extent that there are other dµpljcate copies of these re-processed documents in the 
Sequestered Collection, such d~plicates will be re-processed and placed into the JFK 
Collection within one year after the Review Board terminates (i.e., by September 1999). 
b. Russ Holmes Collection. The CIA ~tly has not placed the Russ Holmes 
