/ ··• 
• . 
. ·:. ,., 
•••• 
•. 
February a, 1960 
INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAll 
On February 2, 1960,. the House passed H.R. 8121, 
introduced by Mr. Wal te,r, which would authorize the Secretary 
o/ Defense to establish a program for screening employees 
oj private contractors for access to classified information. 
The bill states that procedures prescribed by Defense shall 
be designed to protect from disclosure all information which, 
in the opinion of the Secretary of Defe,nse, would affect the • 
national security, safety, or public· interest or would tend • 
to compromise .investigative sources or investigative methods~. 
The bill has been referred to the Senate Committee on the 
·Judiciary and, if passed, Would permit Defense to reinstitute 
the same program which was in effect at the time of the 
.Supreme Court decision in the Greene Case·. Defense could., 
however, institute a·new program offering a maximum of con­
frontation while protecting sources or techniques in accordance. 
with the terms o/·the bill~ 
On February 5,· 1960, Assistant Attorney General Yeagley 
. forwarded a new draft of the proposed Executive Order in this 
matter and stated it was the res.ult of meetings with.the. Attorney 
General and the- White House and .that he hoped that it would • 
be the final draft. This ~raft introduced four· major changes. 
The first· of these· would permit use of information 
from a so-called "casual 11 informant with out confrontation if the 
i nfor-;nant could • not appear 'due to death,· severe illness, or 
§ome other cause determined bu the head of the department to 
.be good and suf.fici.ent. The underlined words have been added 
and would considerablu broaden the circumstances under which 
information from suchva source might·be use~. 
·) A second change, hciwever, would require that when 
an exception to confrontation was· granted in the case of death 
or severe i-llness, as ·indicated above, the ·identity of the -
source be disclosed to the applicant. This requirement·would 
apply only~ in the case of death or severe illness and would not i 
apply to the new exception discussed in the previous paragraph. 
We have repeatedly told the Department that we must respect the 
