13-00000 
• • SECRET 
SH: I hadn't told him. I must have never told him the 
name. He's got a note to that effect; a footnote on 
that same page where he talks about this operation in 
the book. If you've got the book around I'll show you. 
In terms of assassination plots, first of all they're 
few and far between. In terms of getting involved in 
one of these things. Being in the business we were in, 
with the old .rules and regulations that we had - and we 
didn't have to worry about. a Senate Intelligence 
Committee and a House Intelligence Committee - we did 
lots of things just by feel, by gosh and by golly. As 
Larry Houston told me when the Church committee started 
to expose lots of things, Larry said, "Sam, I told you. 
You should have talked to me about a lot of these 
things. We wouldn't be here today." I said, "Yeah, 
Larry, and you know why we didn't talk to you in those 
days? Because you would have stopped a lot of us from 
doing things." He says, "Very right." That's· the way 
life was, and I'm sure that there are other 
officers .... I'm just one of many who were involved in 
different parts of the world, doing a whole variety of 
things, with almost rio way to pin down somebody saying, 
"I authorized X, Y, or Z." That goes even for State 
intelligence collection, because some of the 
intelligence coll~ction was done by some screwball 
ideas. 
BL: Sam, you've just talked about Bobby Kennedy and CIA and 
Mafia assassination plotting against Castro. Many 
scholars have concluded, though on just circumstantial 
evidence, that Jack Kenriedy was also fully~itting, if 
not involved in assassination plotting against Castro. 
Do you have a view about that? 
SH: Yes, I agree with the people who say the same thing 
because I can't imagine Bobby on his own without 
telling Brother Jack some of the things he's done, and 
including probably Jack being the inspiration for some 
of the things that Bobby finally did. I think they 
were so close together. There's a new book out, it's 
not new anymore this is now 1998, this came out in the 
Fall of 1997 - it's Robert Kennedy: Brother Protector. 
You got it? 
MW: No. 
SH: The author is a fellow by the name of Hilty. 
University of Tennessee Press. It's got some of the 
weirdest stuff in it that you can think of. I only 
read the parts that I know something about, namely 
21 
SECRET 
