C7G 
[ 
[ 
( 
( 
[ 
( 
SECURITY. Ilf\TI:STICii.'t'IOl-T: 
Investigative procedures and sucgestio~s 
This section contain3 detailed investigative guides for 
invest:i.gating and rcpcr·i,:i.ng acti vi ti<rn of the Communist 
USA. 
use in 
Party, 
a•. To accurately an<l. clearly show ·i;he true nature of the Cornmun:i st 
Party, USA, data conce:?:ning the following· topics· must be .fully 
developed and reported. When material contains information that 
would be logically- reported under more than one topic heading 
but to do so would mRke the separate accounts unintelligible, . 
report all the rnater:i.al under the main heading and only refer to 
the infor1,1ation under the other breakdowns. Do 11.o·t repeat same 
data tmdcr separa-1:e hnadings. Reports on the Communist Party, US.a, 
as an organization mu:d; be 3Ubmitted by ea.ch olficc quarterly 
and should cover act:i.-v-i ties for the p1·cceding three-month period. 
All o:tfices 2.re rcq_ui:rerl to use the fo].lowing breakdown in pre­
paring quarterly reports on the Communist Party., USA. Ea.ch 
subfile c;,,_ption must st2,r·i: or, a, sep2.rate page. . , 
.(1) Org:.rnization {Bu.:r·eau. file 100--3-69) • 
{a} Secnrity setup of dis·trict and/or state organization. 
Office coverine di;s·l;rict hea.d·qua.rters., describe the 
location and size of Goinmunist Party office facili·l;ics, 
rent paid.., and name aud number of office employees. 
List address and/or post office box number of party. 
headquarters. 
:(b} Identify principal district officials and important 
functionaries, ·l;oge·ther· wi ·i;h ti·Ues., and furnj sh a 
short resume of importan·!; actiYi ties of each during 
three-month period. • . 
{c) 1Iames of new commissions or special committees,.identity 
and ca.paci ty of individual members thereof. Sub.mi t 
resume of activl~ies of groups under appropriate subfile 
o_aptions. 
(d) Special meetings embracing only orga.nization2.l matters. 
Other pertinent matters discussed at meetinfs conccrninf 
policy or strategy to be submitted unde·r appropriate 
subfile captions. . . • • 
-{ e) Extend this outline as far as necessary for clarity and 
to meet needs of office under this or any succeeding 
subse?tion. .tuxiliary offices submit pertinent data. 
concerning above m2.tters vrhich do not normally come to. 
attention of o~fice covering district headquarters. 
·(2} Membership (Bureau file 190-3-68) · • 
(a) 0.uarterly reports are ·not to contain any membership 
statistics. Cover pages accompanying each qua.rte?'ly 
rep or·!; must contain latest a:vailabl.e statistics rel a ting 
to total number of Communist Pai·ty members in the 
district. .Membership data must start on a separate 
oover page, [which page( s) must be devoted exclusively ·to such 
data_.] Office of ori-gi:;:i, which is. office covering Communist 
Party district headquarters, should submit following figures: 
I. For entire Comrnunist.1?.arty dist~·ict . 
II o For indi vidua.l states covered by Cotr.muni st Pa!ti 
district .. 
IIIo For number of Communist Party members in area covered 
by field office 
Auxiliary office:,s should submit following membership 
figures to the Bureau and office of origin:. 
I. For state or portion of state covered by that 
field office 
II. For number of Commu.nist Party me1:1bers in the area 
covered by that field office 
(The :total number of Communist Pa:-ty membe::-s i:J. the a::-ea 
oovered by field office, eithe::- origin or auxiliary, should 
be broken down as to the total n~mbe"!' of }I1-:groes i::i the ov-,;;-. 
all numerical strength of tb.e Ccm!:lunisi; ·Part.y, USA, in the 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 £01 
.6 
10-14-63 
