13-00000 
l{!,JUUJ 
J:•KJ. .LZ; .LU .1:'-AA ZUZ I Z4 04.> I 
A1(KJj 
·Pagc2 
r-----------------------------------------,,-4"~:.--• .. - ' 
' • -- collection totaled approximately 3.1 million pages and was used extensively by researchers from all over 
the United States. The Review Board was in the news last month when it voted to mak:e public the 
Abraham Zapruder film of the Kennedy assassination . • 
• The President John P. Kennedy As.mssination Records Collection Act of 1992 originally provid~ a 
3-year timetable for the Assassination Records Review Board to complete its work. Unfortunately, 
there were lengthy delays in the appointment of Board members, and as a consequence the Review 
Board was scheduled to cease operations before it even began its work. As a result, in 1994 Congress 
restarted the clock by extending the 1992 law's t.ermination date for 1 year, until September 30, 1996. 
The Review Board subsequently exercised its authority to continue operating for 1 additional year, until 
September 30, 1997. Because the review process proved to be more complex and time-consuming than 
anticipated,, the President included in his fiscal year 1998 budget a request for a 1-year extension of the 
Review Board 's authorization. 
• I support the Assassination Records Review Board 's request for a 1-year extension of its authoriution 
so that it can complete its mission in a professional and thorough manner. I have-always believed VCiy 
strongly that Congress should-not indefinitely continue funding for Federal entities that were clearly 
intended to be temporacy in nature. The Review Board has informed me that it is confident that it will 
be able to finish its work and complete its final report if Congress will extend its life for 1 additional 
year, until September 30, 1998. 
- fflrB SBARCB 
Hgt Hit 
Prey Bit 
Hit; Li■t 
rms ~ 
l"orward 
Back 
Best Sect:lona 
Doc Cont.~t• 
fflIS CR ZSSUB 
B•xt P29Jmost 
Prey Doc;umept 
pa:l.1y bicregt; 
Ext;epa.c;:cmt;ant■ 
GO 'JXJ 
Hew: searc;Ji 
jlqyPage 
bl.R· 
PB ;asues by pate 
