13-oooqo<· >-· .,. 
. _·,,., -. 
.. 
. -3 t ·, 
·J 
. > .. •;,· 
• \ ...• 
SECRET 
EYES (W~LY 
- 3 -
decided that Mr. Bundy would discuss the proposal with higher authority, 
noting the reservations expressed by Hr. Johnson. In the event of 
favorable .reaction by higher authority, Mr. Bundy will talk further to 
Mr. Johnson. 
Hr. McCone said that he would like to see more activity of this 
general nature and asked whether this could be accomplished if larger 
numbers of Cuban personnel were obtained. Hr. FitzGerald replied that 
the problem is not numbers, but the degree of training and competence. 
In this connection, he noted that the Artime group should be ready to 
go in November. 
3:Danterdiction ~rat~ons Alonglloute; •• y1· 
Mr. Colby briefed the Group in detail on the successful inter­
diction of Baute 7 in Laos by a thousand-man force of Meos, in early 
August. He pointed out that the success achieved could be attributed 
to adequate-operational-intelligence, security, size of the group, and 
the suppo~t. ~f the P~rus :J _ 
7
g 
4. fjorth V~etnam Status Report Number 7 
. ~---[ ( 
Mr. Colby touched on the highlights of agent activity in North 
Vietnam during August, and on plans for similar activity during the 
coming monthJ 
S •• • (gperations in Denied Areas of the Far East 9 g" 
Mr. Colby said.that a review has been made of experience with 
agent operations in the denied areas of the Par East, including North : 
; • • Korea, China, Tibet and North Vietnam. He said that as a result of 
this review, serious doubts have arisen as to the results that can be i 
expected from small teams, either in intelligence or in action. He 
said that he proposes to discuss with the DCI in the near future, ·; 
certain changes in the method of operation. in such areas. This might / 
take the form. of concentrating on developing a spirit of resistance 
rather than on a search for resistance elements or on carrying out 
•• minor sabotage. It might also involve much larger groups of people. 
In thisconnection,.he pointed to the success of· the thousand-man 
operation against Baute 7:) 
F: 
l '· r r 
I 
f 
I 
i ' I: 
r. r ,. 
r: 
r 
!. 
t 
I 
/. 
