Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall 
.RE: SENSTUDr 75 
62-116395 
• 
At 2:20 p.m. the interview ended and Phillips was 
taken by Sentinella back into the latter's office where Seidel 
said he was leaving and wanted to say good-bye. Phillips alluded 
to the interview having been completed to which Seidel responded, 
and these are to the best of Phillips' recollection, Seidel's 
exact words, "Yes, you're not le:eting him give us the good 
information." Immediately upon hearing this statement from 
Seidel, Phillips interjected a strong protest by stating to Seidel 
that neither Phillips nor the FBI was keeping Sentinella from giving 
any information; that the FBI has not injected itself in Sentinella's 
decision to give or not give information. Seidel responded with a 
statement to the effect that the result is the same -- Sentinella 
is not giving the good information. Phillips again responded by 
~ 
telling Seidel that irrespective of the latter's ppinion, Phillips 
wanted the record crystal clear that Sentinella has not been 
counseled by Phillips or anyone else in the FBI as to what he 
should·or should not tell Seidel. Sentinella interrupted to 
express his loyaity to the Bureau as well as his respect for 
the conftdentiality of his relationship with the Bureau and its 
work. He told Seidel that he did not intend to be a tal~ative, 
discontented former FBI employee as apparently ~-: are some of 
the sources being consulted by the SSC, Sentinella pointed out 
that he himself had been the subject of disciplinary action by the 
Bureau but that it had made him a better Agent and that it in no 
way wouid influence his loyalty and responsibility to the Bureau. 
Seidel then left. 
After ·Seidel's departure, Sentinella stated it was his 
personal desire to dictate a lengthy question and answer type 
statement of the entire interview while it was fresh in his mind 
as he had not taken any notes. He said he preferred to handle this 
with his QWn secretary whom he trusts implicitly and has pledged 
to maintain this information confidential~ Sentinella advised that 
he would have the typing. of the statement completed the following 
day and would immediately make a copy available to Atlanta SAC 
DeBruler for transmittal to Bureau Headquarters. At Sentinella's 
invitation, Phillips sat in on the dictation of pr~ctic~lly the 
entire statement as a means for Sentinella briefing Phil.lips on 
the details of the interview. Instant memorandum is not intended 
- 3 -
NW 38296 Docld:32989532 24 
