13-00000 
SECRET 
SUBJECT: (U) Identity of Human Sources 
11. (U) These statutes are just a few examples of a 
larger government policy to protect human sources·from 
public disclosure. There has also developed over the years 
. a significant amount of case law-which further implements 
this policy. For example, in Sims y. CIA. 10 s.ct. 1981 
C1985), the Supreme Court held:that pursuant to the National 
Security Act, the DCI had the authority to protect from 
release to Freedom of Information Act requesters the 
identities of individuals conducting res~arch on projects 
financed by CIA. The Supreme Court further stated that the 
DCI's authority to protect sources was broad, and was not 
limited to only those individuals who were guaranteed 
confidentiality. 
12. (U) Most.recently, President Clinton signed an 
Executive Order on classified national security information 
which came into effect in October 1995. Although it 
requires that agencies make greater declassification efforts 
than the prior Executive Order, Executive Order 12958 
affords human sources extra protection from its 
declassification provisions. Under E.O. 12958, information 
.that is over 25 years old and has historical value must be 
declassified within·five years. However, information 
revealing the identity of a·human source may continue to be 
protected. • 
13. (U) • • The above federal statutes and case law show 
a long-standing practice of protecting human sources who 
provide intelligence·information to the U.S. Government. In 
carrying out its statutory obligations, the Review Board 
should give serious weight to this policy and afford the 
protection of human sources the highest priority. 
III. Operational Considerations 
14. (U) As the Review Board is well aware, in order 
for CIA officers to effectively collect intelligence around 
the world, they cannot acknowledge publicly that they work 
for CIA and, conversely, CIA cannot acknowledge a particular 
·_ individual's affiliation with it. _This is true -even more so 
with sources. In addition to the risk to a source's 
personal safety, discovery of a CIA source would_also reveal 
any operations he was conducting and CIA case officers with 
whom he was meeting or might even cast suspicion on the 
1 
(U) The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 u.s.c. §552is another 
example of a federal statute that allows for the protection of human 
sources. Although the FOIA generally mandates release of government 
documents, exemption b(3) allows for withholding'from release 
information that is exempted from disclosure by statute. The National 
Security Act has been held by the Supreme Court to be such a withholding 
statute. Sims v, CIA, 105 s.ct. a981 (1985). 
,.· 
5 
SECRET 
