• • 
returned Jaffee's call I listened to him for about five 
to ten minutes repeatedly telling me how the FBI or CIA 
or some individual had furnished information to ABC-TV 
which cost him his ij.ob. Jaffee would not listen to me 
as I tried to explain that he had to be mistaken. I then 
got sick of listening to him and hung up on him. 
Wallach was told that this was typical of Jaffee 
who often thought that there was something personal involved 
when he failed to get an assignment or a news item, which he 
covered,was not shown on the evening news program. Wallach 
was told that Jaffee was an intelligent and personable guy 
with a burning ambition, who wanted to become a Walter 
Cronkite or a Marvin Kalb overnight. Wallach was told that 
I did not believe that Jaffee completed college and he was 
probably not otherwise qualified for some of these positions, 
which he would like to have had immediately. I then told 
Wallach that in my opinion Jaffee had the same problem at 
ABC that he had at CBS and at both places he was probably: 
overly aggressive and not amenable to direction. 
Wallach was also told that Willis and I found 
Jaffee to be an interesting guy who we enjoyed talking to 
but that he positively would not accept adviGe or direction. 
Wallach wanted to know if I was acquainted with 
Special Agents Reeves, Winton or Graves and I gave a negative 
reply. It should be noted that Wallach had a first name for. 
each of these individuals but I do not recall these names. 
He then wanted to know if I knew Bg_t,Turner. I did know 
B~rt Turner as a Supervisor in WFO~~d possibly at the Bureau. 
Wallach wanted to know if I would be surprised 
to learn that Jaffee had been interviewed by Bureau Agents 
for four days upon his ret~rn from Hong Kong. I said that 
I would be surprised. 
He also wanted to know if I would be surprised 
to learn that the FBI or CIA had furnished information to 
ABC-TV which cost Jaffee his job. I said that I would be 
most surprised and that I did not believe there was any 
possibility that this could happen. I told Wallach that 
in my opinion Jaffee was perfectly capable of losing his 
job on his own. 
- 4 -
NW 31B26 Docld:32989653 169 
