13-00000 
·• . • . . 
1· .---····· 
:-------:-----
1 • 
the Ethiopian press that the trade union organization received 
support from the U.S. Government, make any disclosure of CIA 
interest in the labor organization potentially dangerous ~o 
our former assets. Neither of the former assets was arrested 
because of his CIA connections, and neither of the two assets 
nor the labor organization have been accused of CIA involvement. 
An admission now of CIA support to Ethiopian labor or to·the-
two Ethiopian labor leaders in jail could be a sentence of 
death for them. • 
5. In the case of South Africa, CIA support to a leading 
South African politicar figure to encourage the creation of a 
new political party remains a very sensitive matter. The 
principal a.gent is still a leading and respected spokesman 
for the opposition party.in South Africa and is a leading member 
of the South ~frican parliament. Exposure of the operation 
could lead to his identification which would be extremely_ 
damaging to him, to the opposition party and to our govern­
ment's relations in South Africa. For these reasons, we believe 
it would be desirable for the DCI to limit discus~ion of this 
operation to the Chairman ·arid Vice-Chairman of the Select. 
Committee only. • 
6. Th-e European philanthropic organization which was used· 
to fund the development of a multiracial trade union organiza­
tion in.South Africa was the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung (FES), 
located in Germany. The South African labor officials and 
organizations which received funds from FES were not aware 
that the actual origin of the funds was the United States 
Government and presumably do not now know of U.S. Government 
or CIA involvement. Aside from exposing a U.S. Government 
involvement where none is known to have existed, FES was used 
to support a number of other covert action operations in Africa 
and elsewhe.re and exposure of the foundation would have 
ramifications other than in South Africa. The Director should 
be briefed on FES and its range of activities on behalf of CIA 
if ne has not already been informed. 
Attachments: 
As Stated Above· 
~~rathern 
Deputy Chief, Africa Division 
2 
SECRET/ SEHSjJIVE 
