13-00000 
·VI. WHAT SUPPORT FOR COLLECTION FACILITIES-WAS REQUIRED 
FROM OTIIER AGENCIES? HOW WAS IT SECURED FROM THEM? WAS IT TIMELY . 
AND EFFECTIVE? WHAT, IF ANYTHING, WAS LACKING? • 
The· conduct of intelligence collection operations often 
has depended on timely and effective support from other U.S. govern­
ment agencies. Several government agencies provided supp_ort to 
intelligence operations directed against the Cuban target on both a 
regular and a standby basis. In fact, each and every request for 
policy approved support was grant~d and carried out rapidly and 
effectively .. For example, the Department of State has expedited the 
issuance of visns on selected cases at our request as well as granting· 
visa waivers to individuals of operational interest to the Agency. 
In addition, Foreign Service personnel interview, debrief, and attempt 
'to establish the bona-fides of potential intelligence assets who 
voluntarily contact a U.S. Embassy or Consulate. This is often done 
alone and some times in collaboration with an agency officer prior 
to introducing the agency officer for further development and ex­
ploitation as the case may require. These types of support are 
provided regul,arly by the Department of State and contribute consid­
erably to the effectiveness of many complex intelligence operations. 
Another U.S. government agency which has given invaluable 
support to the Agency's intellig~nce collection operations is .the FBI. 
The FBI has provided biographic data, investigative reports, and 
operational leads to individuals of known or potential operational'· 
interest. This support has been maintained .on a regular and continuing 
basis.· Close liaison relations betw~en the FBI and this agency are 
maintained at Headquarters and at various Field Stations. This close 
liaison has resulted-in a better understanding of the needs and 
requiremen.ts of each Agency in the successful accomplishments _of· 
their separate responsibilities as well as providing a rapid channel 
for providing support and assistance when requested. 
The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service has facil­
itated the entry into the U.S. of persons of operational interest 
to the Agency; and has provided_guidance and support for cases which 
involve unusual alien residence and/or naturalization proceedings. 
Liaison with the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service is 
particularly close and· harmonious at the Miami Field installation. 
where the bulk of the cas~s involving persons of operational interest 
to us originates. 
Reports provided on a regular basis by the National Security 
Agency have been a source of operational leads which have been followed 
I 
- .. -. • •••• I 
