( ' 
.. 
B. 
( 
( 
PART II 6A - B 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
9. In cases involving bombings having an apparent racial or religious basis 
with the resultant public interest, the SAC should iss.ue a statement to 
the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to 
~ctively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them 
every possible, co operative service of the FBI,. including the Bureau's full 
laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by han­
dling out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts 
that may indicate any Federal violation. At no time should this statement 
indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility f·or 
the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance ·of this state­
ment re~uires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
10. Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and. press 
release file if exists . 
FBI LA.W ENFORCEffENT BULLETIN 
This publication is issued the first of each month by the Bureau for the 
benefit of law enforcement agencies. 
1. Contents • • 
a. Foreword by the Director 
b. Interesting case write-ups 
c. Articles which might assist law enforcement officers 
d. Insert containing notices regarding the ten· most wanted fugitives; 
fugitives wanted by the Bureau and the police, including fingerprint 
cla~sifications and physical descriptions; a limited number of· 
missing persons with their photographs 
2. Distribution 
Limited to law enforcement officers and others engaged in or having a 
legitimate interest in law enforcement work 
3. Filing and indexing 
a. In a 66 classification file, bound on the side, and fully indexed. 
Informative ro~tter to be indexed under subject matter. For uni­
formity, the Bureau is to forward by routing slip to all divi­
sions each month ·an indexing list of the basic a.nd pertinent • 
items to be indexed. Index cards are to be prepared by each· 
office. Any additional items not listed but considered to be 
worthy of indexing by a particular office should also be indexed. 
The indexing lists are to be destroyed after the field office· 
inspection by S-OG. • 
b. This file may be destroyed when it is over five years old.· Retain 
index cards. 
c. Current copy should be placed in bookcase, available to•all Agents. 
lb 
1-30-70 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1023 
