) 
j 
.,. 
SECTION i07. IlH'O R11AN TS .AlfD SOURCES 107M 
4. Subfiles 
a. A subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where a 
subfile is necessary only in those instances involving possibl.e 
prosecution, The original of each statement, whether personally 
written by the inf~rmant or furnished orally and reduced to writing 
by contacting Agent, should be filed in this subfile, Executed form 
FD--306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
se~ forth on form FD-306 should be stapled to the original of each 
such statement, 
b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for secure 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any portion 
of statements or notations thereon. 
5, Channelization 
Excerpts from the informant's statement are to be included in the regular 
investigative case report when information of value is submitted, Form 
FD~306 may be used to disseminate this informa~ion to the case file in 
lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired, 'If so used, prepare oopies 
of FD-306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each ·iy 
o~ the informant's st2.tement being channelized, Channelization sL ... ."Ld be 
noted on original FD-306 and on all copies under "Remarks." 
[ [6. Channelizing memoranda - ilestruction of follo,ving submission of reports 
[ in security cases 
[ For instructions concerning the destruction of channelizing memoranda 
[ in security cases follol'ling submission of reports, see volume III, 
{.· s~ction"87D, item 7g, of this manual.) 
7. Dissemination of information • 
Information submitted by informants, potential informants, confidential 
sources, or sources of information should be reported to the Bureau and 
interested offices and other agencies whenever necessary by the appro­
priate means of communication under captions showing the subject matter 
of the information, 
s; Correspondence 
Correspondence submitted in security informant and potential security 
informant matters should be strictly limited to the administrative 
handling of the informant 2.nd should not contain information more prop­
erly furnished to the Bureau under a substantive case caption • 
9. Maintenance of files 
a. All ·pending files on security informants shall be maintained under 
lock and key under the personal supervision of the SAC, ASAC, or field 
superv-isor as the info:r·mant indices a.re maintained and described :i'n 
subsection K'. 
b, Subfiles containing w~itten statements may be maintained in the open 
files section, provided there is no disclosure of the informant's 
identity on the s~atemcnts, 
c. All informRnt files should be maintained in such a manner as to insure 
tlrnt all information furnished by a particular informant will be 
im.rnedia.tely av;,.ilable upon the request of the Bureau, 
d. In addition, these files should be maintained in such a fashion that 
the identities of the cases in vrhich an informa.nt has furnished 
competent evidence ca~ be furnished immediately to the Bureau by 
simply referring to the file of the informBnt and without the necessity 
of conducting extensive research. 
10. Usp of informant by Department - filing correspondence re 
From time to time, the Department expresses an interest in using a partic­
ular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witness. 
As a result, there will be correspondence showing this situation between 
the Bureau and the field, Place copies of all such correspondence in 
the inforn:1nt I s file. Occa sion::i.11 y such corrc spondence may be vol u­
minous and apply to more than one 5nformant, In those cases, summarize 
the information concerni·ng each particular informant and place the summary 
"in the appropriate i~formRnt•s file. 
11. E'orm FD-238 • 
Form FD-238 ( prin tod on pink p:i.p er) has been approved for use in security 
informant and potential security informRnt files, It is to be used in 
the nnture of a table Df contents or as an index to show where in the 
file par~iculnr data can be found. This form is to be kept as the top 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1413 
l. 7 
3-·13-61 
