14-00000 
I•'. 
1 ··"' 
- 8 -
2. General Obaervatior,s 
I beleive AMBANG-1 is planning to r_cturn to Cuba. 
He indicated that he would give the matter serious thought to 
e"·en go in, disguised, a& a legal traveller ii that road were 
generally open, i.e., if rather large nwnbers of travellertl wt-re· 
going in via PAA flights. This line seem'ed a bit out of charactt'r 
for A-1, for it seems unrealistic and somewhat rc-mind!ul of Macaulay's 
references to the state of mind that exiles develop. I also detected 
what we consider to be a somewhat unreaUetic appraisal of the Cub.an 
situation in A-1 's estimate that Castro has coneiderably lees than 
40% of the Cuban people with hir.,. A-1 may be losing more than a 
little touch with Cuban reality. 
A-1 remains convinced that he is on the right track in 
working for the eventual overthrow of Caetro. He is convinced, 
however, that two to three years is all the time left for actually 
destroying the Castro regime, believing that there will be a favorable 
turn in the Cuban economic situation by late 1965. A-1 is likewise 
convinced that Castro cannot add to the improvement of Cuba, to 
the contrary that so long as the principal decisions are made by 
Castro, the general trend will be confusion arising from a failure 
to concentrate on speci.!ic problems until they arc corrr.cted. 
A~ANG-1 is likewise convinced that the JURE ie building 
a political group and general outlook which will have an impact on 
Cuba for many y,!are to come. He i& especially concerned with the 
need to carefully consider each position of hie grotp in order to 
cr~ate the lasting impression tha_t JURE knows w~ere it ie going 
and that its leadership is composed of men who know how to "run" 
a co.wtry without the false starts, conf.ision and chaos identified 
'9o·ith the Castro regime. 
AMBANG-1 is Ukewise greatly concerned with the neceuity 
of not creating an impression i11side Cuba that the JURE will return 
to mete out "Justice, " It ia essential, A-1 states, to convince the 
general populace that the overthrow of Castro will not result in a 
bloodbath, rather that the aole aim h to eave thr. revolution that 
has been betrayed. He i• anxious that the people inside Cuba sec 
i .. 
