3. 
Jim Dr~dcn's ~rrcst On November 22 
Deputy C.L. Lewis was one of the first Dallas police 
officers on the scone at the Texas School Book Depository 
following the assassination. 
;Ji thin just minu tcs after the deadly she.ts Here fired, 
Deputy Lowis confronted a. man across the street from the 
Dool;: Dcposi tory, n man whom Lewis thought Has "acting 
suspiciously." 
Deputy Lewis questioned the man for several minutes before 
taking hin to the Sheriff 1 s office for further interrogation. 
The man identified himself as Jim Braden, and said that he 
was in the oil business in Beverly Iiills, California. Deputy 
Lewis became even more suspicious over the way the man first 
tried to identify himself. Instead of producing his driver's 
license, the common means of identification, the man pulled 
out a gasoline credit card instead. 
The ma.n Hho identified himself as Jim Draden strongly protested 
when Deputy Lewis told him that he would have to take him in 
for further interrogation. 
At the Sheriff's off\cc, Jim Braden agreed to nake a voluntary 
statement. Braden, then 48, told the police that he was in 
Dallas on oil business and had been there for two days. He 
said he Hi:l..S staying ut the Caban;:i Iiotel, s short distance c1wu.y 
from the scene of the assassination. Braden said he had been 
wal1dng doHn the street by the Texas Boal~ Depository at the 
tine of: the assassination and had been loo1(ing for a taxi cab. 
Jin Braden further stated that he was confronted by Deputy 
Lmlis inside a building ucross the street from the Depository 
during an attempt to make a telephone call following the 
shooting. 
Bra.don was shortly thereafter rE:lcased by the DallGs Sheriff's 
0 
office. Braden Has not fingerprinted, nor was any check made 
of possible criminal records relating to him. 
'l'Ho nonths l?tcr, in 1a1ze J2.nuary cf 196'1, J.i.m Dradcn was 
interviewed by two FBI agents at his office in Devcrly Hills. 
The t·l;:i,rrcn Comrr .. ission' s investigation \;as then in full swing 
and uitncsscs to the assassination Here being questioned by 
the PDI and other authorities. In his FDI intervicH, Braden 
gave the same account as he had given to the Dall~s nolice on 
the d2y of the assassination. The FBI's dfficial report on 
Brudcn's interrogation further stated that, "Braden has no 
information concerning the assassination and both Lee Harvey 
Oswald and Jack Ruby are unknown to him." 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 378 
