( 
) 
SEC':" ,u 87. SECt"RI:'Y IliVESTIGATIONf 87D 
·• •• XI., Inf.crr:l suoJecr.s co!l.nected with labor unj om: th-at tne 
:Bureau is net i:-.terested. i,ri: employee-o.nployer reLi.tions 
and is concer:-.(!d only with obtaining information on 
infiltration of labor unions 'by subversive elem1;nts. 
XII. Furnish ·no inior~a.tion and make no statements to~ 
person being inr.erviewed w~·ch. might later be used to 
embarrass the !rn.::--eau. Agent-s should. not allow them.­
selves to l, interviewed by the interviewee or to be 
placed in a position of answ~ring questions instead of 
asking them. • 
XIII. Terminate irrJ!fiediately an interview if the subject provqs 
to be hostile or uncooperative on initial contact. 
XIV. Exploit a ~ubject's knowledge to ~he utmost if he is 
found to be willing to furnish information ·of value., 
XV. Questions asked of a subject b.eing intervicnied sL,...uld 
be so worded as to require an admission or denial of 
al+ pertinent items of subversive information develo.ped 
• during prior investigation unless to do so would expose 
investigative techniques or security informants. 
XVI. A cordial and friendly attitude alone on the. part of 
.a subject should not bt:l cons.trued -as evidence ·of 
copperation insofar as potential dangerousness is con­
cerned when he-fails to-admit or furnish substantially 
the same subversive information verified through previous 
• investigationo 
XVII., Inform the subject that we are interested in interviewing 
him in great detail and arrange to conduct the interviews 
over as extended a period o~ time as necessary to 
develop.the matter fully. Conduct necessary investigation 
·or research to verify or add. to what is being developed 
on interview. Request information from other offices 
or the Burea-:., to assist in the interview if needed. 
:XVIIIo :-= .. :1. .. ce info::.· ::.tion obtained to a signed statement if 
J~bject wil:_~g that this be done. • 
XVIX. D;;ter·mine ;,,.illingness to testify to information fur­
nished in possible future Federal proceedings. 
-· :XX. Consider possibility of developing these·ind.i-viduals as 
informa:its. If possibility is apparent, pursue· m~ tter 
with view to establishing subject as a reliable sourcie 
in the subversive movement with which· he has.--been connected., 
XXI. When no informa:tion is developed during the· course· 
.of an interview which would affect a subject's status, 
submit the results thereof in letter fo:::·m ii!4"llediately 
following the i~terriew.and also in the next report 
submitted in the cas_e. At least one report will be 
submitted in each case ·in which a subject is-interviewed 
with Bureau authority. In the cas~ of:an individual 
employed in or holding a sensiti-.,e position enumerated 
in 87D 6b (7) {e) IV above, the results of all inter-
- view·s must be subnittetl promptly in repo_rt form unt:i,l 
such time as he begins to cooperate as a security 
inform2.nt or a source. 
XXII. Report information regarding the subject's ad.missions of 
his own subve~sive acti~itics and associations and set· 
forth a statenent to the effect that he did or did not 
furnish inf or::1ation regardi.ng· subversi Ye acti -vi ties of 
others• 
XXIIIo Report statements of deni.;,.l re;tardiug subj·.·ct's su.b-;ersivo 
activities dc-relopcd through p:·ior invcst:it·•t1on·a.nd 
follow by a brief sui:-.rnary stat,u1cnt of th<.• past subversive 
activity which !s being denied by the subjuct. 
~l 
s-::-66 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 427 
