.. 
____ .. SECRET Betsy palmer .. 
Manolo Ray 
Volume VII continued 
Quotes Ray as having said, "When I was Minister of Public Works, we, the 
inner circle of the Department, took a course in Marxist economics, and if 
what we were taught is communism, I must say that connnunism is not as 
bad as it is claimed to be." 
n1 e5 A~ 
8. Report on visit with Ray -i~ Puerto Rico during first we~k of u) __ 
June, 1962, submitted by!yinterrowd]through~valt Raymond) [~linterrowdj 
states his general impression of Ray was a good one -- seems of be a moderate, 
intelligent man, a little given to hysteria and slogan-mongering. 3es~ 
quality is in his skill as an organizer 1 
9. Cable to Director from JMWave, dated Aug 15, 1962 DIR Cite WAVE 7062 
Ray had meeting in Miami area 11 or 12 August in which an informant says 
Ray stated that he has arsenals in Venezuela and Cominican Republic, has 
a B-26 plane, territory available for training in Costa Rica and has the 
support through indirect means of U.S. Has invited journalists from New 
York Times and Time Magazine to cover his announcement of the formation 
of JURE. 
10. Cable to Mexico City from Director, dated 6 August 65 says Ray plans 
to travel to Central .America late August or September and needs visitors visa 
for Mexico. Says he has close acquaintance and wants to make personal 
effort to recruit him or talk him into defecting. 
CIA makes inquiries in an effort to obtain visa for Ray. 
11. Cable to Director from San Juan, dated August 20, 1962. Ray believes 
Llanusa will defect but needs financial support, Jose Gelabert 
to make pitch to Llanusa. Later cable says CIA willing to offer Llanusa 
$5,000. • 
12. Cable to Mexico City from Director, 23 August 1962 with directions 
to proceed to procure visa permit but make everJ effort to conceal U.S. 
connection. Ray had agreed in N.Y. meeting to make recruitment or ~efection 
effort towards Cuban .Ambassador in Mexico, 
13. Memo to Chief, Task Force '1! from Alfonso Rodriguez dated 24 Aug 1962 
Subject: Operational Use of Ray Expendiill.re of Funds 
Rodriguez feels beginning collaboration with Ray can be based on three 
specific proposals: 1. creation of an intelligence network inside Cuba 
2. creation of recruitment or defection cap~bility 
to assist our efforts in MEXI, RIO, SAGO, and MONT 
3. 1mmediate effort to recruit in place Carlos LEGIIDGA 
and Raul PRIMELLES. 
Reconnnends paying Ray $84,700 over a six month period to begin this initial 
operation. 
.✓,;1 
r\ 
