•··•· 
..... ,,._ • 
January 15, 1960 
PROTECTING IDENTITY· OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTS. 
CONFRONTATION -ISSUE 
The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments on two· 
cases involving hearings and the right of co·nj•rontation on 
January 18, 1960. The cases involve Hannah uso Larche and 
Hannah vs. Slawson. Solicitor General Rankin will argue the cases 
J·or the Government. 
\ 
The cases involve the President's Civil Rights Commission 
which was established by the Federal Civil Rights Act oj' 1957 
•. to investigate charges oj• citizens being di,scrtminatorily deprived 
o/ the right to vote. The q,uestion raised j'or the Supreme Court 
is whether the C'i,vil Rights Act oj' 1957 authorizes the Gf.vil _'9,ights 
Commission to conduct hearings wherein state. reg"i,stra.rs and 
private cit i,2ens accu.s ed oj' depriu ing others oj' the right to uo te 
are denied notice oj' charges _against them and conj'rotitation. 
Although the hearings held by the Civil Rights 
Commission are ·investigative rather than J·udic ial or punitive 
such as the normal Government hearing, the argument and t~ 
Supreme Court decision in these cases could shed some light • 
on the issue oj' conj'rontation as·well as the investigative agency 1s 
right to protect the identi,ty oj' conj•idential i,nj'ormants. This· 
is particularly true in view oj' the current nego·tiations to 
produce an Executd,ve Order in relation to the Industrial Security 
Program. 
I 
These are the two cases which the "Washington Post" 
commented upon editorially on December :14, 1959, supporting the 
Civil Rights Commission. 1s hearing procedures in that it was 
l I 
necess.ary that the Com.miss ion protect their conj'idential in.J.·ormants 
j•rom reprisa.ls by segregationists. The "Washington .Evening Star" 
oil January 11, 1960, in reporting the Attorne"li~ General 1s j'irst • 
NW 
trip to argue a case bej'ore the Supreme Court on -the constitu.tiona'l i,ty 
oj' the Federal Civil Rights Act commen-ted that the above cases would 
prove more di,tficult j'or the Governme~t to· argue and obtain a 
juuorable decision. 
"' 
