13-00000 
, OCC 07 '95 11:54AM 
SECRECY ~GREE?y{ENT 
I. I, --------------- (print full name), hereby aaree to accepl as a prior condition of my 
beina employed by, or otherwise retained to perform services for, the Central Intclligcnc:e Ascnc:y, or for staff elements of the 
Dlrec:t0r of Central ln&elligence (hereinafter .c:ollectively referred to ~ the • "Cc:l')tral Intelligence A aency" ), the obligations 
contained in this agreement. . . . ·-, 
2. I understand that in the course of my employment or other service with the Centraf !nteUigen~e Agency I may be 
given access to information or material that is classified or is in the procesi of a classific:ation detennination In accordance 
whh lhe standards set forth in Executive Order 12356 as amended or superseded, or other applicable Executive order, that if 
disclosed in an unauthorized manner would jeopardize in1elli1ence activities of the United States Government. I accept that by 
bein& granted access to such Inf ormatlon or material I will be placed in a position of special confidence and trUSt and become 
obligated to pro~ct the Information and/or material om unau orized d losure. 
3. In consideration for being employed or oth ~,;ttain;f to;f vide services to the Central Intelligence Agency, I 
hereby agree that· I will never diselose in any form , y person not authorized by the Central Intelligence. 
A1enc:y lo receive it, any infonnation or material in 'th r o the oll wi g categories: 
a, information· or material received or obrai ed 
Intelligence Agency that is m~ked as classified r 
co f my employment or other service with the Central 
I k w i classified; • • • 
b. information or material received or obtaine in cou e of my employment or other service with the Central 
In~li1eoce Aaency that I know is lri the process of class cation derenninadon. 
4. I understand that it nsibility to consu t WJ appropriate manag rities ln the component or 
Directorate that •Jl'lArw~r11.i my services, or with the Centl'll Intelli 91.f"'.!'-"l. • • Review Board 
if I am no longe ~ ..... """',._· • 'th the Agency, in order to ensure th • on or material 
within my lato to believe might be in e· • aragraph 3 is 
considered by th IQrc@=•~!llJJ~!Q in either of those c authorized to 
by agree to submi, for 
work of fiction. which co 
mi1ht be based upon el 
aaually prepared for pub 
at any dme the 
sec fonh in par 
permission to 
6. I un 
opponunity 
or material di 
response to me 
that the infi 
sources. My faililre 
or material in dlsp 
7. I unders 
the Central Jnte1U1ence 
the propcny of lhe United I tares ·Oov 
of a court of law. I qree to surrender, 
by an appropriate official of the Central 
the Central lncelligence Agency. 
1C11.1~11'111igence Agency, I here• 
in any fonn, including a 
fonnadon or material that 
~nr+.:rr.._,.....-.r_, publicly or thai I have 
IICll~Jl:-"OICffll¥tU Inielligenc:e A1ency or 
tRaz:IIIMHie-t1~ve access to the categories 
i-.o,J~wo--tm'· til I have received written 
e Agency an 
,,1,l)(ai)'r~s..,pty information 
~r,UJ,tr!ja,t>n and make a 
• on on the basis 
~~Jt"al]y identify such 
1ir,,a~close the infonnation 
m,,.,.1rm11oyment or orher service with 
greemenr are and will remain 
ppropriate official or final ruling 
• nnadon or material upon demand 
employment or other service with 
8. I agree to notify the Central Incelligence Agency immediately in the event tlw I am called upon by judicial or ~n­
gressional auchoritlcs, or by specially established Investigatory bodies of the executive branch, to testify about. or provide, In• 
fonnarion or material that I have a1reed herein noc to disclose. In any communication with any such authority or body. I shall 
observe all applicable rules or procedures for ensuring· that such inf onnation and/or material is handled in a secure manner. 
9. I undenwid that nothina contained in this agreement prohibitt me from reporting in1elligence activities that I con­
sider to be unlawful or improper directly to the Intelligence Oversight· Board established by lhe President, or to any successor 
body thac the President may establish. or to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Reprcaentativ" or the Scnai:t. 
I ~gnize that there are also established procedures for brinaing such matters to lhe aa.cndon of the Agency'• ·Inspector • 
General or to the Director of Central Intelligence. In making any reporr referred to ln rhia paragraph. I will ~bserve all applicable 
rules or procedures for ensuiing me secure handling of any information or material that may be Involved. I understand that 
any such information or material continues to be subject to this agreement for all other purposes and that such reporting does 
not constitute public disclosure or declossiflcation of that infonnadon or material. 
FOAM 8 OIICUTI PRIVIOU8 10,11 36 IOITIOH8 
-· 
