f 87D - E 
t"-\ 
S.EC1 .• 87. INVESTIGATION OF SUBVER, A 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVI91,S 
[ 
[.E. 
I I [ 
[ 
f 
to Secret Service locally and to FBIHQ for dissemination at headquarters 
level. 
(1) Secret Service should be advised of reason for referral; i.e., 
statement of class or classes of agreement which applies to 
subject. FD-376 serves as letter of transmittal for both local 
and FBI.HQ dissemination .. Forward original and one copy to FBIHQ 
and maintain copy in case file. • 
(2) After initial dissemination, as changes ·occur in residence and 
employment, ~dvise Secret Service locally by FD-366 and furnish 
two copies to FBIHQ. FD-366 must be submitted even ·though changes 
in residence and/or employment are noted in report or LHM 
being submitted. 
(3) For instructions governing dissemination to Secret Service in 
matters involving threats against President, refer to section 
134B, volume IV, of this manual. 
(4) Upon transfer of office of origin, old office of origin should 
furnish Secret Service locally with subject 1 s new residence and 
business address by Lr~1 or FD-366. Provide copies to FBIHQ and 
new office of origin for dissemination to Secret Service head­
·quarters and branch office covering new residence, respectively. 
(5) As an administrative aid to insure prope·r dissemination, the file 
covers of cases in which dissemination is beirtg made to Secret 
Service may by stamped "SS. 0 
Restrictions on field dissemination 
If security measures are known to be inadequate at" local office of 
another Government agency, do not disseminate locally, but bring matter 
to attention of FBIHQ for headquarters dissemination. 
ADMINISTRATIVE INDEX (ADEX) 
1. Purpose and general policy . : 
a. To have a readily available and up-to-date listing of individuals 
deemed currently dangerous to the national security. Objective is to 
identify individuals who should be afforded priority inves·tigative 
coverage in the event of a national emergency. 
b. Under no circumstance should individuals be included in ADEX merely 
because of their opposition to Government policies or because of the 
exercise of their constitutional rights of protest and dissent. 
c. ADEX is strictly an administrative device. It should not be treated 
as a factor in determining basic investigative decisions, i.e., 
whether an·investigation should be opened or closed, the extent of· 
investigation to be conducted in a particular case, etc. 
2. Criteria 
a. AD.EX should include individuals whose actions or statements have 
est_ablished that they represent a current threat to the national 
security, i.e.,: 
Individuals (whether affiliated with organized groups or not) who 
have shown a willingness and capability of engaging in treason, 
rebellion or insurrection, sedition, sabotage, espionage, terrorism, 
guerrilla warfare, assassination of government officials, or other 
s.uch acts which would result in interference with or a threat to 
the survival and effective operation of national, state or local 
government. • 
18 
6-6-73 
1 _NW 31B21__1=)ocld:32989529 1878 
( 
( 
\ 
( 
1 l i 
l ! i 
f i l 
2 
E 
1 
' i 
! ; 
I i 
! 
I 
~ 
i 
l 
1 1 
I ' ! 
