- 6 -
McCord Letters (continued) 
Mr. Helms directed that the letter should be retained in the file, but ·that 
nothing further should l::e done al::out it and that ha would taJ:e care of it. 
Thereafter a series of letters were recei v--ed from M.i:. McCord by Paul G?..ynor, 
then the Chief of SecJrity F.esearch Staff within the Office of Security. 
These letters were receiv-ed by Mr. Gaynor at his hone. Each letter was 
prorrptlv brought 1:,0 the attention of t-tr. Helrrs. The thrust of thesP letters 
was tJ:iat t11e ~~ttee to Re-elect the President and high officials within 
the Nixon AG...1iu.rnstration we.re planning _to blame the CIA for the Watergate 
break-in. Mr. Helms directed that thes2 letters not be referred tn t11e 
Justice Depart:rrent and that he v.Duld take care of them. Mr. Osoom recalls 
being present when the matter was discussed with the General CoW1Sel of the 
CIA, Mr. Houston, 'Who advised. that the CLi\ was not o'!Jligated to reveal these letters to the Justice Depart:rrent. 
At a much later date, Mr. Ost-om gave full testirrony with resoect to these 
McCord letters and the actions regarding them to the Nedzi Sul:xxmmittee of 
House Appropriations Conmittee and to the counterpart Senate Subcorrmittee. 
2. The Pe.i1..rungton Matter: For many vears a man narred Lee Pennington, a forrrer 
FBI agent, has been retained bv the CIA as a confidential info:rmant. His 
o::xrpensation from the CIA has been $250 i_:::er rronth. Mr. Osborn stated that he 
has no idea what kind of info:rmatio!1 h-3.S ever been supi_)lied to the Agency by 
Mr. Pennington .in e.,:change for t..11; o:mpensation paid him. 
In Auqust 1972 Mr. Ost:om was on vacation during the tirre his deputy, ~mlib 
s~ was in ch.3.rge of the Office of Security. (The Office of Security had 
l::een designated by the OCI as the liaison wit.~ all other g:::ivemrrental age..ricies 
-and departrrents • retating to 1•Jaterqate matters.) 
While Mr. Ost:om was on vacation an FBI agent nan--ed Arnold Parham contacted 
the Office of Security and reqt:ested information on a rran sinplv narred 
"Pennington". The request was directed to Steve Kuhn of the Office of 
Security. Mr. Kuhn's ::ieputy, Hollis Whitaker, took the request of agent 
Parhmn to E~:,;re·iiJss and asked whether the FBI should be given the names 
of ooth Penningtons or just one of them. eMf~rass:::'instructed Whitaker that 
Parh:::un should be supplied only with the narre of Cecil Pennington, a retired 
errployee of the CIA, who was not related in any wav to Lee Pennington. <:::::@e~ 
.instructed. Whitaker that Lee Pennington's narre should not be given to Parham. 
~~¼Ol.lld have known that Jarres !'-'cCord ,;,hile he \-Ja.S employed .in the 
Office of Security had acted as the case officer for lee Per.nington, that 
McCord was involved with the Watergate break-in, and that the IBI was really 
interested in Lee Pennington. 
Mr. Osborn states that all of the ab:>\~ infonration carre to ·his attention in 
February 1974 and that he had r.o kno..;led;2 of it until Uut t.irre. 
'IOP S.O:RCT 
NW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 26 
