• 
• May 1973 
MEHORAl\"DU!-1 FOR: ' DDI 
SUBJECT : • Sensitive. Activities 
1. FBIS has been engaged in no activities related to the Ellsbcrg 
and Watergate cases. L 
2. FBIS operations occasionally extend to the domestic arena. From 
time to time, FBIS linguists arc made available to DDO or Office of 
Co~ruunications co~ponents for special operations (usually abroad) involving 
close-support SIGI~T work or translation of audio take. ·On one occasion 
recently DDO, on behalf of the FBI, requested the services of several 
FBIS linguists skilled in Arabic to work directly for the FBI on a short­
term proj e.ct here in Washington. The arrangements were made by ~[r. Oberg 
of the DDO CI Staff. He said the project was very highly classified and 
that FBIS participatiori was approved by Mr. Colby and the Director. FBIS 
participation ,-.•os. ar>provcd by the Director of FBIS af tcr a check with 
the fJ)DJ.. Other examples of sensitive lin~uistic support ,,·ork are help 
in the. handling and resettlement of c!0fcctors, the recent assjg;1r:ient of 
an employee to the Bureau of Narcotics and D.:mgcrous Drugs to transcribe 
recordings in a rare Chinese dialect, and the detailing of another 
Chinese linguist on two occasions to assist in the U.S. military training 
of Chinese Nationalist cadets. 
3. Within its responsibility for monitoring press agency trans­
missions for intelligence information, FBIS publishes and distributes 
some material which·· falls in a 
11
gray
11 
area of copyright protection, libel., 
and privacy of international communications. Press se1~vices controlled 
by national governments and transmitted b; radiotcletype withou~ 
specific addressees, e.g. the Soviet TASS service and the PRC's !:lCNA, 
are monitored by FEIS and the material is disseminated without restric-
tion. The legRlity of this has been affirmed by decisions of the 
Office of General Counsel. However, we also monttor some in-house, 
correspondent-to-headquarters dispatches \.:hich are considered private 
point-to-poiut transmissions. FBIS therefore avoids public distribution of 
material r.1onitored from these circuits by labeling them with an "Official 
Use Only" caveat. The sar,1e caveat is used on material which we monitor 
from other press aeencics which arc protected by international copyright, 
e.g. • Agence France Presse (AFP), the Hiddle East News Agency C-fENA) , and the 
Iraqi N~s Agency (INA). This procedure has allowed FBIS to clisseminate news 
2 . . . . . 0 J !; -: : c ....... 1 .. 1roc:r cl. ,1f,., ..... -
I NW 38296 Docld.:32989£24 Page 82 
l 
.._ __________ .: .. ··' 
