[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
2. 
[ 
• 
f.ART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS .• 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, check circulars·, and apprehe.nsio:n 
0rders 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list com·posed or individuals 
and organizations to which identification orders, wanted· flyers, c·heck 
.circulars, and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each field office must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see that no· data is sent to 
firms which have ceased business or have merged with other· o·rganizations. 
[A s~rvey should be conducted by Agents each year by every of~ice, ~t the 
time the field office mailing list is purged, to determine whether addi.­
tional names of individuals and businesses should be added :to the fie·ld· 
office mailing list.] 
a. Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Bureau·upon receipt of 
field request. (The· Bureau will prepare, ·on its. own initiative, 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decid& what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on 
the list. 
(1) The quality of the assistance the addressee is in a position to· 
give • 
(2
3
) The cooperation which has been afforded• 
( ) The following must appear on the list: 
Alcoho;l. and T·obacco Tax Division Missions Providing Lodging 
Bureau of Customs Post Office Inspectors 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus Postmasters 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Salva.tion Army 
ment Officers Secret Service 
FBINA Graduates 
Hotels 
Immigration and Naturaliza-
·!;ion Se~vice 
{'4) The following may appear on the list: 
U. S. Marshals 
Automobile Clubs Navy Shore Patrol 
Banks Oil Company Special Agents 
County Attorneys Parole and Probation Officers 
County Coroners Plant Quarantine Officers 
Credit Companies Protective Associations 
Detective Agencies Race Tr.acks 
Enlistment Officers, • Savings and Loan Associations 
U. S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps :service Recruiting Offic~rs 
Employment Service [State Employment ·o·ffices] 
Fire Departments -~state Hospital& fo~Insane 
Forest Service Steamship•Companies 
Gunsmiths Telegraph Companies 
Insurance Companies U, s. Attor~eys 
Movie Studios • U. S. Commissioners 
c. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. 
Should a compelling reason exist for distribution of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugitive by a ne~spaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for 
such distribution. 
d. Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels. 
e, Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans, Of£ice of origin 
has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
\ NW 38321 Docld:32989529 377 
4 
7-27-60 
; .. 
C 
( 
-.-.,. 
