13-00000 
ADMINISTRATIVE -INTERNAL USE ONLY 
SJ:Clltl 
a. Before submitting appeal to the President, I faxed 
copy of appeal to JFK Board's General Counsel with the idea that 
if it presented new and convincing evidence, he would present it 
to the Board during its session. 
b. Shortly after submitting the appeal to the 
President, I spoke with White House Counsel and Counsel to JFK 
Board. We agreed to put the appeal on hold until the Board could 
review CIA's submission to the White House and possibly 
~econsider its determinations in light of additional information 
presented in the appeal. 
c. I talked with JFK Board's Counsel and Executive 
Director regularly about the best way to handle the appeal. I 
arranged with them to have the General Counsel of CIA to come to 
the Board's February meeting and present new information 
regarding the issues on appeal. 
d. On February 29, the General Counsel of CIA and I 
met with the JFK Board and their staff. We discussed issues on 
appeal as well as 3 other stations recently released (~ 
@fockholm, Copenhagetj). 
e. Based on the information presented by CIA at this 
meeting, the Board reconsidered and agreed to protect all of the 
issues on appeal as well as 3 other stations. 
IV. Future appeal procedures 
1. Both JFK Board and CIA agree that we should never have 
to appeal something to the President and we shoul.d try to work 
out difficult issues on our own. 
2. In the last 2 months, when CIA believed that a release 
would damage the national security, the Board has invited us to 
their meetings to present additional evidence on the issue. In 
some cases, they have reconsidered their decision and protected 
the information. 
3. The Board also recently released a_iokyo\station - we are 
arranging to meet with them at the end of this month to present 
stronger arguments. for protecting this station. 
4. The Board is now considering the release of names of 
CIA employees who retired under cover. It is very important for 
CIA's mission that the names of its employees, especially those 
who remain covert, be protected even after retirement. In the 
spirit of cooperation and in the hopes of getting the Board to 
understand this, CIA helped arrange a meeting between the JFK 
Board's General Counsel and a retired CIA covert employee 
ADMINISTRATIVE -INTERNAL USE ONLY 
