13-00000 
P.4 
lle~ost for 'FW2&I ~or I>ee1a••ifioat1on of ltorean l>oc:nmum.ts 
·1. Background~ :en December 1995, the Director of. 
Central J:ntelligence drafted a Policy Directive cal.ling for 
the implementation of a comsmmity-wide syst-ematic 
declassification program under the leadership.of the Center 
for the Study of :rntelligence (CSI). '.l'he Community · ' 
Historical Review Advisory Committee (CHRAC) , cha.ired by the 
Director of CSI, was form.ad last year to implement the DCl:'s 
directive and to select and prioritize topics for 
histori~l declassification review by the·Intelligence 
Community. At the OCtober meeting of the CllRAC, the agency 
representatives approved the review of materials related to 
the Xorean War as the first topic for historical 
declassification to be done collectively by the J:ntelligence 
Community. 
2. The Korean Pra:Ject, Funds are requested £or ~ 
Agency to . fully' participate in this project. With funding, 
CSI, in cooperation with the Agency's automatic 
declassification program (OIM/IRG/ADD) , will review for· 
_possible declassification intelligence records related to 
the Xorean War p~iod (1 January 1950 through 27 July 1953). 
The review would be done concurrently with the rest of the 
Intelligence Community. The· joirit effort will be 
coordinated by CSI. 
3. The Project• s cost. Preliminary research done by 
cn•s History staff indicates there are approximately 100 
boxes, about 150,000 pages; of :material that will have to be 
reviewed from archival materia1 belonging.to several Agency 
directorates. The following costs would be incurred during 
such a review: 
• Document Preparation (select pertinent documents for 
copying and organize them for reviewers) - One contractor for SO days ($13,000) 1 • ;,_ • : 
• Copying Expenses - One copier, at 75 pages per hour for 
2000 hours ($50,000) 1 • 
• Document Review (contractor document review to make 
declassification determinations with guidance supplied by 
staff supervisor) - One contractor doing 2 reviews of 
each docwnent at a rate of 200 pages per day ($390,000) 
~ Contractor is approximately $270 per as.y. 
a Copiers are aPProximately $25 per hour. 
