' ' 
NW 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
SECTION 107 •• CURI'IT INFORIIA.NTS AND CONFIDi'L SOURCES .107N 
• f. If the infor:nant receives from outside employment less than $4800, 
all of which io subject to Social Security tax, the amount on which 
be will have to report for Social Security tax purposes, if he com­
pletes a schedule C, is the difference between the amount received 
from regular employment and $4800. 
g. If informant completes a schedule C, the nature of business of the 
self-employed must be stated and informants should be instructed to 
us~ as the nature of self-employment any applicable obcupation with­
out revealing connection with the Bureau. 
7. Stipulation re payments made to witnesses 
a. In trialo in which informants, former informants, or other persons who 
were paid sums of money are prospective witnesses, the Bureau must 
furnish the Department[a set of Photostats of the original receipts 
signed by the prospective witnesses. The original receipts and a set 
of Photostats will be transmitted to the field office in whose 
territory the trial will take pla~e.) The office.ha~dling prosecution 
must determine from the[Government] attorney which individuals are 
to be used as witnesses. Ther~after the office should furnish and/or 
cause other appropriate offices to furnish to the Bureau the follow-
inr information: 
1
1 The correct, full name 
2 All aliases, code names, and symbql numbers 
3 The first date of contact by your office 
4 If first contact was prior to September, 1944, the names of all 
SAs, SACs, and ASACs who contacted and m2y have made payments 
·(5). A tabulation of _all payments, bro¾:en down as to the amounJli appli­
cable to services and the amount applicable to expenses, 
[Although tabulations are not furnished to the Department, those 
prepared by your office will be reconciled with Bureau reoords,) 
(6} A listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
advances 
(7
8
) The date of last contact by your office 
{ ) Whether the individual has been contacted by any other office 
bo Each individual and each item of information must be accounted.for. 
If no co11tact was made with a particular individual, the Bureau must 
be so advisedo 
0 0 Where an informant has preYiously been ttsed and a tabulation of pay­
ments was prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be giYen 
only from the date of the last trial from 1rhioh the individual was 
used. 
d 0 The above information should be aubmitted separate and apart from 
correspondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be 
addressec1 ·to the attention of the Aiiministra-'dve Division, Voucher 
Unit. Interdivisional ool:'respondenoe should be a<ldressed to the 
Bureau with copies designated for the interested off~ces. 
B. Receipt of uneinployment compensa·tion , 
a. .A.t times security informan·t;s and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
with private industry due to strikes, economic conditions, or similar 
circums·tances. As a result they become eligible for unemployment 
compensation. Whe:i:-e unemployment regul:d;ions require listing' of a,11 
sources of income as a prerequisite for obtaining unemployment 
compensation .and security informants and/or sources who at the ti,ne 
are being pald by the Bureau for services rendered. fail to comply, 
the situation is potentlally embarrassing. The Bureau cannot be 
placed in the position of condoning a violation of the state law on 
the part of any informant or source. Each field office must determine 
from state unemployment compensation officials effect of unemployment 
compensation laws on paid informants a.nd/or sources. Depending on 
local requirements, informants and sources must be alerted accord.:i.ngly, 
b. Whenever a paid inform.?.nt and/or sou:r-cc becomes unemployed or has 
knowledge of impending unemployment, cliscus s all facts ,·Ti th him a".ld 
submit observations and recolr.:nendations to Bureau. Unless advised 
to the contrary by the Bureau, follov1 recommended action. Each 
office must assume tho responsibility of guarding against informant's 
:>.coepting a Bureau payment that would conflict with unemployment 
compensation lawso At the same time, weigh seriously the possible 
need for an inforinant to npply and accept unemployment compensation to 
Docld:32989529 Page 1432 
21 
10-13-60 
