t 
) 
\ 
) 
- 'J 
SECTION 107. [INT-AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CO.ENTIAL SOURCES; 107G 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
nothing transpired of potential prosecutive value with respect to the 
individual, FD-306 should list the substantive case file number 
or should list subject's name and it will not be necessary to staple 
a copy of the informant's statement to FD-306. When informant's 
statement contains references to large number of individuals and/or 
organizations, and exceeds two pages, consider channelizing to sub­
stantive case file only those portions of stat~ment which apply to 
particular individual or organization. Of course, entire statement 
should be filed in informant's subfile. This procedure should be 
employed unless logical reason dictates otherwise. When preparing 
lengthy channelizing memoranda reporting material of interest to other 
officest limit the number of copies prepared for each other such office 
to two. Clearly indicate next to the'name of the receiving office, the 
number of the page containing information pertinent to that office and 
note on cover page that distribution of material to the receiving field 
office files is left to 4iscretion of the receiving office. If the 
channelizing memorandum includes names of individuals who merely 
attended a meeting or gathering and played no important role, the 
reporting office is to attach to the channelizing memorandum a one­
page memorandum listing the names of all individuals who were merely 
in attendance and had no important function. The preparation and 
distribution of the additional copies of the one-page attachment are 
left to the discretion of the receiving office. 
g. Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, advise trial 
attorney that informant not only furnished information concerning 
instant case but also provided other statements not pertinent to 
case at issue. Trial attorney will thus be prepared in event in­
formant testifies on direct examination or cross-examination that 
he furnished information in addition to his testimony. 
2. Recording written and oral information 
a. Written by informant 
{1}• May be in handwriting or hand printing of informant or typed. 
(2} Original only should be submitted and informants should never 
retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously 
check informants to see that they do not keep any notes or 
( 3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
{7) 
(10) 
(11) 
(12) 
copies. 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identifica­
tion. 
Date when informant prepares statement should be placed at 
top of statement. 
All information obtained by informants regarding each meeting 
or separate activity in which they engage should be sub­
mitted in one statement. 
Informants should include in statements specific dates and 
places; purpose of meeting or activity being related; iden-
tities of speakers and persons pre$ent, plus their known status 
in any group; and specific activity or comments of individuals 
present. 
Informant should identify statement by affixing his code name 
immediately under the last written line on each page. Any cor-
rections, erasures, changes, or additions should be identified 
by informant affixing his code name or initials of his code name. 
Agents• names should never appear on any page. 
Informant should refer tq himself in body of statement by his 
true name and use third person. 
Agent receiving written statement should not make any corrections, 
additions, deletions, etc., or place any markings whatever thereon. 
Do not block stamp or serialize. Receipt and serialization 
should be recorded on form FD-306 or on channelizing memorandum 
containing applicable items set forth on form FD-306. 
Extraneous material should be kept to absolute minimum. Informants 
?hould leave out such items as: 
(a} Any reference concerning Director and Bureau 
(b) References to other documents and statements submitted by 
informant 
9 
10-15-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1148 
