,--. 
• 
• The FBI investigates such allegations whether they 
relate to Members of Congress or any other person. _The 
results of these investigations are furnished to United States 
Attorneys and/or other prosecutive ·off icia_ls of the Department 
of Justice. The investigation may establish (a} that the 
congressman or Senator has, in fact, violated a Federal law, 
(b) that a Federal law h9-s been violated, but that the involve­
ment of the Congressman or Senator in that violation cannot be 
established, (c) that a Federal law has been violated, but 
that the Congressman or Senator clearly I:iad no involvement 
in its violation, or (d) that no violation of Federal law , 
was committed. 
Included among such allegations involving Congress­
men and Senators have been the following types of v5.olations 
within the FBI's jurisdiction: B·ank Fraud and Embezzlement; 
Conflict of Interest; Conspiracy to Obstruct Justice; Election 
Laws; Fraud Against the Government; and Interstate Transporta­
tion in Aid of Racketeering. 
(2) Violations of Federal laws within the FBI 1 s 
jurisdiction involving Congressmen a·nd Senators as victims. 
, 
The results of FBI investigations of such violations 
are furnished to United States Attorneys and/or other prosecu­
tive officials of the Department of Justice. In many instances, 
the original complaint in these cases is received from the law­
ma.ker-vic~im himse.1£; however, if the information originates 
elsewhere, the FBI promptly notifies the Congressman or. Senator 
involved of the threat which has been made. In addition; other 
·1aw enforcement agencies which have a legitimate interest in 
these cases are notified of the threat. 
·violations of the Congressional Assassination, Kid­
naping and Assault Statute, Bomb Threats, and Extortion are 
among the crimes within the FB'I's jurisdiction which have 
invoived lawmakers as victims. 
(3) Allegations that m~mbers of the staffs of 
Congressmen or Senators have violated Federal laws within the 
FBI
1
s jurisdiction, or that these staff members have been 
victims of such violations. 
The FBI inves,tigates such allegations and furnishes 
the results to United States Attorneys and/or other prosecutive 
officials of the Department of Justice. Where appropriate, the 
Congressman or Senator involved is also advised of the investi­gation. 
-· 2 -
NW--38296 Docld:32989624 • Page 209 
