I 
! 
i 
b. 
( 
( 6) 
( 7} 
( 10) 
( 11) 
( 12) 
107G 
InfoJ?mants should include. in the body of their statements specific 
dates and places; purpose of the meeting or activity being 
related; identities of spez.kers and persons present, plus their 
known status in any group; specific activity enga~ed in by each 
indiYidua1 presenJ.;; and com.>nents made by each indivio.ual. 
Inforlnant should identify each page at the bottom by affixing 
his code name. ltny correc·tions, erasures, changes, or additions 
shou]d be identi:fied(by informant affixing his code na.mc or the 
initia]s of his code name.] 
Agents 1 names should never appear on any page. 
Informan.JG should re:fer to himself in the body of the statom.ent 
by his true name and he should use the ·third person. 
Agent receiving written sta·l;ement should not make any oorrec•bions 1• 
additions, deletions, etc., thereto, nor should he place any 
markings thereon, such as his initials, date of receipt from 
informant, permanent symbol number of informant, file nurnbnrs, 
indexing symbols, etc. 
Do not block stamp or serialize. Receipt 2.nd serialization 
should be recorded on form FD-306 or on a channelizing 
memorandum which should contain the applicable items set 
forth on form FD-306. 
Extraneous material should be kept to an absolute minimum. 
Informants should leave out such items as: 
(a) .Any reference concerning the Director and the Bureau 
(b) References to other documents and statements submitted by 
the informant 
( c) Obvi-ous administr·ati ve mat.er.ial$ _ such as operational 
instr:u.c•!;ions given by contacting Agent to informan·I; 
These data should be furnished orally by informant to con­
tacting Agent who will record the information in memorandum 
form for the informant file. . 
Furnished orally by informan·I; 
(1) Contacting Agent should promptly reduce information to writing 
( 4) 
( 5) 
so tha·t it will be accurately recorded 2.s contemporaneously as 
possible with the making of the oral statement by the informant 
to the Agent. The following items furnished by informant should 
be left out: • 
~ ~j 
{ C) 
Any reference 
References to 
the informant 
concerning the Director and the Bureau 
.o-ther d9cuments and sta·tements submi·l;ted by 
Obvious administrative material,· such as operational 
instructions given by contacting Agent to informant. 
These data should be recorded in memorandum form for th~ inform­
ant file. 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or ider. '"ication. 
Date it at the top with the date the informant furnish. the 
information to the .Agent. No other date is desired exc,1p·I; the 
date of the meeting or activity which shall be set forth in the 
body of the statement. • 
Separate staJGements should be prepared for ea.ch meeting or each 
separate activity in which informan·I;~ engage and should be 
dictated by the Agent as if the informant were preparing them 
himself. 
The information, after being reduced to writing, should then ·be 
read promptly by the informant and acknowledged by :him by 
affixing•his code name on each page. In espionage and foreign 
nationality_matters authentication by inform.ants· is necessary 
only where fu_ture prosecution is possi.ble. 
11 
1-15-62 
1NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1534 
