I 
I 
Agency could have no part in the assassination of a government leader 
(including Castro) and it~wpuld not aid ·subject in his attempt. This 
included the following. "~~ would not furnish the silencer, nor scope 
nor any money for direct as.sassination; furthermore, we would not lift 
a finger to help subject es~ape from Cuba should he _assassinate Castro." 
The same document states this message was communicated to Amlash 
in November 1964 by Mr. Sanchez. • 
Despite this decision,• the CIA in fact continued to assist Amlash 
through a cut-out until Amlash's arrest in 1966. 
Later documents- on Amlash are also relevant to; the Septe1;I1.ber­
Nove.mber 1963 Amlash opera ti.on. Several such documents report informa­
tion received to the effect that Fidel Castro had long been aware of 
Amlash's plots against him;• For example, Amlash's one time Cuban 
mi.stress was believed to be working for Cuban intelligence and her 
brother was known to be with Cuban intelligence. Pari 8242 to DIR 
in December.1964 warns that Amlash's objective may be known to too 
many Cubans. And, one CIA informant reported in 1966 on one known 
double agent of Cuban intelligence working for CIA and said the CIA's 
Cub·an operations had been penetrated at a high level. by Cuban intel­
ligence. He identified this latter individual only as one of the Cuban 
······--·~ ·..;, 
exiles who was knowledgeable. of a number of the most important opera­
tions. Nevertheless, Amlash's file contains nothing to indicate any 
detailed analysis of these possible penetrations of. the CIA's Amlash 
operation, althougQ a cry9tic handwritten note on at least one re-
port rejects the suggestion that Amlash was himself reporting to Castro. 
One other document bears on the testimony Amlash's case officers 
gave before the Select Committee to the effect that Amlash was given 
a poison pen for self-protection. That document reports that Amlash, 
and other Cuban officials in Paris in 1963, were carrying pistols for 
self-protection throughout their travel in .Europe. 
·--· ·-- \.,,. ... . • - . .. ----~ ____ ,,, . . •' .. -
Finally, although the staff has not reviewed all possible CIA 
files to determine what other operations Castro migh~ have been re= 
ferring to in his September? statement, the Amlash ffle indicates 
that some coastal landings of supplies in August were ~the only other 
CIA operations conducted against Cuba in this time per:iod. 
mt .5095.5 Docid: 32423630 Page 480 
