NW 
I 
. . 
• • 
I I 
• I ,t 
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION 
CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE AND ORGANIZED CRIME SECTION 
.Du.ring the past few months the Department has. 
launched into a program of review of past, current, and 
contemplated prosecutions to determine if such cases have 
been materially affected by the use of electronic listening 
devices. This has required the establishment of soecial 
microphone indices at Bureau Headquarters and volu~inous 
correspondence with various field divisions to determine if 
individuals listed in the Department's inquiries were covered 
by FBI microphones. - With regard to listed individuals on· 
whom we have had some form of microphone coverage, we are so 
advising the Department and pertinent logs, together in 
some cases with other supporting material, are being obtained 
from the field for review by Departmental attorneys .. 
The Department made pub_lic· the fact that such· a • 
review was.under way in the filing of a memorandum with the 
Supreme Court by the Solicitor General in the Joseph Schipani 
case, November 30, 1966. 
Set forth as follows are the brief circumstances 
regarding individual prosecutive situations in which, to 
date, the Department has made disclosures to various courts 
regarding the FBI's use of electronic listening devices of 
pertinence to those prosecutions. 
Joseph Frank Schipani 
Schipani is a New York hoodlum and a member of 
La Cosa Nostra who was convicted and sentenced to three years 
• imprisonment and fined $12,fi00 for violation of the income tax 
laws for the years 1956 through 1960. In response to the 
151 
-Department's request, they"were provided with logs reporting 
those instances where Schipani was covere~by an electronic 
surveillance.· This electronic·surveillance was not directly 
on Schipani but was in an office frequented by top La Cosa 
Nostra rac.ket figures. On November 30, 1966, the Solicitor 
General requested the Supreme Court to vacate the judgment 
regatdin~ Schipani of the Court of Appeals and remand the 
case to the District Court for a new trial. On December 12, 
1966, the Supreme Court complied with the request of· the 
Solicitor General. This was installed under the general 
authority of the Attorney General, as were all of the -
~llowing unless otherwise specified. 
- 3 - .. 
I 
f 
;. 
' I 
l 
i 
I 
I 
t. 
