14-00000 
. 
'6EP.28.1998 3:26PM A 
the ma.il opening program except they worried about its security 
and also thought it would be more effective if-expanded. This 
is how the survey described the project in 1959: 
"a. The Project Branch conducts a project o:E 
censorship within the US of mail from the USSR which 
is called HTLINGUAL. Originally this project was 
developed by t~e Office of Security at the request 
of SR Division in 1952. Its purpose was to identify 
and to obtain samples of handwriting and basic back­
ground facts on long established correspondence 
between persons in· the USSR and the United States. 
Such information was to be ·used operationally to 
sustain any communications with secret writing, • • 
which would likely pass the Soviet censors and could 
be picked _up in the U.S.A. The interception is done 
a.t the central Post Office in New York, and the 
letters are delivered to the Agency for processing 
and return. As the need for Soviet communication 
camouflage lessened with the increase of legal 
travel to and from the USSR the Project was re­
oriented and expanded toward direct Cl and FI goals 
in September 1956, and it was taken over by the 
CI Sta£ f. : '/ 
~ ' z 
- "b. At present this .JlTOUPz,f-ncludes {ii vi} 
employees in New York andlfifteen}at Headquarters. ~ 
Those in New York a.re under the Office of Security;.­
those in Headquarters under the CI Staff.· The 
yearly cost is the total of the various salaries. 
"c. The primary purposes of this Project are to 
produce CE information;. operational leads and any 
positive intelligence that can be gleaned from the 
mail. 
''d. The ·operation in New York photographs 
about 50,000 envelopes per month out of a total 0£ 
about 200,000 ~etiers coming from the USSR to in­
dividuals in the U.S.A. via New York. These films 
~re forwarded to Headquarters and e~amined in the 
~Projects Branch and some 10,000 of them are selected 
on the basis of Agency interest in the areas of 
origin in Russia, These 10,000 negatives are then 
made into prints, and the names of the addressees 
are recorded alphabetically.on IBM cards. From the 
IBM cards RI makes a continuing record and a copy 
of this record of names is returned to the Projects 
Branch. , 
"e. About l,.000 of these intercepts are opened 
per month in New York by the Office of Security, . 
the letters verifaxed and copies sent .to .tbe Projects 
Branch at Headquarters. There is a watch list of 
some 500 names on file both in the Branch at Head-. 
quarters and in the Security Office in New York and 
any letters coming from OT going to ·any of the names 
S E C R E T 
50 
