13-00000 • 
• r 
- 3 -
b. Mann is to send around a draft OAS resolution 
which was prepared during Martin's tim.e. 
c. As to the specific paragraphs of the Vance 
memo, Bundy indicated his personal views (not an 
Achninistration commitment) that items 1 and 2a were 
OK; 2b for Cuban ships only; 3a should be intensified; 
3b and 3c were directly -connected to a separate black­
list enterprise; 4 was OK. As for. actions against 
Cuban subversion in Latin America, on paragraph 1 we 
should see just what our <?pportunities are, and on para­
graph 2 CIA should determine just what we think the 
local traffic will bear and just what our capabilities 
might be. 
Finally, after a very short discussion on low-level reconnaissance 
requirements for Cuba; General Taylor and Mr. McCone decided 
to pay close attention to high-level results on Friday, Saturday, 
and Sunday, and to take a fresh reading on the matter on Monday. 
Action: DD/I to cover the low-level matter over the weekend, 
DD/P to ride herd on the activities generated by the Vance memo. 
5. The next item wa:s a very cursory review _of the 
J " ' ,~. -• _, -~ ' 
covert action programs for Japan~ France, Tibet, ;,Taiwan;, and 
China. Mr. Vance asked how we could measure the effectiveness 
of such actions and Mr. McCone pointed out to him that this could 
not be, rea:lly adequately measured and gave all the reasons therefor. 
Mr. Vance stated that he was just getting broken into this type of 
activity and he would appreciate some briefings by the action 
officers. (It was subsequently arranged through Pete Jessup to 
have Colby and Bill O'Ryan make appointments' with Secretary Vance 
specifically to discuss French operations and our Far Eastern 
operations. 
6. Mr. McCone then brought up the matter of the SAC U-2 
aircraft in Manila as covered in his memorandum of 13 February 
which was not given any distribution. Mr. McCone said that ever 
since 1954 it had been established policy that all reconnaissance 
flights over denied and unfriendly territory or covert flights over 
