,,.,-.___ 
IRS [JFK ½aw 11 (a)] ' 
Donald Edward Ganoung We have investigated Ganoung as a 
Departmental. applicant for the position of consultant with the Law 
Enforcement Administration at Washington, Do C., the position 
he now holds. He has a degree in criminology .and is a former 
Episcopalian priest who has worked among deviate elements. He 
has also been active in civil rights and antidraft demonstrations 
and twice was arrested in this connection. Divorced by his wife 
in 1967 after he had an affair with another woman, Ganoung also 
-----------....J The results of our investigation of him 
~ere furnished to the Attorney General on 2/11/69. 
William Henry Rentschler Rentschler, a candy·company operator, 
has been extremely active in Illinois Republican Party politics. He 
carried on a notorious adulterous relationship which led to a divorce 
from a former wife. Our investigation of him revealed many 
prominent persons who would not recommend Rentschler for a 
position with the Government in view of his moral weaknesses and 
reported lack of business acumen. Our· investigation not yet com-
plete but summary memo furnished the White House on 2/10/69. 
Special Inquiry Investigations for the White House Security officers 
of various Government agencies have expressed shock at the lack 
of knowledge or the total disregard of the provisions of th~ Federal 
Employee Security Program by the White House staff responsible 
for filling top-level positions with the new Administration. Most 
requests for investigation have been of persons already firmly estab­
lished in their new jobso When derogatory data is developed it is 
simply requested that the investigation be continuedo Only one person 
is known to have been discharged as a result of derogatory information 
developed during investigation. Don Virdin, Internal Revenue Service 
(IRS), called Bureau 2/13/69 and indicated Bureau had checked through 
ms only 8 of last 25 publicly announced Presidential appointeeso 
Bureau has run checks of ms on all requests received from White 
House on Presidential appointees and it would appear White House 
only asked for 8 of last 2 5 to be checked. 
" Selective Service These ca:ses in recent years have broadened in 
scope with recurring schemes to obstruct the drafto We have 14,000 
pending investigations, up 5,000 from a year agoo Fiscal year 1968 
produced 809 convictions and the first seven months of this fiscal 
period l1ave recorded 380 convictions, an increase over this period 
a year ago. An interesting case is sumn1arized which involves an 
18-year-old Californian ,vhose mother, follo,ving his arraig1trnent 
for failure to register for the draft, atten1pted to get a Restraining 
Order by contending that she was responsible for her son's actions 
e 
