) . 
' 
) 
' ,-~ 
SECTION 107. [IN1.AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND C01'-&)ENTIAL SOURCES; 107W 
[AND REIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE Ass•J 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
b. IA 
(1) Paid on FBIHQ authority 
Submit evaluation as instructed for OA apove 
(2) Paid on SAC authority or unpaid 
Every six month$ submit memorandum to SAC evaluating IA 
according to the format of 260 b. (2). 
c. Assets who are members of the military, whether IA or OA 
See 5. e. 
28. Income tax returns 
a. Inform assets who receive compensation for their services to FBI 
that such compensation must be reported as income when filing an 
income tax return. 
b. FBI income should be set forth on Federal income tax return, 
form 1040, as income received from other sources for personal 
services rendered through a private enterprise or similar general 
term applicable to asset's position and station in life. 
c. If asset is self-employed and files Schedule C as self-employed 
individual, it may be possible to include his FBI income with his 
self-employed income from other sources without revealing connection 
with FBI. 
d. If asset cannot report payments received from FBI for services 
without jeopardizing his security, such payments will be subject 
to 20 percent withholding tax. There are three categories in which 
taxes will not be withheld from payments to FCI assets: 
(1) For reimbursement of expenses 
(2) Under SAC authority 
(3) To assets who have been able to report FBI income on their 
Federal tax returns without jeopardizing their security or 
without challenge from Internal Revenue Service. Each office 
has detailed instructions and exhibits concerning procedure 
to be followed in handling and control of money withheld. 
e. When asset or former asset is considered as potential witness in 
FBI case, determine whether he paid Federal and state taxes on 
income he received from FBI for his services. If such taxes have 
not been paid, obtain all pertinent details and submit recommenda­
tions to FBIHQ for handling situation. 
29. Receipt of unemployment compensation 
State law may require all applicants for unemployment compensation to 
list all sources of income. Payment of out-of-pocket expenses need 
not be listed as income when applying for unemployment compensation; 
however, payment for services must be listed. FBIHQ should be consulted 
in each case where this situation arises. 
30. Monthly and quarterly letters 
For these administrative details, see section 107, part I," M, of this 
manual. 
"SECRET -NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
37 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1211 
