[ [13.] 
f 
[ 
f 
. [ 
[ 
[ 
( 
• " S .ION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIC. . 87E 
a. Above also applies to Agent's notes taken during surveillances or 
concernin~ evidence otherwise obtained. 
Interviews with subjects of security investigations 
a. Policy 
No security investigation of an individual is to be closed unless 
subject is included in(ADEX]or consideration given to· interview. 
Bureau will not authorize cancellation 0f[ADEX]card for•inactivity 
until subject has been interviewed or Bureau advised why interview 
is inadvisable. • • • b. Purpose 
(1) When investigation is inconclusive, to determine s.ubject's 
sympathies and whether he continues to adhere to revolutionary 
doctrines 
(2) To develop information concerning activities of subject.and his 
associates in subversive movement 
{3) To develop informants 
·c. ~AG autho:r:i ty 
Without Bureau authority SAG may: 
(1) Authorize interviews w1tn individuals who have not been subjects 
of security investigations and avail~ble information does not 
warrant opening case 
(2) Authorize interviews of subjects of ?ecurity cases who have 
previously been interviewed with Bureau authority, provided no 
change has taken place i.n subject '.s status and interviews are 
conducted under same conditions as previ·ous·ly authorized 
(3) Authorize interviews of subjects.of closed security cases 
(4) Authorize interviews of rank-and-file black extremists except 
as noted in section 122, volume IV, of this manual 
d. Procedures for interviews under SAC authority 
(1) If.there ~s closed_f~le, reopen it. if none, open case in 134 [classification.] . • • • • • • .. 
_(2) Case Agent[should]prepare memorandum requesting SAC authority to 
conduct interview of subject to determine his attitude towards 
cooperation with FBI. [Review of office files should be included.] 
(3) During first contact Agent should identify himself, outline 
Bureau's responsibilities in security.field, and request subject's 
assistanceo If individual has been member of basic revolutionary 
organization and appears cooperative, he may be questioned about 
his own activities. However, this interview is f9r sole .purpose . 
of determining whether subject might be cooperative. 
(4) • If cooperative, advise Bureau and conduct backgro_und investigation 
under section 107, volume IV, of this manual. If uncooperative, 
prepare brief memorandum for file and close _case. Letter to 
. Bureau not necessaryo 
e. Prior Bureau authority 
Prior Bureau authority required for: 
(1) Subjects of active current investigation where no prior Bureau 
authority has been obtained 
(2) Closed cases on current(ADE.~]subjects where no prior interview 
has been conduc~ed 
(3) Subjects of investigations requested by Bureau, both open and 
closed, such as applicant and loyalty cases . 
(4) Individuals when circumstances indicate delicate situation and 
greater th~n usual risk involved, such as labor leaders and 
individuals in educational, mass media, religious, or publish­
ing fields. Bureau authority needed even though there were 
prior interviews. . . 
(S) Securitr subjects who have publicly disclosed preyious contacts 
(6) [DeletedJ 
In above cases, no report need be submitted when requesting Bureau 
authority to interview subject. 
27 
4-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1927 
