538 ORGANIZED c1m.rn ANl) ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS 
One day in Hl.i0, one .Toe Castellano "·ent to. the Italian Club in 
Tampa to play cards ,Yith a group of friends. During the course 
of the evening, he talked to Salm torn Scaglione privately. Scaglione 
asked Castellano if he wanted to make a profit on a "hot loner' of 
whisky. Castellano said he ,vas interested, and they agreed to meet 
later that night. 
At the meeting, Sen.i:rlione wns accomp:rnied by ,Joe l\Iistrettn. nnd 
Angelo LoScalzo. Castellano got into the front seat of a car provided 
by the others, arnl the fom men drove to a thickly wooded area outside 
of Tarnpn, city limits. Castellano was then attacked with a hammer, 
heing hit rcpeatcclly on the head. He managed to get out of the car, 
alt.hough he was hadlv hurt. He broke loose from his elderly nssail­
ants nncl ran away. ·ne stumbled into a nearby house and asked to 
be taken to the constable's house, where he gave a statement about 
the incident, narnin::r the three as his assailants. He swore to the 
eounty sol-icitor tliat he had no idea why he wns beaten. Scaglione, 
Jlistretta, and LoScalzo were arrested and charged ,vith assault with 
intent to murder. 
,foe Castellano disappeared for a period of time. After he was 
found, the case went to trial. Castellano chan:.;ecl his story completely 
and testiliecl that lie had injured himc:elf while hunting on the night 
of the attack. The prrdictable result, of course, ,vns a verdict for the 
defendants of "not guilty." 
RECO:IG\IENDATIOXS FOR FGJ:TIIER FEDER.\L LEGISLATION TO FIGHT 
ORGANIZED CHIME 
I belieYe finnly tlint it is almost impossible for the Police Depart­
ment of the City of Tnmpn, or any other municipality, to cope ef­
fectively with the activities of a national or international crime 
syndicate such as these hearings show exists in the United Stntes. 
One of the main problems is that the most dedicated, "·ell-tmined, 
n,ml well-staffed police force is almost a1"·nys limited legally nnd 
financially to the territorial boundaries of its municipality. For 
example, the Tampa Police' Department is obviously interested in 
and informed about the activities of Snnto Trnfficante. Ho"·ever, in 
the past the depnrtment ,ms mrnble to do anything about Trafficnnte·s 
operations in pre-Castro Cuba; it has no jurisdiction or control of 
his illegal affairs in l\founi and elsewhere in central Floridn. The 
department could only record that he attended the Apalachin meeting­
in November of 1D57, but it could do nothing about this obvious evi­
dence that he "·ns a high-ranking member of a national crime 
syndicate. 
In the light of our experience with the Mafia in our own city's 
underworld; I suLmit for tltis subcommittee's consideration some sug­
gestions for Federal lrgislation which I believe would certainly help 
local ]aw enforcement agencies to fight organized crime more 
effectively. 
I. l\fo1:e ample funds nrnst he obtained by local agencies to recruit 
high caliber police personnel and to retain superior personnel having 
the experience and capabilities to understand, investigate, and prose­
cute organized criminal conspiracies. Because of the demonstrated 
interstate nature of organized crime, Fe<lernl legislation similar to 
j 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 678 
ORGAN 
educational n 
funds and tra 
2. I endor~ 
tion before ti 
wiretnppino- i 
3. I reco;u 
house for criI 
crime and rnc 
tory, to nll loc 
example of tl 
!ntelligence l 
m the 13 short 
informing us< 
and has given 
who are associ 
. f_or exampl, 
1~11trnted a pro, 
I<..nch member 
dividuals in , 
When all of t h
1 
of gamblin,... 0 
these operatim 
this menace. 
I believe als 
our increasino­
gnmblin~ ope~·. 
The Florida 
Jaw enforce111e1 
correlate the d 
ganized crime i1 
This unit toci 
throughout Flo 
ligence data. nh 
member is forw:1 
Bureau, which 
Only sheriffs' 
can become me 
membership are 
honesty and int! 
Lers _ni1d accept 
unnn1mousyote. 
_Intelligence i1 
,ndo operation c 
more helpful in 1 
of orgnnized crir 
beyond-our bor 
wi_th_ those j11ri,; 
c~unmals or rad 
directly into thr 
onr best talents 
eliminate this "Ti 
The CnA m,r~:i-. 
Is there any fox 
