[ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDEN~ J<;'HN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 [ 
SECRET • 
_y· I CSI - Internal Use Only 
Note To: D/CSI 
Subject: JFK Appeal 
3 January 1996 
_.,. 
1. Attached is an advance copy of the memorandum for'. 
the DCI being prepared by DO/IMS (with OGC's. help) 
requesting an appeal of certain ARRE.decisions. The 
memorandum is currently (this a.m.) being redone in DO/IMS·---· 
for technical reasons (wrong font, distribution, etc.). The 
DDO is expected t.o see it this afternoon or tomorrow. Af1;.er 
DO approval, the memorandum will pass through OGC (Smith) 
and CSI for comments before going to the DCI. 
I ,_ .... -· 
2. HRG reviewers are not convinced that the "LI'CRYPT 
issue" (Attachment A) should be appealed. Whi~le the DO --
1 
makes a good case on the particular document in fuestion, 
given.the extensive information onUiaison with· he Mexicans J 
that has been released in documents dated after November 22 
1963, HRG reviewers question this as an appeal issue. I 
discussed the issue with John, but we did not come to a 
final HRG: position. 
3. HRG reviewers support the appeal in Attachment Band 
John agrees. 
4. HRG reviewers can support the appeal of the.four . 
stations in Attachment C. However, we believe that opening 
a Nov/Dec 1963 window for Oswald related documents might be 
a better approach. We are concerned that the State 
Department has not been part of the.discussion--the impact 
@n cove~)and foreign relations of acknowledging stations. 
Although the DO is appealing the release of these four 
stations, it has agreed to acknowledge all of the South and 
Central American stations plus London, Paris, Ottawa, Bonn 
and the German bases. I raised the State.issue with OGC 
((Linda Cipriani)]. She agreed on the need to include State 
in the discussion; once the decision is made to appeal, she 
will contact her counterpart at State. I have·not had an 
opportunity to discuss the State issue with John. 
CC: C/HRG 
Administrative Internal Use Only 
When Separated From Attachment 
SECRET 
CS! - Internal Use Only 
