13-00000 
brought on the shift of control in the foundations 
were handled by a Galveston law firm linked to the 
mob. The stockholders also claim that John Connally 
played a role in these negotiations, albeit a "back­
stage" role. The ANICO case is part or a long his­
tory of Wilson's involvement with the Galveston un­
derworld. 
When he came to the Justice Department in Wash­
ington, Wilson discovered the organized crime divi­
sion looking into the affairs or ANICO. Since then 
there have been no indictments in the case and there 
are reports that Wilson had the ANICO files locked 
safely in his personal office. One source or those 
reports is Stewart Hopps, a former Justice Depart­
ment investigator. 
Some serious conflict-of-interest charges con­
cerning ANICO remain: , .. 
~~The officers or ANICO who were later represented 
-~- by Nixon's law firm, made a loan to a company 
whose top o!!icers are long-time friends of Nixon. 
• The criminal division or the Justice Department 
has been headed by a man with direct links in a 
company the division is supposedly investigating. 
• The company also has clear ties to Nixon's former 
Treasury Secretary, a man mentioned for the Vice­
Presidency, the national chairman of Democrats 
for Nixon, and a key figure in the President's 
re-election scheme. 
Whose Justice Department? 
The ANICO case takes us to a fitting endpoint to 
the story of Richard Nixon's involvement with the 
underworld - the Department of Justice. It is an 
old saw that criminal and criminal-chaser eventually 
become involved in the same business, but in Richard 
Nixon that old saw has become more of a reality than 
perhaps ever before in American history. For Rich­
ard Nixon is a man whose name has been synonymous 
with "law and order" in America for three decades. 
Yet the four-year "war" on organized crime by the 
Nixon administration bears more resemblance to the 
"peace" in Vietnam than a sincere effort to get at 
the mob. 
In a recent interview in u.s; News and World Re­
port (September 11, 1972), Attorney Gen~ral Richard 
Kleindienst hailed "about 1600" indictments or un­
derworld figures brought by the Nixon administration 
in the past three and half years. The Justice De­
partment claims that many of these indictments in­
volve top mobsters. 
Those outside the Nixon administration, however, 
have charged that the government's prosecution has 
been both partisan and selective, aimed exclusively 
at mobsters linked to big-city Democrats such as in 
Newark, and at the "little fish" who are always in 
abundance and who make little difference in conduct­
ing mob business. Time has reported that quotas 
have been established (i.e. one hundred hoodlums a 
month for New York City) and that arrests are "being 
delayed so that future quotas can be filled". The 
New York Times has editorialized about the ease"wfth 
which petty gamblers can and have·been rounded up, 
and wondered aloud if the Justice Department isn't 
conducting more a publicity war than one on organ­
ized crime. A Times report this year found the gov­
ernment was building up a backlog of gambling in­
dictments, saving them for a crucial time during the 
election campaign. 
Indeed, while the Nixon-Agnew-Mitchell team has 
used the spectre of "CRIME" to keep the fear level 
high and to guarantee large budgets and expanded 
powers for their Justice Department, the actual "at­
tempts" of the Nixon administration to cope with or­
ganized crime have resembled a somewhat sinister up­
date of the Keystone Cops. 
For example, up to 1,000 of Kleindienst's vaunted 
1600 indictees in gambling and organized crime may 
have their cases thrown out for somewhat dubious 
"improper procedures" technicalities. A Miami at­
torney named James Hogan has "discovered" irregular­
ities on signatures required for electronic surveil­
lance authorizations. Court-approved wiretaps re­
quire written authorization by the Attorney General 
of a designated representative, in this case Will 
Wilson. Instead of being signed by John Mitchell or 
by Wilson, the authorizations in question were 
signed by aides, thus rendering thousands of wiretap 
authorizations - and the indictments based on them 
- useless. 
Hogan himself is a long-time syndicate attorney 
and a partner of Ben Cohen, a former political boss 
of Miami Beach who figures prominently in the For­
ties' takeover of Miami by organized crime. The 
case in which Hogan made his uiscovery involved the 
busting of the largest heroin/cocaine ring ~n Miami, 
many of whose members were Cuban refugees. Inspec­
tion of various court papers, including wiretap 
authorizations, confirmed "irregularities" in the 
signature - Will Wilson's signature. While resem­
bling his actual handwriting, the signatures ap­
peared as "Wil" instead of "Will". 
While it may seem strange for an aide to misspell 
his boss' name, it seems even stranger that Hogan 
took the case. His normal fees start in five fig­
ures but he has been working on behalf of his court­
declared indigent client for more than two years 
with minimal compensation. While Hogan is known as 
a "very thorough" attorney, it would be interesting 
to find out more about the circumstances in which he 
discovered the "irregularities". 
Even more interesting, perhaps, are the circum­
stances under which Richard Kleindienst was offered 
a bribe of $100,000 to qu11Sh several mob indictments 
In sworn testimony in November 1971, Kleindienst admit­
ted to being offered the $100,000 bribe (which would 
be paid in the form of a contribution to ~ixon's 
1972 campaign) in exchange for stopping prosecution 
against several underworld figures caught in a stock 
fraud case. The bribe was offered by an aide of 
Senator Hiram Fong, a Republican from Hawaii. The 
aide had worked previously with Kelindienst through 
Fong's position on the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
Kleindienst said he refused the offer but he also. 
said he did not realize it was a bribe for an entire 
weekl 
In cross examination, the prosecutor asked Klein­
dienst, "If you had regarded- the conversation as 
something regarding a bribe offer you would have im­
mediately report it, would you not?" 
"Yes sir," replied Kleindienst, "I would have." 
Kleindienst admitted he reported t6e bribe a full 
week later, upon learning from J. Edgar Hoover that 
Federal agents were investigating the case. 
One would expect the Attorney General of the 
United States to be more alert. But what is more 
troubling are reports aired in the Washington Post 
