13-00000 
.. ..~ TOP SECRET DINAR 
NON-BLOC COMMERCIAL RELATIONS - cont'd. 
The delegation is also interested in visiting European 
manufacturers of spare parts for the machines; they were 
principally interested in visiting Spain. The members of 
the delegation are Rene Narbona from the Cuban enterprise 
for the import of machinery, in addition to representatives 
named Respall, Hernandez, Rodriguez, Alemida (sic), Duran, 
and Morales .. They were to ~tay at the Hotel Metropole in 
Brussels. (CIA Madrid IN .69382, 28 November, SECRET NO FOR­
EIGN DISSEM) 
CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES: 
The discovery of a large cache of weapons of Cuban origin, 
announced by Venezuelan authorities on 28 November, provides 
the best evidence in recent years of major Cuban support for 
Latin American subversives. 
The Venezuelan foreign minister has· annoµnced that. Caracas 
will lay formal charges concerning the arms cache before a 
special meeting of Latin American Foreign Ministers scheduled 
for December. Following this, Caracas will ask that the Coun­
cil of the Organization of American States be convoked for con­
sultation on the matter. 
There is definite proof to support the Venezuelan claim 
that the weapons came from Cuba. The approximately three tons 
of weapons include light automatic rifles and submachine guns 
identified as among those shipped to Cuba from Belgium in 1959 
and 1960. There were also mortars, bazookas, recoilless rifles, 
and ammunition of US manufacture. 
Communist documents seized by Venezuelan authorities 
earlier this month indicate that the equipment was destined 
for the Venezuelan , Communists' paramilitary a·rm, the Armed Forces 
of National Liberation. 
The cache was-found on 1 November on a beach in Falcon 
State, scene of the most active guerrilla effort. The Vene­
zuelan Government assumes that the weapons were sent from Cuba 
by sea. This is not confirmed, but Cuban fishing vessels were 
used to transport weapons to South America during the latter 
·part of October, according to several recent clandestine re­
ports. 
For more than three years, the Castro regime has tried to, 
avoid actions that would clearly implicate it in direct sup-· 
port of Latin American subversives. This exception seems to 
demonstrate either the high degree of urgency which Castro 
now gives to his subversive effort,·or his estimate that the 
Venezuelan situation now is ripe for a final offensive .. 
-8-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
