( 
( 
. ' 
b. 
(10) 
(11) 
(12) 
(13) 
Data 
(1) 
f -JON 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATI! .• 
Key facility geographical reference number (obtained from 
Department of Defense Key Facilities List) 
Residence address 
·87F 
.Employment address and any additional data deemed necessary to 
assist in locating subject• 
Field office and Bureau file numbers 
to appear on separate attached card 
Place following data on separate card attached to reverse side 
of ADEX. card being filed in geographical, or unavailable sec dons .. 
(a) Complete description 
(b) Notation that security flash notice ha~ been placed in 
Identification Division 
(~) .Photograph, _with date _taken. It is to be most current or best 
likeness of subject available. 
(d) Dangerous characteristics of subject, including notation if 
subject possesses firearms _ . 
(e) Other data which will assist in locating subject, such· a$ 
directions to residence or employment when- these are unusual. 
(2) Upon posting of security flash notice, field will be furnished· 
f'.BI number and fingerprint classification which should be 
affixed to reverse side of ADEX card filea in geographical or 
unavailable sections. 
(3) Use FD-186 to report information for separate card attached to card. 
Case Agent should fill in form and forward to clerical employee 
designated to post information. Thereafter, file FD-186 in case 
file. FD-186 may be used to note- that subject has been physically 
observedo 
8. Arrangement of ADEX 
a. At Bureau 
Entire index is maintained on IBM tabulating cards, which are printed 
by automatic data processing and transmitted to field. An alphabetical 
breakdown of true names and all aliases of subjects is also main-
tained at Bureau. 
b. In field office 
Index is maintained in three sections: geographical, unavailable, 
and alphabetical sections. 
(1) Geographical section 
After receipt of two cards from Bureau and after descriptive data 
has been added to one, file latter in geographical section (or 
unavailable section, if applicable). Geographical. section is 
broken down by residenc-e address in accord with needs of each 
office, ~ogo, by state, county, city, -Or if needed, into 
boroughs or suburbs° Cards are filed alphabetically .under each 
geographical breakdown. 
Cards will show "unknown" residence for subjects (a) whose 
addresses are not known but prompt location within division 
is expected and (b) whose location in another division is being 
verified. File in breakdown designated "Verification P~nding." 
(2) Alphabetical section 
File duplicate card alphabeticall~ in this section; there is no 
other breakdown • 
(3) Unavailable section 
Cards of individuals who are missing, out of the couniry, or 
imprisoned are retained in unavailable section, broken down into 
three subs~ctions, as follows: 
(a) Missing subjects . 
Subjects are not to be included in unavailable section-until 
action required in instructions fo~ missing subjects is taken 
(see paragraph .E. 3 of this section). If subject is missing, 
word "Missing" is typed on FD-122 after "Miscellaneous." 
.-35 
-4-13-72 
NW'38321 Docld:32989529 '-· 
