[ 
[ 
'-~ 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBV.ER-E 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS 
87B 
Furnish FBIHQ with copy of publications which portray subversive 
character of group or which advocate violence. Ascertain sources 
of funds for publications. When it is operated as distlnct entity, 
a separate investigation should be initiated concerning the publication. 
f. Finances 
Sou·rces of funds and nature of expenditures, in particular whether 
any income is received from or contributions made to foreign elementso 
g. Connections with other groups 
Develop pertinent information concerning ties with other subversive 
elements including material and/or moral support given or received. 
Be especially alert to detect connections with foreign subversive 
·elements or indications of foreign allegiance or control. Also 
determine and report any significant connections or cooperation 
with nonsubversive groups. 
h. Activities 
Describe activities of group. Afford special emphasis to any under­
ground operations or activities involving violence or threatened 
violence. Include any pertinent data showing success or failure of 
organization in achieving its stated goals. 
Infiltration of nonsubversive groups 
a. General 
Whe~ inforraation is received indicating that subversive group is 
seeking to systematically infiltrate ana. control a nonsubversive. 
organization, available data should be submitted by letter with 
recommendations as to initiating active investigation. Recommendation 
to undertake investigation should be supported by available background 
information concerning target organization (including name and 
locations, estimated membership, prin~ipal officers, and nature of 
activities) and resume of extent of subversive infiltration efforts 
(including identities of known subversives ~A10 have joined target 
organization and positions held), provide brief statement as to 
investigation planned. If approved by FBIHQ conduct discreet 
investigation limited to determining and reporting activities 
are related to or in furtherance of subversive infiltration. 
instructions apply to local chapters or affiliates as well as 
organizationo 
b. Caption and preface • 
which 
These 
national 
Captions of communications should show that subversive infiltration 
of target organization is objective of investigation, not organization 
itself, e.g., "Infiltration of (Name of ·target organization) by (Name 
of subversive organization).n All communications prepared for 
dissemination should carry prefatory statement ·which clearly conveys 
this point, e.g., rtThis investigation is directed solely towards 
establishing the extent of infiltration, domination, or control of the 
(Name of nonsubversive organization) by the (Name of subversive 
organization). It is not concerned with the normal activities of the 
(Name of nonsubversive organization)." In addition, preface should 
succinctly show the predication for out investigation of the subversive 
_group involved. 
c. Limitations on investigation 
(1) Other than with established sources, no interviews should be 
initiated with members, leaders, or officers of infiltrated 
o;rganizatioh without prior FBIHQ approval (except where they 
can be handled by suitable pretext). However, this does not 
preclude accepting information volunteered to FBI. 
7 
6-6-73 
NW 38321 -Docld:32989529 P~ge 1848 
j 
.·, 
I 
