13-00000 -· 
: • TOP SECRET DINAR ( 
Europe 
THE COlimtON MARKET CRISIS 
, Th~on lfar,.keL9pears .to . on farm products in the trade ne- , 
e-"'iverted disaster ~or-tne-s1rc-----~-ia tions--aTthough an improvemErn·t1'" 
time in less than a year. The over the initial Mansholt propos- ) 
venth-hour agreements reached als--also leaves much to be desire~ 
•'on agricultural policy on 23 De- from the US view. In general, the ( 
• ~ember are apparently sufficient EEC proposes that, if its levy sys-
I
o discourage De Gaulle from carry- tem operates in such a way as to 
ng out his threat to break up the cause difficulties for the exports 
ommuni ty. Moreover, the Germans of nonmembers, then the EEC Commis-
~nd Dutch succeeded in extracting sion will be called on to propose 
limited commitments from Paris on "appropriate," but unspecified, 
EEC participation in the ICennedy measures. These would not apply 
Round of tariff negotiations. These if it is technically impossible to 
algreements do not cover all the out- determine how much protection is 
~tanding issues, however, and the actually involved in the levy sys-J!Ulnner in which they were reached t 1 em. will leave a residue of bitterness. 
Nor is it certain that major US 
• ~nterests have fared well. 
• I The main agricultural elements 
iln the "package" deal are the reg­
tllations concerning intracommunity 
trade in beef, rice, and dairy prod­
qcts and the rules governing the 
.qommunity farm fund. Their effect 
~s to open the large West German 
market to farm exports of France, 
Italy, and the Netherlands--gen­
~rally at a substantial advantage 
orer the exports of nonmembers. Al­
tpough approval of these and the 
The general relief within 
the community which greeted these 
agreements reflects both the 
depth of the crisis and some op­
timism that the Common Market's 
unity may have been restored. The 
prominent role played by the 
EEC's commission in achieving 
the compromise has in particu-
lar encouraged those who hope to 
strengthen the community's in­
stitutional structure. 
financial regulations is an im-
pprtant step forward, the key ques- In France the conviction 
tion of grain price unification is was evidently widespread, how-
still unsettled. Further considera- ever, that both Bonn and The 
tlon of the formula proposed by Com- Hague were quite prepared to see 
missioner Mansholt has been delayed the French "leave" the Common Mar-
u~til next year. ket, and in the event of its 
• • breakup, to seek alternative 
J The agreement on a Kennedy ties with the Outer Seven. More-
Rpund position is likewise an ad- over, while it may prove beal thy 
Vflnce for the community, but from that Bonn "stood up" to De Gaulle 
~he US view not necessarily favor- in this instance. its motive was 
~ble. On the long-standing problem strongl) colored by a desire to pr1)-
of tariff "disparities," the EEC tect its ineffic.i.en't farmers. Nor 
adopted a formula which would does it augur well for US-EEC re-
~xempt from the proposed 50-per- lations that the French blame the 
d\ent linear reduction in tariffs us for much of the opposition 
a far larger number of items than ---~h._ey encountere_d_. (SEGRE4!-NO,-__ __,i 
th-e-us--tioped fo1. 'Fhe-EEe--pos-i~ron FOREIGN DISSEM) 
27 Dec 63 CURRZNT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW Page 11 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
J' 
