[ 
b. 
[ 
) . 
SECTION 107. -ECURITY INFORMANTS .AND CONFIDE-I.AL. SOURCES 107G 
( 6) 
( 7) 
( s") 
( 9) 
( 10) 
(il) 
( 12) 
Informants shou·ld include in the body of their statements specific 
dates and places; purpose of the meeting or. activity being 
related; identities of speakers and persons present, plus their 
known status in any group; specific activity engaged in by each 
indi vi"d ual present; and comments made by each individual. 
Informant should\ i'aentify each page at the bottom by affixing 
his code name. Any corrections, erasures, changes, or additions 
should be similarly identified. 
Agents I names s·hould never appear on any page. 
Informant should refer to himself in the body of the statement 
by his true name and he should use the third person. 
Agent receiving written st"atement should not make any corrections, 
additions, deletions, etc., thereto, nor should he place any 
markings thereon, such as his initials, date of receipt from 
infor.mant, permanent symbol number of informant, file numbers, 
indexing symbols, eto. 
Do not block stamp or s~rialize. Receipt and serialization 
should be recorded on form FD-306 or on a ch,•. ,neli zing 
memorandum which should contain the applicab: items set 
forth on form FD-306. 
Extraneous material should be kept to an absolute minimum. 
Informants should leave out such items as: 
(a) Any reference concerning the Director and the Bureau 
(b) References to other d9c~ments and statements submitted by 
the informant 
(c) Obvious administrative material, such as operational 
instructions given by contacting Agent to informant 
These data should be furnished orally by informant to con­
tacting Agent who will record the information in memorandum 
form for the informant file. 
Furnished orally by informant 
(1) Contacting Agent should promptly reduce information to writing 
( 4) 
( 5) 
so that it will be accurately recorded as contemporaneously as 
possible with the making of the oral statement by the informant 
to the .Agent. The following items furnished by informant should 
be left out: 
~ ~ ~ 
( C) 
.Any reference 
References to 
the informant 
concerning the Director and the Bureau 
other documents and statements submitted by 
Obvious administrative material, 
instructions given by contacting 
such as operational 
Agent to informant 
These data shouia be recorded in memorandum form for the inform­
an·l; file. 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification. 
Date it at the top with the date ·i;he informant furnishes the 
information to the .Agent. No other d2,te is desired except ·i;he 
date of the meeting or activity which shall be set forth in t~e 
body of the statement. 
Separate statements should be prepared for each meeting or each 
s-eparate acti vi. ty in which informants engage and should be 
dictated by the Agent as if the informant were preparing them 
himself. 
The information, after being reduced to writing, should then be 
read promptly by the jnformant and acknowledged by him by 
affixing his code name on each page. In espionage and foreign 
nationality matters authentication by informants is necessary 
only where future prosecution is possible, 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
11 
6-13-61 
