13-00000 
• 
•. -
' I 
i 
I 
I 
,. 
• • f'," I. 
-·. 
----- --- - - --- . -·-------...:,~ .. -· 
·SECRET 
HR 20-53b(2) PERSONNEL 
L. 
126 
(2) 
(c) there is a requirement to meet operational needs without obligating 
the Agency to long-term employment; 
(d) the nature of the mission for which the individual is being engaged 
precludes his being subject to administrative control or working spe­
cifically defined hours; • 
(e) the individual's primary employer or interest is not the Agency and 
the services the Agency desires from him are supplementary to his 
primary interest or vocation; or • 
(f) there is a long term requirement for personal services which, for op­
perational or security reasons, cannot be performed by Agency staff 
personnel. -
The engaging of contract personnel is subject to the following restrictions: 
(al New contracts, contract renewals, and contract att1endments for in­
dividuals under current or anticipated nonofficial cover, must have 
prior approval of the appropriate component of the Operations Direc­
torate. 
(b) Contract personnel may be engaged only for approved activities for 
which funds have been made available. Funds for these activities will 
be budgeted annually and will not exceed limitations imposed by the 
head of the component concerned. 
(c) Contract employees are subject to directorate manpower controls and 
ceilings established by the Director of Central Intelligence during the 
annual budgetary review cycle. Independent contractors are excluded 
_ from ceiling controls. • 
(d) Contracts will, whenever_ possible, be written and signed. However, 
when special security or operational factors prevent the execution of 
a formal written contract, a memorandum in lieu of such a contract 
may be prepared to document the commitments and obligations of the 
Agency and the individual. 
(d) Appropriate security or operational approvals will be obtained before 
any contractual commitments are_ made to individuals and before any 
disclosure to them of classified information. 
(f) No commitments relating to the use of the services of an employee of 
• another Government agency will be made without prior approval of 
the Operating Official or Head of Independent Office concerned and 
the Director of Personnel. • 
(g) No commitm~nts will be made to contract personnel that appointed_­
employment status will be offered at the conclusion of or during any 
- period of their contract service; without prior approval of the Director 
of Personnel and the Director of Security .. 
(h) Contract employees must meet Agency medical standards prior to the 
approval and authentication of their contracts. A psychological assess­
ment and psychiatric evaluation of those contract employees in whom • 
the Agency may have more than a short-term interest will be carried 
out whenever feasible. 
(1) Independent contractors are normally not required to rrieet Agency 
medical standards; however, if their contract contains any_ provision • 
. which obligates the Agency to provide medical or disability benefits. 
a satisfactory medical examination is required, to include a psycho- 1 _ 
logical assessment and psychiatric evaluation, if nec~ssary. ·_ ; • 
• ( I 
. ' ; . 
-+Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) , , 
' i f' ! 
SECRET 
. , .. ·. •·•'•·."•·•-_... .-., •. ,.,r •. 
"\-,,~·,·,' 
.,: 
; 
l ,_ 
~ -· 
