13-00000 
SECRET 
Mongoose and its antecedent follow-on. He's got so 
many mistakes in there it's not even funny. On the 
first 24 pages there are 19 errors. Most of them 
serious ones. Including calling AMLASH a double agent. 
He doesn't know the language; he doesn't know what he's 
talking about. AMLASH was never a double agent by 
anybody's stretch of tl1e imagination. A lot of other 
stuff, but even he says he's partially protecting the 
Kennedy image as well as everybody else. Even he says 
in there the same thing, that based on his researches 
there's no question that what one knew the other knew. 
They always worked in tandem on all subjects. The 
problem that Goldfarb had, for example - because he was 
one of the Lawyers attacking the Mafia, trying to put 
them in jail - arid he just cbuldn't .... He was sitting 
in my living room and he just couldn't understand, and 
he kept on saying, "how could Bobby tell ni.e to put the 
Mafia in jail when he's working with them?" I said, "I 
don't know how he could do that. You worked for him, 
you tell me." But he did. I couldn't prove it then, 
but if you guys ever release those Charley Ford memo's 
and my memo, at least we've got two statements done 
under oath before the Senate Intelligence Committee, or 
the Church Committee really, where at least it's being 
discussed. I don't see how anybody, on any of this 
stuff, particularly after the Bay of Pigs Operation, 
dealing with the Agency, I don't think anything was 
said or done between the two guys that the other one 
didn't know. They had to. Bobby may have stayed away 
from the Agency up before the Bay of Pigs, but after 
the Bay of Pigs he was always Johnny at the rathole on 
everything. Didn't understand what he was doing 
either, in many cases. 
BL: Sam, is there anything else before we adjourn? 
SH: I don't know. You guys ask and I'll try and answer. 
MW: I've exhausted my .... I've fired my shots. 
SH: I still like reading those two reports, and I agree 
completely, by the way, between the Kirkpatrick report 
and the Bissell rebuttal. I think McCone was right to 
say that the truth is somewhere in-between. I honestly 
think if I had been a case officer, or been involved 
like Jake was, if the President said "Don't go to 
Trinidad find some stupid place to go," I would have, 
really, I would have said "Not me sir, find somebody 
else to do it." That's number one, and that's an 
important one. Because for example, I'm the guy who 
22 
SECRET 
