. ' . 
M. A. Jones to Bishop 
RE: LUNCHEON WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL 
responsibility in the investigation of violations of this-statute. In this 
instance, Customs Service, Internal Revenue Service, and the local 
Niagara Falls, New York, Police Department also have investigative 
responsjbilities. 
Pertinent details concerning this r1.1atter were brought to 
the attention of the Attorney General by our letter dated September 5, 1967, 
with the request that necessary instructions be issued to the "task force" 
personnel that matters within FBI jurisdiction be immediately reported to 
our Buffalo Office. 
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS - CONVICTIONS: 
At the end of July, 1967, we had recorded 189 fewer con­
victions than were recorded during the first month of the prior fiscal year. 
This represents a decrease of 22%, which is primarily the result of two 
factors: (1) shortages of judges and prosecutors which result in over­
crowded court conditions and (2) the policy enunciated by the Criminal 
Division of the Department to reduce prosecutions in Federal court relating 
to juvenile off enders. 
In this connection, our potential for increasing conviction 
statistics was decimated as a result of a letter sent during July, 19 66, by 
Assistant Attorney General Vinson instructing all U. S. Attorneys to give 
primary consideration to the diversion of subjects under 21 years of age to 
local authorities. These instructions are being followed by a 1najority of 
U. S. Attorneys and have hurt us principally in Interstate Transportation of 
Stolen Motor Vehicle violations where experience has shown that approximately 
65% of all violators are under 21 years of age. At the end of July, 1967, we 
recorded 109 less convictions in this category as compared to the first month 
in the previous fiscal year. 
We have for sometin1e been following the practice of advising 
the Attorney General whenever shortages of Federal judges, U. S. Attorneys 
or their assistants exist. For example, we recently sent the following letters 
to the Attorney General/t>?,ing to his attention ·shortages of judges or U. S. •• 
Attorneys in the indic_ated areas: 
9-1-67, Southern DistriGt of Georgia; 
8-16-67, Eastern District of Michigan; 
8-7-67~ District of I(ansas; 
8-3-67, District of New Jersey; 
8-2-67, Southern and Northern Districts of Mississippi; 
7-31-67, Western District of New York. 
(CONTINUED - OVER) 
- 6 - .t -~ t 
NW 3 ~~~-u:321~'.'.li~'.)4 
, Page 521 
I 
. i; 
