NW 
• • 
Memorandum to Mr. w. R. Wannall 
Re: u. s. Senate Select Committee 
on Intelligence Activities (SSC) 
2. Counter-subversion 
In this category Mr. Elliff indicated a particular 
interest in foreign influence in domestic groups and the 
assessment of danger/risk in investigations undertaken to 
detect such influence. He brought up the disclosures of 
surveillances by CIA of Americans abroad at the request of 
the FBI. He also indicated an interest in borderline cases, 
such as those in which domestic counter-subversion 
investigations develop a CI aspect, and was particularly 
interested in the policies and coordinating mechanisms 
affecting such instances. 
3. Positive intelligence collection 
In this category Mr. Elliff was interested in 
the responsibility for collection of positive intelligence 
within the United States and the apparent gap which existed 
in this field. He was also interested in situations under 
which the FBI ~ight target friendly foreign intelligence 
services in the United States for CI attention. 
Considerable discussion was held during the 
conference during which INTD representatives set forth the 
FBI's position and experience in the many areas noted. 
They are being set forth here to illustrate the probable 
scope and nature of the executive session which is being 
planned. Further discussions will be held with the SSC 
staff to clarify these matters and a firmer agenda for the 
proposed 11/14/75 hearing will be developed. 
With respect to the proposed plan, to include 
representatives of CIA and the military intelligence services 
along with the FBI in the proposed session of 2 and one 
half hours, it was pointed out to Mr. Elliff that this would 
not appear to be a very productive procedure. The CI 
perspectives and responsibilities of CIA and the military 
services are much more narrow and generally in a completely 
different context thari the CI perspectives and responsibilities 
of the FBI. These differences, particularly in the short 
CONTINUED - OVER 
Docld: 32989550 72 
