13.:.00.0.00 
• .. -·::.-.. ·:.-· 
Oongressman Ford ask you as I came into the room, because I think this is the . 
crux of our investigation. 
I read the FBI report very carefully and _the whole-implication of the report 
is that, number one, Oswald shot the President; number two, that he was not 
connected with any conspiracy of any kind, nature or description. 
Mr. HOOVER. Correct. 
Representative BoGqS. Do you still subscribe to that? 
Mr. HOOVER. I subscribe to it even ·more strongly today than I did at the time 
that the report wus written. You see, the original idea was that there would 
be an investigation by the FBI and a report would be prepared in such form that 
lt could be released to the public. 
Representative BOGGS. Surely. 
Mr. HOOVER. Then a few days later, after further consideration,. the President 
decided to .forin a e9mmission, which I think was very wise, because I feel that 
the report·of any 'agency of Government investigating what might be some short­
comings on the part of other agencies of Government ought to be reviewed by 
an impartial group such as this Commission. And the Diore I have read these 
reports, the more I am convinced that Oswald was the man who fired the 
gun; and he fired three times, killed the President, and wounded Governor . 
Connally. 
And r also am further convinced that there is absolutely no association be-
tween Oswald or Roby. .There was no such evidence ever establlshe4. 
Mr. DULLES. Or Oswald and anybody else? Would you go that far? 
Mr. HOOVER. Anybody else who might be-:--
Mr. DULLES. In connection with tbe assassination? 
Mr. HOOVER. Yes ; I would certainly go that far. There was suspicion at first 
this. might be a Castro act: • 
Representative BOGGS. Right. 
Mr. HOOVER. We had information that had been obtained in Mexico City by 
another intelllgence agency indicating there was a man who had seen a certain 
amount of money passed to Oswald at the, Cuban Consulate. I think lt was 
$6;000 that was passed. We went into that very thoroughly; .The _man later 
retracted his statement and stated it was not true. He was asked whether he 
would take a lie detector test, and he did. The Ue detector test showed that 
he was telling a He; 
As to the lie detector, I do want to make this comment on it. I have always 
held to the opinion that lt ls not a perfec~ piece of machinery. It ls an·inter­
pretation made by human beings of what the machine, the polygraph, shows. I 
would never want to convict or to send tc;> the penitentiary any person solely 
on the evidence of the lie detector. It ls a contribution in an investigation, 
a. more or less psychological contribution. 
But I have seen individuals who have failed the lie detector test· and who 
were just as innocent as they could be. That particular lead in Mexico City 
was completely disproved; there was no foundat_ion for lt. 
We found no associations between Oswald and Ruby. There has been a story 
printed that Ruby· and Oswald worked together and were close friends. • 
T4ere was no evidence, there was. never any indication that we could find 
that Oswald had ever been in Ruby's nightclub or had had any association with 
him .. 
Ruby comes from .Chicago, he was on the fringe of what yon might call the 
elements of the underworld there. He came to Dallas, opened up the nightclub 
and lt w~ a place where, certainly not the better· class of peopie went, but lt 
wasn't any so-called "joint," to use the vernacular. It was just another night­
club. So far as we have been able to establish there was no relationship or 
coI1tact between Oswald and Ruby or anyone else allegedly involved ln this 
assassination. 
Representative BOGGS. The FBI interviewed practically everybody who ever 
associated with Oswald? 
Mr. HOOVE:a.. It did. 
Representative Booos. You didn't find any indication of why anyone should 
even suspect that Oswald would do this, did you 1 
103 
