f 
L. 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST­
.·c~-:~ ~-: 'i::: 
Limitations on Publications 
50. At some point, probably Just after 27 September, an 
item on the subject of possible strategic weapons in Cuba might 
'have been written for CIA current intelligence publications. It 
could not be.writteri because there was an injunction not to do 
so. By the time that hard information began to come in ear1y 
in September, the USIB principals had become acutely con~cious 
of the dist.inction publicly made by the President between of­
fensive and defensive weapons in Cuba. Aware that they were 
dealing with an explosive political issue and aware also that 
"leakage" of intelligence on· offensive weapons, true or false, 
would seriously limit the President's freedom of action in deal­
ing with what might become a major international crisis, they 
had evolved a system for limiting dissemination of such infor-
.mation. Analysis would -continue and senior policy officials 
would be briefed, but ho materiai woul~ appear in formal intel­
ligence publications without the approval of the USIB principals·. 
These instructions were first issued'orally, and later (on 11 
October) formalized by USIB in the "PSALM" system (X-Ray Fun_nel 
for SIGINT). The key passages in USIB's order were: "Such 
information or intelligence will be disseminated. outside each 
USIB intelligence component only to specific individuals on··•an • •• 
EYES ONLY basis who by virtue of their responsibilities as ad­
visers to the President have a need to know," and "There is no 
intent hereby, however', to inhibit the essential analytic pro­
cess." 
51. It should also be noted that the order not to publish 
anything on missile sites without NPIC· corroboratio~ (Para 44) 
had never been rescinded. The effect-this would have had on re­
porting in late September and October if the other_ban had not 
been in effect is difficult to determine. 
52. These restrictions did not apply to the Checklist, 
but the Checklist writers drew for their Cuban information 
largely on the Cuban Daily Summary~ a compendium of reporting 
on Cuba published by CIA. Since the Summary was affected by 
the restrictions, this practice, imposed by the sheer volume 
of raw material coming in on Cuba·, had the effect of cutting • 
the Checklist off fro~ information on offensive weapons. 
5;3. Moreover, neither· the Checklist group, nor any other 
current int~lligenceofficers, ~new that the possibility that a 
Soviet strategic missile base might be established in Cuba had 
been.raised by the DCI and seriously discussed by the President 
and his advisors more than a morith earlier (See Para 13). In • 
other wdrds the thrust of NSAM 181 had been so watered down by 
-27-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
