13-00000 
• , APR 04 '97 10: 10AM 
b •• 
and accompanying text. 
PAGE 32 
56 Md. L. Rev. 1, *27 
nl70. See Exhibit Three infra p. 43. The CIA originally sought to pos~pone 
the information that is in the brackets. See id. In some cases, information was 
postponed, but substitute language, as provided by the statute, was inserted in 
its place. See id. ~ 
nl71. See Exhibit Four infra p. 45. 
n172. See Exhibit Three infra p. 43. 
- - - - - - - - - - -End Footnotes-•••• - • - - -
The CIA also worries about the status of its former employees and expects ~ 
chac these employees will not reveal the nature of thei;r activities without 
first seeking the Agency's permission. n173 If an individual retires from.the 
• CIA undercover,. does it follow that historical researchers must forever be ~?,-, 
denied access co chat person's true name, especially when she is al_ive and able j 
to answer questions? Does an agent in the clandestine service of clie country. 
have a right to be free from the prying questions of researchers and reporters? 
Does iC make any difference, as in the case of informants. that an agent 
provided only negative information? Should we worry al)out whether a_n agent is 
alive or dead? or does it follow that significant harm might come to the agent's 
family and friends through the revelation of her name? Are we willing, in the 
interest of providing the fullest and richest historical record of the 
assassination, to subject spouses, children, and pa.rents to potential harassment 
or worse? 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - •Footnotes- - - - - - - - - -
nl73. See Melvin L. Wulf, Introduction to Marchetti & Marks, supra note 72. 
In 1972, the CIA successfully sued former agent, Victor Marchetti, to require 
that his manuscript be submit~ed co Che CIA for review prior to publication. See 
id. ac xix. 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -End Footnotes- - - - -
Weighing the pocencial harm to such persons against the public's right to 
know is challenging. We should recall that in 1975, Richard Welch, the CIA 
station chief in Athens, Greece, was murdered by unidentified gunmen as he 
returned to his home from a party at the ambassador's residence. n174 Former CIA 
Director William Colby accributed_ the death to. a magazine account that had. named 
Welch only a [•28] month before. n175 For those agents.who are still alive 
but in retirement, should we take their word that they are ac grave risk? Does a 
lifetime of intrigue have as its cost a retirement filled with uncertainty? 
- • - - -Footnotes- - - - - - - • • ~ - - - - - -
nl74. See Rhodri Jeffreys-Jones, The CIA and American Democracy 211•12 (1989) 
(observing chat wpro-CIA partisans blamed Welch's death on Agency critics who 
had irresponsibly released too much information•); Jeremiah O'Leary, Cover 
Blown, CIA Agenc in Athens Killed, Wash. Star, Dec. 24, 1975, at Al (noting chat 
a United scaces publication's naming of Welch as the CIA station chief who was 
slain in Athens will fuel controversy a.bout tragic consequences of public 
disclosure of CIA personnel). 
P.32/44 
