[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
StG 
11.. 
f. 
• SECTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS 
Subject no longer dangerous or potentially dangerous 
Frequently information is received or investigation de-velops that 
subject is no longer threat to internal security by reason of 
physical condition, defection, or expulsion from subversive move­
ment. Such defection may be shown by lack of activity and •obvious 
disinterest over extended period or declaration of opposition to 
principles of subversive movement. 
When there is sufficient information regarding _subject's present· 
sympathies to conclude he should no longer be considered dangerous, 
request authority for interview or advise Bur~au why subject·shoulu 
not be interviewed. Bureau will not cancel security index card with-
out consideration being given to interview. If, upon interview, sub­
ject proves cooperative, advise Bureau by letter and recommend can-
cellation. • • ••• • 
[In all cases the recommendation for removal from the' security index 
should be made by FD-122 with attached succinct summary ot facts on 
which the recommendation is based. Submit abstract with FD-122 used 
to .recommend removal from security index.] . 
g. Subjects removed from security index solely upon pa.sis of application 
of security index criteria, with no affirmatiYe indication of de-
fection • 
With passage of time, limits specified·in security index criteria will 
operate to remove subjects even though there is no affirmative in~ 
dication. of defection. When reco:rmnending such remova.l, consider if 
facts vrarrant inclusion of subject in section A of reserve index. 
Following procedures are for subjects not being recomme.nded for in­
clusion in section A of reserve index: 
(:q When subjects are removed from security index sole-ly on basis of 
• application of criteria, retain security index card;=;. bearing de-_ 
scriptivo matter on reverse sides; i.e., cards previously filed 
in geographical, special, or unavailable sections. Destroy cards 
previously filed in alphabetical section. Those offices main-
{2} 
. (3) 
taining two sets of geographical cards should retain only one card. 
!-!ark 11cancelled 11 across face of each car.d retained and .file in 
re~erve index, section B . 
Above instructions do not apply to individuals removed from 
security index based upon activity in Nation of Islam. Their 
cards should be destroyed. 
Priority apprehension program 
a. Purpose 
Some security index subjects, because of their training, violent 
tendencies, or prominence in subversive activity, would be more 
inclined or more capable of committing acts against U. S .. in time 
of national emergency than others. Such subjects must be immobilized 
in ieast. possible time. Individuals in ~ecurity index tabbed 
priority I, and possibly priority II, would be arrested first in 
event of limited but grave emergency, probably without arrest of other 
subjects. In all-out emergency, consideration for apprehension will 
be given to all subjects. Decision as to priority of apprehension 
should be based on subject's subversive activities and revolutionary 
tendencies. 
b. Priority tabbing 
(1) Each security index subject should be considered for priority ·I 
tabbing who falls within following cate,ories: 
(a) All top functionaries . 
(b) All individuals considered to be hard-cor~ national and 
state leaders of basic revolutionary organizations and 
leaders of other subversive organizations and unorganized 
groups and individuals v1h·o have indicated _propensity for 
violence and/or have received special training in sabotage, 
espionage, and/or guerrilla warfare, or have engaged in 
underground operations 
(c) Individuals employed in or. having access to key facilities 
NW 38321 .Docld:32989529 Page 1975 .. 44 
(. 
( 
I 
. f 
' ' 
I 
i 
f 
j. 
' 
; 
f I 
l 
< 
~ i 
t 
~ i 
t f 
.i' 
! 
} 
t • • 
' 
f • ; 
t r, 
l ! 
I 
