. . 
!i 
i .. 
t 
l 
.... 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
7. 
s. 
• • SECTION 107. SECURITY INl<'ORMA.J::"TS AND CONFIDEN'fiAL SOURCES 107~ 
f. If the informant receives from outside employment less tha:q $4800, 
all of which is subject to Social Security tax, the amount on which 
he will have to report for Social Security tax purposes, if he com­
pletes a schedule C, is the difference between the amount received 
from regular employment and $4800, 
g. If informant cnmpletes a schedule C, the nature of business of' the 
self-employed r,mst be stated and informants should be instructed to 
use as the nature of self-employment any applicable occupation with­
out revealing connection with the Bureau. 
Stipulation re payments made to witnesses 
a, In trials in which informants, former informants, or other persons who 
were paid sums of money are prospective witnesses, the Bureau must 
furnish the Department[a set of Photostats of the original receipts 
signed by the prospective witnesses, The original receipts and a set 
of Photostats will be transmitted to the field office in whose 
territory the trial will take place.] The office handling prosecution 
must dete:rmine from the[Government) attorney which individuals are 
to be used as witnesses. Thereafter the office should furnish and/or 
cause o·bher appropria.te offices to furnish ·bo the Bureau the follow-
inl information: 
1
1 The. oorre~t, full name 
2 All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
3 The first date of contact by your office 
4 If first contact w~s prior to September, 1944, the names of all 
SAs, SACs, and AS.A.Cs who contacted and may_ have made payme-n·l;s 
(5) A tabulation of all payments, broken down as to the amount appli­
cable to services and the amount applicable to expenses. 
[Although tabulations are not furnished to the Department, those 
prepared by your of·fice will be reconciled with Bureau records.] 
(6) .A listing of any advances, refunds, and ou·tsta.nding balances of 
advances . 
(7
8
} The date of last contact by your office 
{ } Whether the individual has been contacted by any othe:i:• office 
bo Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. 
If no contact was made with a particular individual, the Bureau must 
be so advised 0 
c 0 Where an informant has previously beel'_l used a.nd a tabulation of pay­
ments· was prepared, information for items (5} through (8} need be given 
only from the date of the last trial from which the indi-vidu.al was 
usedo 
d 0 The above information should be ~ubmitted separate and apart from 
correspondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be 
addressed to the at.tention of the Administrati-ve Division, Vouchei­
Un:5.t. Interdivisional correspondence should be addressed to the 
Bureau with copies designated for the interested offices. 
Receipt of unemployment compensation 
a. At times security in.formants and/or sources temporarily lose Ji;heir jobs 
with private industry due to strikes, economic conditions, or similar 
circumstances • .As a result they become eligible for unemployment 
compens·•.tion. ·where unemployment regulations require listing of all 
source,,· of income .as a prerequisite for obtaining unempJ :--,yment 
compens~.tion .and security informan"ts and/or sources who·,:,·!; the time 
are being paid by the Bureau for servic.es ren.dered fail to comply, 
the situation is potentially embarrassingo The Bureau cannot be 
placed in the position of condoning a violation of the state law on 
the part of any informant or source. Each field office must d.ete~mine 
from state unemployment compensation officials effect of unemployment 
compensation laws on paid informants and/or sources. Depending on 
local requirements, informants and sources must be alerted accordingly. 
b. Whenever a paid informan.t and/or- source becomes unemployed or has 
knowledge of impending unemployment, discuss a.11 facts with him and 
submit obser-vations and recommendations to Bureau. Unless aavised 
to the contrary by the Bureau, follow recommended action. Each 
office must assume the responsibility of guarding against informant's 
accepting a Bureau payment that would conflict with unemployment 
compensation laws. At the same time, weigh seriously the possible 
need for.an informant to apply and accept ~nemploymen~ compensatiqn to 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1532 21 
]Q 13 M) 
