13-00000 
SECRET 
SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Cente.;r 
as CIA Facility 
11 
entity which had the willingness and capability to attack 
the CIA would be inclined to inflict the maximum damage. 
Identification of WTC even as a generic CIA facility 
poses an unacceptable risk to this key aspect to CIA 
continuity of operations. 
• (S) Potential Compromise of Classified Communications or 
Technical Collection Platforms: In addition to the 
foregoing physical threat to our communications 
facilities (e.g., the potential to destroy towers, 
satellite dishes and transmitting facilities by terrorist 
act), the disclosure of WTC as the transmit and receive 
site for CIA classified communications to foreign embassy 
sites as well as foreign assets in the field presents a 
significant opportunity for any number of foreign nations 
to enhance their signals and communications intelligence 
efforts at our expense. While the scope and 
classification level of this memorandum does not permit a 
detailed discussion, I am convinced that this disclosure 
would make WTC a target of hostile foreign intelligence 
services. 
• (S) Loss of Covert, Quick Reaction Procurement 
Capability: In support of OTC and other tenant elements, 
WTC uses its Army cover to procure items on a non­
attributable basis to CIA. 11 These items are acquired in 
near real time with minimal delay and direct delivery. 
(S) The official term for such procurements is "SC-1" or "Sterility Code 
1" which means that the tangible items purchased cannot be traced to CIA but 
only to anon-sensitive govern~ent agency. For example, if an officer is· 
assigned undercover to a foreign capital and is undeclared to that country, 
then it would. be most imprudent to carry a personal computer and a cellular 
telephone which could easily be traced to CIA: .At a minimum, that officer 
would be subject to forei9? counter-intelligence surveillance and all of his 
or her contacts compromised (i.e., identified.and neutralized). 
10 
SECRET 
