107I - K SECTION 107. ~RITY INFORM.ANTS AND CONFIDENT:- SOURCES 
2. Communications - use- of symbols 
a. .After Bureau is advised of the permanent symbol, in subsequent 
communications true name of informant should not be set forth; use 
symbol number. 
b. In all communications after the initial letter, Bureau and fi-eld 
offic·e file numbers for informant must be set forth. 
o. In communications between offices, the same procedure is to be 
folJ.ov~ed. 
d. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis for Bureau business or for personal reasons 
should be referred to in initial letter to interested office 
by true name and symbol number if it is necessary for the other 
division to know the identity of the informant. Office receiving 
such letter should make appropriate index cards and plaoe same 
in "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" index. Subsequent 
letters between interested offices may then identify indi-vidual • 
by symbol number only. 
(2) Individuals who leave the division where they have been furnishing 
information and do not plan to return should be immediately 
discon·Ginued, thei_r symbol number, if any, should be eancelledl> 
and their true name should be used in all administrative 
correspondence. 
(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and remains 
active, his identity must still be protected, 
e. In communications, the teletype abbreviation for the field office, 
symbol, and letter suffix 11S11 shall be shown to identify the informant; 
e . g. , "NY 000-S. fl 
f. In communications concerning a potential security informant, the 
name of the p9tential security informant and abbreviation "PSI" 
shall be used; e.g.~ "John Doe, PSI.fl 
g. Similarly, in cqmmunica"tions relative to confidential sources, the 
abbreviation flCS~ should be used; e.g., flRichard Roe, CS, 11 
h. When symbol numbers are assigned to potential security informants, 
the designation should be as follows: flLA 000-PSI. 11 
i. In communications relative to a confidential source having a permanent 
symbol number, the following should be used: 11CS LA 000-S." 
j. In espionage and foreign nationality matters the caption of the 
communication should show in addition a character and the country 
designation (i.e., IS - R for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.). 
This facilitates routtng the mail at the Bureau. 
J". nrnE XHTG 
i. True names and aliases of all informants, as well as the cover name 
[ assigned to them for informants 1 use in submitting their statements, 
but not their permanent Bureau symbol numbers, shall be indexed in 
the general office indices in the same manner as any other name. 
2. These index cards should shovt the file number of the informant and 
such terms as "Informant" or "Potential Security Informantfl shall not 
appear_. 
K. INDICES 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol number index 
a. Alphabetical name index 
(1) In all offices all active potential security and security 
informa:q.t cards are to be kept by the SAC, ASAC, or security 
supervisor consistent with maximum security and best admin­
istrative practice. This is to be known as the alphabetical 
na,me index. 
(~) File these cards in alphabetical order and also include cards 
for security confidential sources. These cards should show 
whether the individual is a potential informant, an informant, 
o~ a confidential source furnishing information on security 
matters. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1519 
14 
5-12-61 
_j 
