• 
" ' ' 
• 
Gebhardt was asked if he felt the Cointelpro was a 
separate entity distinguished from the basic investigation 
and it was explained that the Cointelpro was a phase of the 
overall investigation in any particular organization or 
individual. 
Gebhardt was asked if he felt Congress should enact 
legislation which would set forth specific investigative 
techniques that could or could not be utilized by the FBI or 
other Federal investigative agencies. He was advised in 
Gebhardt's opinion, such legislation should not be enacted, 
and in reply to the question as to why such legislation should 
not be enacted, it was pointed out that as an investigative 
agency, there must of necessity be allowed a certain flexi­
bility because no two investigations are exactly alike and the 
circumstances of such investigations could possibly not be 
related to such Federal law. 
In answer to the question as to how Congress should 
assure the American public that questionable activity such 
as the Cointelpro, was not being engaged in by an investigative 
agency such as the FBI, Seidel was informed that the Congress 
and the American people must rely upon the integrity and 
honesty of the Director of the FBI and the Attorney General. 
It was pointed out that both the Director of the 
FBI and the Attorney General are nominated by the President, 
hearings are held before the various Congressional Corrnnittees 
and finally approved by the Senate. It was further pointed 
out that Director Kelley has recently stated in connection with 
the publicity relative to Cointelpro, that he has no intention 
of permitt~ng this program to be reinstituted in the FBI and 
d. f circumstanc·::§ ever arose which circumstances he could not 
contemplat~~at this time, wherein it was thought such 
g,cJ;:,i.vi-t'ies sh0uld be embarked upon, he would obtain the personal 
approval of the Attorney General prior to such instituting. 
Seidel was informed that Gebhardt was in total agreement with 
this statement of Mr. Kelley. 
Gebhardt was asked as to what his feelings were 
relative to what the relationship should be between the FBI 
and Congress. He was informed that a Senate Oversight 
Corrnnittee was recently established and it was felt that this 
was a good start and that this Corrnnittee should formalize and 
- 3 -
\ NW 38316 Docld:32989617 Page 171 
l - --
