. 
I 
want to get involved in ·any of the gambling businesses and would no't therefore want 
to purchase the hotel. It was at this point that Roselli conceived of the idea ot 
trying to sell the hotel, and approached Kolod and asked if' he would be willing to 
sell it. Kolod replied that i:f' Roselli could make arrangements to sell it he would 
receive a finder's :f'ee. Roselli then turned around and-asked Maheu it he wanted to 
purchase it. Maheu responded that he would and Roselli-turned t}le matter over to 
his attorney Ed Morgan· who then handled the matter unt11 the end; Roselli also 
instigated some talk about the possibility o:f' purchasi.ng the Sands and while he did 
not negotiate it., received at a later date from 1M. Morgan a check for $95,000 vhich. 
represented his finder's fee for _the sale of both the Desert Inn and, the Sands~ · , 
..• :'-- • : 
Roselli noted that While Moe De.litz. was the owner ot the ~Sert Inn., -he· '.
0
: 
did not negotiate with him because he found him less agreeable than K'olod. He said 
that he had some minor dealings with Dalitz but none ot them related to matters 
concerning the las Vegas hotel industry. 
With regard to Fd Morgan., Roselli met him in the.- middle 50·• s. Sin·ce that 
time Morgan has represented him in different I.as Vegas interests. He noted that 
Morgan did not represent him in his Friars• Club de·rense(DU"b Elid ar;r.a.nge f!g;p Jim 
Cantillion., a Los Angeles attorney t;p handle' the matter). He said that he had no 
trouble vith M:>rgan's handling ot the Desert Inn finder's fee, since he trusted 
Morgan impllcity. He noted that Morgan had arranged for John Roselli to be represent 
by Tom Wadden,. his present attorney. This representation first began on the appeal 
from the Friar's Club. • • • 
Roselli indicated' that his only present interest in Las Vegas concerns. 
his pol.dings in the gift shop at the Frontier hotel. His involvement there started 
in 1967 when he had an arrangement vith Mr. Friedman.,; This set-up did not work.out· 
and Roselli resigned as President ot the gift shop. Thereafter he u:ade an arrange­
ment with a Mr. Breen whereby he would f'u.rnish Breen with money am iildemnif'y him 
against any losses if' Breen would run the gift shop. This arrangement has worked 
out fairly well an~ he continues to receive his share ot the profits each year from 
the gift shop. He mentioned that·it was his opinion that Breen had been poorly 
treated by the Hughes enterprises., since Hughes first purchased the Frontier. He 
recalls, at his last meeting vith Maheu, asking Maheu to lend Breen $60,000 for the 
gift shop. Maheu said he would get back to him but never did. Ultimately a loan 
was arranged through Perry Thomas at·. the• Valley Bank of Nevada. 
Since i961 Roselli has· seen Maheu only once;. And while he does not recall 
the date ot ~hat meeting he remembers that it wu in Los .Angeles before Maheu bad 
terminated vith Hughes. He recalls that Maheu was in Los Angeles at the time while 
his wite wu having a foot operation., and that he cal.led Roselli to have supper. 
Roselli has no recollection of the conversation that the two had at supper other 
than that they discus1;5ed., as noted above., the possibility of arranging a loan tor 
Breen at the Frontier'Hotel Gitt Shop. 
He said he has known Peter Maheu since the middle 1950's and that be vent 
to Peter's wedding re~eption. His only involvement vith Peter occurred whenever. L 
Robert Maheu wanted a message conveyed to Roselli. He recalls no ~eeq'l:e~ Svhro-,.tto; 
discussions vith Peter Maheu. • 
He indicated be knev nothing about Iarry O'Brien., Tony Hatsis., or Jack 
Cleveland. Similarly, he bas no recollection ot ever having met Bebe Rebozo., and 
knows ot the person only through newspaper articles. 
With regard to his appearance before the Frontier Hotel grand Jury in_ 
------------- . . .- .. -~.~~ ·;_ ~-:·.:::~ .· 
mt 50955 Docld: 324236:30. F~gt·3·,;i --s:.:·?t 
