SECRET 
- 2. 
Mr. Kent has also served as the field representative for 
a Latin America Division funding and cover mechanism. Mr. 
Kent's past service in a nonofficial cover status has well 
qualified him for his present Headquarters assignment at 
a time when nonofficial cover is taking on even greater 
significance in Agency operational planning. 
c. Personal ~haractcristics and q~alifications. 
In fulfilling his various responsibilities, Mr. Kent has 
demonstrated that he is imaginative, perceptive, energetic, 
and a person of sound, independeP.t judgment. lie is extreme足
ly versatile and has a first-rate mind. Invariably, when 
a crisis situation arose and talent had to be mobilized with足
in the Division, Mr. Kent was one of the first officers 
whose name came to mind. lie writes quickly and with a 
polished style. During the past year, he was called upon 
on two occasions to draft papers concerning Agency involve足
ment in Chile which were used by the Director and the Deputy 
Director for Operations in their presentations before the 
Senate Select Committee. Mr. Kent speaks and writes fluent 
Spanish in addition to speaking very good Italian and some 
French. 
2. Mr. Kent meets all of the general and specific 
criteria for promotion within his category. He has a total 
of 24 years of Agency service, of which 23 years have been 
involved with operations. He has served overseas tours in 
Panama City and Caracas in addition to his domestic assign足
ments in New Orleans, Miami, and Washington, D.C. lie has 
successfully developed and managed new programs in the 
Covert Action and the Nonofficial Cover fields in which he 
is presently engaged. Mr. Kent is a man of enormous 
energy who is eager to take on challenging assignments. He 
has yet to reach his reak within the Agency. Mr. Kent has 
demonstrated that he is an effective supervisor, having 
served as Desk Chief, Acting Branch Chief, and Section Chief. 
3. Mr. Kent is entering into competition for promo 
tion carryini.; the strong rccommcudation of this Division 
as well as that of CMG/~OC. His rotational tour with the 
Nonofficial Cover Branch will end in July 1977. Because of 
family medical reasons, Mr. Kent is presently subject to a 
medical hold. Upon completion of his tour with CMG/NOC, 
he will return to the Latin America Division with a 
projected assignment in a senior staff position. 
Ri'f rf s~7a~o'";-
Chicf 
Latin America Division 
_ _; SECRET 
