13-00000 
, , APR 04 '97 10:10AM 
PAGE Jl 
56 Md. L. Rev. 1. *26 
therefore, is whether an agency that seeks to protect an individual, regardless 
of the quality of the information provided, can substantiate the claim that harm 
will come to that person as a result of revealing her name. When an agency has 
failed to do so, the Board has released the name. nlEiB The record of events 
surrounding the assassination will never be complete until we know what blind 
all~ys are not worth pursuing. As any good investigator knows, eliminating blind __ / 
alleys is critical, because the elimination provides additional certainty about· 
who knew nothing, a fact that can be helpful in discerning who knew something. 
In this context, knowing that an informant knew nothing, at least by her 
statement, is valuable itself, given the complexi,;y of the conspiracy theories 
surrounding the assassination. 
- ·- - - - - - - - • - - - - - -Footnotes- - - - - • -- - - - - - - - - -
nl67. See 44 u.s.c. 2107(6) (2) (1994) (permitting postponement of public 
disclosures when there is clear and convincing evidence that the •name or .. 
- identity of a living person who J?rovi~ed confidential information to the Un~,, 
States . . . would pose a substantial. risk of harm to that person") ,. see also· - , i 
supra notes 102-106 and accompanying text. 
nl68. The McCall document cited above, and found at Exhibits one and Two, 
infra pp. 39-42, is an example of the Board's release of an individual's name 
after determining that no harm was likely to come to the individual and that 
public interest in the disclosure would be high. See supra notes 165-166 and 
accompanying text. 
- - - - -End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - • 
Spying is a feature of modern foreign affairs, and there can be no doubt 
that, as with informants, we owe some protec,;ion to those individuals employed 
in the clandestine service of the CIA. n169 understanding how our clandestine 
services operate and what information they did or did not provide ie critical to 
the assassination story. For example, the CIA sought to protect a considerable· 
amount of information involving the use of double agents to infiltrate the 
Soviet Embassy in Mexico City. As Exhibit Three makes clear, the Agency 
originally wanted to protect broad sections of a message sent on November 29, 
1963, one week after the murder of the President. n170 The CIA believed that 
releasing the information would compromise the [*27) double agents and 
reveal the scope of the Agency's efforts against the former Soviet government. 
Yet, in terms of ,;he story of the assassination, knowing the quali~y of the 
effort directed against the soviets in Mexico City was considered crucial. As 
Exhibit Four reveals, only weeks before Lee Ha"ey Oswald was arrested for 
xilling President Kennedy, Oswald had visited the Soviet Embassy in Mexico 
seeking a visa that would allow him .to return to the Soviet Union by way of 
Cuba. nl71 The Board opened most of the information that the Agency previously 
wanted to postpone, and where the Board determined that disclosure would be 
harmful, it relied on substitute language., which is handwritten in Exhibit 
Three. nl72 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
nl69. The JFK Act acknowledges the obligation of protecting the identity of 
intelligence officers. See 44 u.s.c. 2107(6) (1) (A) (allowing postponel'l\ent of the 
release of JFK documents if chey involve pul:>lic disclosure of •an incelligence 
agent whose identity currently requires protection"); see als~ supra note 102 
P.31/44 
v 
