SECRET Betsy palmer 
Review o:f Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - XVIII 
April 24, 1978 
Volume IX - January 1963 - JulL1963 
1. Cable to Director :from Caracas, dated Feb. 22, 1963 
FRANCISCO SUl1HEZ QUINONES wishes travel to Maimi to attend JURE rally 
24 February. In view Ref B (WAVE 2462) in:fo that SU.arez communist and also 
MR? member, DCM has asked i:f any info that Suarez was undercover agent for 
MRP or i:f he may be double agent working :for Castro. 
2. -Confidential Controlled Dissem. dated 3 June 1963 
Title: Plan o:f Manuel Ray Rivero t0 Infiltrate the Ranks o:f the 
Central Intelligence Agency 
On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros reported on meeting o:f JURE exec. board 
in his. home attended by, among others, .Antonio Arias. During meeting, 
Cisneros said it was mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a 
trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with regard 
to CUba and i:f possible infiltrate this man: into CUba. Cisneros also said 
JURE planning lea.f'let drop into CUba which will include such matters as Ray's 
Ma.ni:festo against the U.S. Government and against the CIA. 
3. Cable to Director from Paris, dated 19 June 1963 #77272 
Ray in Paris - contaceed by Jervay. Tiay driven to airport by Alberto 
Baez with whom Ray spent much time a...'1d who seems to be closest to Ray 
anong his contacts in Paris .. Ray in Paris and Brussels :for purpose of 
turing Franqui ·and _l\rcos to agents in place, or defection, Also Cabrera. 
Ray convinced Cubans here disillusioned -with Castro. Asks for upclate of 
list o:f personnel and address~~£~ all Cuban embassies in Europe to be 
uassed to him in San -,Juan and ~,m~ in Pa..--is. i-:ants to be trained in 
~hort wa,.ye system between himself and ~UMBLE 6 and station felt these 
were good ideas and could be done. 
h. Me:rao for the Record from Alfonso Rodreguez, dated 19 June 1963 
subject: :Manolo Ray 
Ray's attitude towards CIA - feels that the Agency has in the past purposely 
and active~' attempted to destroy hi;:n as a poll tical leader and has proof 
of at least one CIA officer plotted en. th certain Mill' officials to remove him 
from the Mrp as a condition for CIA assistance to that organization. 
Ray cannot oe overlooked in the struggle for Cuban freedom. "-- of all the 
Cubans I have met, he is the raost purposeful, nethodical, as well a.s the most 
experienced clandestine operator .. " 
5, Confidential rontrolled Dissem. dated 27 June 1963 
Re: Creation of an Intelligence Corps within the JUIB 
~eliable information from forner ~ecel 1u:rrzy member (F) active in clandestine 
movements. JURE IJeeting s6aoout 30 March 1963 at home of journalist 
Antonio .4rias said JURE national executive board had created an Intelligence 
Corps ·w:i. th JURE whose ftmction -..,ras to infiltrate JURE members into various 
SECRET 
