\ i 
3. Testimony of Kennedy Administration Officials 
In addition to examining the actual nature of the Mongoose operation (discussed 
above at p. _), we took considerable testimony from Kennedy Administration offi­
cials on the question of authority for a Castro assassination in the Mongoose 
period. Set out in the section below is the testimony of the Kennedy Administra­
tion officials principally involved in the M)ngoose operation and the Special Group 
Augmented, all of whom testified the assassination plots were not authorized. These 
were McCone, the Director of CIA and a member of the Special Group Augmented; 
General Taylor, Chairman of the Special Group Augmented; General Lansdale, Chief of 
.Operations for ~1ongoose; Special Group Augmented members Bundy and Gilpatric; Secre­
tary of State Rusk; and Secretary of Defense McNam.ara. Their testimony focused on 
the principal issues raised by Helms, including: (1) whether any authority for a 
Castro assassination existed; and (2) whether they had knowledge of any Castro assassi-
nation activity.* 
In the succeeding section we discuss the August 10, 1962, 
of a Castro assassination was raised. 
a. Testimony of McCone 
~'7 t;:;zt~ 
meeting where the subj~ 
McCone testified that at no time during his service in the Kennedy Administration 
as DCI (1961-1963), did President Kennedy, Robert Kennedy or any member of the Cabi­
net or White House staff discuss with him any Castro· assassination plans or operations. 
(McCone, p. 44.) 
As discussed above in greater detail, McCone, the Director of Central Intelligence 
and Helms immediate superior, testified he did not authorize and was not informed 
about, the assassination activity. (McCone, p. 3.) 
*In addition, the Committee questioned the Kennedy Administration members as -to the 
likelihood that an assassination order might have been given to Helms by Robert 
Kennedy through a "back channel", outside the normal chain of comm.and; however, 
Helms subsequently appeared and testified that no such order was ever-given by 
Robert Kennedy. (See p. above.) .. 
