V. RECOMMENDATIONS 
Approved by 
Drafting. 
Subcommittee 
10/8/75 
(with possible reservation 
as to language of s·tatute) 
During our long investiga.tion of. assassination, a number of_ vit.3.1 issues· 
came ia,to sharp ·focus.· 
Above all, stood the question· of assassination. Our recommendations on 
other issues should await the completion of our continuing investigations and· 
our final report.· But we need no mqre infonnation to convince us ~hat a:f~at 
ban against assassination should be written into law. 
We condemn assassination. and reject.it as an instrument of American 
policy. Surprisingly,·at present there is no statute making it a crime to assas­
sinate a foreign official outside the United States. Hence, for the reasons 
set forth below, the Committee recommends the prompt enactment of a statute mak-· 
ing it a· Federal cri~e to commit or attempt an assassination, or to conspire·to_ 
do so. 
A. General agreement that the United States must not engage in assassina-
tiona Our view that assassination has no .place in America's arsenal is shared ~y 
the Administration, 
President Ford, in the same statement in which he asked this Committee to 
deal with the assassination issue, stated: 
I am opposed to political assassination. This administration 
h3s. not and will not use such means- as· instruments of national 
policy e Presidential Press Conf er_ence, June 9, 197 5, Weekly 
Compilation of Presidential Documents, Vol. II, No. ·24, p. 611. 
The witnesses we examined uniformly condemned assassination. They denounced 
it as immoral, described it.as impractical, and reminded us that an open society, 
. most of all, runs the risk of the assassination of its own leaders. As President 
Kennedy was report~d to have said: 
11
we can't get into that kind of thing, or we 
would all be targets." (Goodwin 7 I IB /7 5, p. 4) 
The current CIA Director and his two predecessors testified emphatically 
that assassination should be banned. Thus, Colby said: 
Hlf 5095.'i Docid:3242352.'i Page 202 
