~-----------------------~i-
I,' 
Q 
7 
Ir: ;J.cldition to these immediate actions, we should mc.:..~,c: 
prcp.:ir;:cti, .. ms now so that we are able to seize opportunities for n1orc 
positive action towards our ultimate objective of the overthrow of 
the C::i.stro/ Co1nmunist regime. These opportunities may arise ' 
either as a result of Bloc action in other parts of the world, as a 
result of aggressive moves (or isolated hostile acts) by the Castro/ 
Communist regime itself; or as a result of uprisings or internal 
conflict within Cuba. We 0hould·prepare contingency plans to deal / 
with these .situations. 1 
1 I i 
bur contingency planning should include preparations for large- 1
1 
scale use of Cubans inside Cuba; more extensive air activity including, 
both high and low level flights primarily directed toward surveillance 
and collection of intelligencc 1 and which may also have the effect of 
embarrassing the Castro government and keeping the Castro forces on 
continual alert; retaliatory :measuresD as appropriate, including the 
imposition of a POL blockade; harrassment of Cuban officials in other 
countries; severance of communications to Cuba; major acts of 
sabotage on shipping destined for Cuba and on key installations in 
Cuba; intensive naval patrols; and 0 ultimately. the use of U.S. 
military forces. 
We tShould be in a position to respond with open military support 
(to include such items as materic:. acivisors 0 training, and Special 
Forces support and~ if nece.s sary, up to the full range of military 
forces). to a request for 2.:::::::~z::::.:::-.:.:i from any anti-C::..stro/Communist 
group or groupa in Cuba which de::1.onstrate an ability to survive, 
which threaten the present regime. and whose afms are compatible 
with those of the U.S. \ 
To the extent feasible. U.S. military forces employed against 
Cuba should be accompanied by ·u. S. militarily-trained free Cubans 
and by the armed forces of those Latin American nations desirous of 
participating in the U.S. effort. 
7] l& SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32276061 Page 36 
