87D f~"''rION 87. SEClffiITY IlffESTIGATI 
Correlation ~f-her inve stiga tious with the 
reserve index 
.. 
) 
•• 
securi_ty index and 
Individuals investigated by the D11renu under any characte~ against 
whom subver:::ive inforrnaticn i!:, develoued must be consta.ntlv borne in 
mind for inclusion in the s;curity in~cx and/or reserve in~ex. 
(1) Espionage and foreign int~lligcncc investi~ations 
Subjects of ther~ investigations must be included in the ~ecurity 
index anc./or th~ ·-:.serve index if they meet ·the stanclards for 
incluHion thereih. It is the responsibility of the investigating 
Agent and field supervising official to make appropriate recommen­
dations for prepnration of the security index card and/or the 
reserve index card, ,~enever appropriate. 
(2) Security of Gove~nmcnt employees (SGE) investigations 
Subjects of all SdE investigations agairist whom subversive de­
rogatory information has been developed must be considered for 
inclusion in the security index and/or reserve index. 
The Aaent c~nductlng investigation in the office covering the 
subject's residence must refer such cases ~o the field super­
visor in charge of th3 security index program for apprdpriate 
handling. Copies of reports showing disloyB~ information 
must be submitted to the field office covering the subject's 
r.esidence, wheh developed by any other office. 
When an individual who has previonsly been inYestigated under 
the SGE chartcter is the subject of·a security index card and 
•·is. still employed by the Federal Government or is b,J).ng consic1.ered 
for- Yederal employment, the dual character of "Secu•·: ty of Govern-
• ment Employees" and the character of the .subject' s , .cu.rity ca.se 
should be used in the report being submitted. This ¼ill insure 
that the reports are referred to the appropriate desks for super­
vi~ion at the Bureau, as well as in the field. Those reports 
should be written according to the standards prevailing for SGE 
reportso 
Disseminate these dual character reports the same as any other 
s~curity report. Representatives of other intelligence. agencies 
~equesting reports showing the actual SGE investigation should 
·be informed to di·cect the request to their Washington heaclquartcrs 
"for referral to the Bureau. 
(§) Atomic Energy Act,.U. S. Information Agency applicant, depart-. 
mental applicant, Bureau applicant, and other Bureau investigations 
Subjects of all above investigations against whom subvarsive in­
formation has been developed must be considered for inclusion 
in the security index and/o~ the reserve index. In each such 
case the Agent c~nducting the investigation in the office 
covering the iubjectfs residence ~ust refer the matter to the 
Jield supeivisor in ch~rga of the security index program for· 
appropriate handling. 
Copies of reports sho:·1ing disloyal information mur.t be sub­
mitted to the office· covering the subject's res.idence, whenever 
developed by another office. 
70 
s-:.~-68 
L NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
