5. Information on the background of the Cuban is fairly extensive, 
but it is inconclusive._.re is knovm to have been a 11imber of anti-
• Castro organizations 1"this country. There are al:'J,reports that 
his mother was imprisoned in Cuba at one time. "i°z:t"re are other 
episodes in his life that suggest intelligence involvement on his part 
with some hostile service, but this is not yet definitely established . 
. • 6. The Office of Sechrity has had at times a second informant 
in this case. His reporting has tended to confirm reporting by the 
principal informant. 
t. 
7. There is ,conclusive evidence that the Cuban expressed . 
interest in certain 201 files in the Agency, and there are good grounds.u­
for believing that the RID female employee delivered at least one such 
·file to the Cuban while she was still in RID. There is also evidence 
that the· female employee in SB Division has continued in frequent 
contact with her friend,. the ex-RID employee, and the Cuban. On 
one occasion, she served as intermediary for contact instructions 
from the Cuban to O/S~s principal informant. The informant has no 
knowledge, however, of any other requirements that may have been 
levied on or satisfied ·by the SB employee. Neither does he know of 
the extent of contacts by this couple with other Agency employees 
except social contacts. 
8. The Office of Security has been running this operation for 
over two years, in an effort to obtain conclusive proof of its intelli- . 
gencc nature. CI Staff has been kept informed. The FBI, which 
was informed of the case at an early stage, has declined to take re­
sponsibility for it, on groW1ds that it concerns CL.\' s internal security. 
As a result, the Office ofSecurity has been inhi bitcd in the actions 
it can take against the Cuban suspect. On the other hand, Security 
has not taken any action against Agency employees for fear of com­
promising the operation. 
9. 1t would appear to me that the Office 0£ Security has dallied 
with this case long enough. Apparently unable through positive measures 
to resolve doubts about the case. O/S has followed, the course of watch-
• -✓ 
ful waiting, hopin_g the Cuban would take precipitant action himself that 
would give us the evidence we seek. In the meantime, our knowledge 
of the relationship between the Cuban and the several other current 
Agency employees vri.th whom he is known to have contact continues 
- 2 -
• OOOGJ 
