CHRONOLOGY OF OSWALD'S VISITS TO THE SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES. 
September 26, 1963 
Thursday 
September 27, 1963 
Friday 
Circa 10:30 A.M. 
10:37 A.M. 
~; 
""\,e.,\, 
circa 11: 30 A.M. 
circa 
o}l 
1tl t'(( 
t.( ·.'llP 
12:15 P.M. 4,J2-,' 
""1~.:e 
circa 12:45 A.M. 
A man claiming to be Oswald vists the Cuban 
G)Embassy between 10:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M. 
The visit probably occurs around'. one o'clock. 
"Oswald" is 'discribed as 5' 6
11 
tall, blond hair. 
suriken cheeks, very thin, aquiline nose, very 
straight eyebrows, approximately 35 years old 
and wearing a light blue Prince of Wales suit. 
He was said to look very cold with a hard face 
and a penetrating cunning way of looking at you. 
"Oswald" was seeking an intransit visa to Cuba 
on his way to Russia. He displayed documents 
that showed his membership in the Fair Play 
for Cuba Committee and the American Communist 
Party .. He was told that he would have. to 
first obtain a visa to Russia before he could 
be issued an intransit visa. He is ~lso told 
that he should return to the Cuban Embassy 
with his passport and a copy of a photograph 
in order to fill out the visa application. 
"Oswald" calls the Soviet Military Attache (SM.A) 
~with whom he speaks in Spanish. He tells the 
SMA that he is looking for a visa to Odessa. 
The SMA tells him to call the Consulate. "Oswald" 
asks for directions to the Embassy and recieves 
\ I 
them. 
"Oswald" calls the Soviet Consulate and asks to 
h speak to the Consul in Spanish. He is told that 
-the Consul is not in. He is told that he can 
call back at 11:30. "Oswald" says that he is 
looking for a visa to Odessa. 
"Oswald" goes to the Russian Embassy where he 
once again exhibits the documents he has already 
0 shown the Cubans as well as other documents such 
as his and Marina's marriage license. "Oswald" 
discusses his situation with someone at the 
Embassy and comes away with the understanding 
that everything would be expeditiously handled. 
Someone from the Soviet Embassy calls Azcue 
-
whom he is aware of because of what "Oswald" 
has told him, and tells him that they have to 
get authorization from Moscow to grant him a 
visa and that it will probably take four months. 
~ "Oswald" returns to the Cuban Embassy with the 
