POVARSITY 
QRGLAD 
AEEGGHEAD 
LPCAPTAIN/LPCANAL 
E
f' - .. ' •• ...., 
R ' ' . \ '.:. 
. \ 
~- ~ ~? ('i (\ f~ 
1 l\Ul'd 
TAB D 
Page 6 
This proprietary publishing firm in.the Far 
East provided cover support for one Agency 
employee who introduced foreign books and articles 
to Far Eastern media sources. In 1975 the firm 
was de-registered and certain assets were sold 
to a former employee of the firm who re-registered 
the firm under a different name. The Agency 
employee who was provided cover by the entity is 
still active in the Far East under a new cover 
and the only contact with the purchaser is in 
the interest of maintai_ning the cover story of 
the active Agency employee. No support is 
being extended to the re-registered entity. 
This activity provides support to a foreign 
based asset to permit him to publish a foreign 
language journal. The activity was inaccurately 
and inappropriately categorized as a proprietary 
when an Administrative Plan was prepared in 1971. 
The.error was corrected in 1975 when the activity 
was accurately categorized as a controlled sub- • 
sidy. The operation continues with Agency 
subsidy support. • 
The U.S. proprietary portion of this book pub­
lishing activity was _legally liquidated in 
1968. Funds remaining after settlement of all 
liabilities were transferred overseas to other 
parts of the operation and were used to meet 
approved operational expenses. Some of the 
remaining stock of foreign language books was 
given to a ~leared and witting contact who had 
ser~ed without compensation as an officer of 
the proprietary mechanism. The remainder was 
shipped overseas to be distributed by the 
overseas mechanisms of the operation which are 
not proprietaries. They continue to distribute 
IDoks with Agency subsidy support. 
·This proprietary, which provided management and 
accounting services for Agency activities in 
Europe, was disposed of in 1974 by removal of 
all assets from the entity and transfer of the 
corporate shell to the U.S. businessman who had 
backstopped the company without compensation. 
No support has been given to the entity or us~ 
made thereof by the Agency. 
--i1+ 
....... 
...... 
1-,-
' 
