• SECRET 
Betsy paJ.mer 
Review.·d:f Manuel Ray y Rivero Files Volumes I - XVIII 
April 6, 1978 
Volume VI - August l, 1961 - June 30, 1962 
l. Cable to JMWAVE from Director 
Date: August l, 1961 
FBI conducting investigation on MRP and Ray and Director indicates he 
needs to know purpose o:f investigation to respond properly. 
Dispatch from Chief of Base, JMWAVE 
Date: August 4, 1961 
subject: Debriefing of Father·Bastarrica 
Father Bastarrica recently arrived f'rom Guba as a political exile. At a~ 
luncheon meeting, he reported as follows: 
MRP formed in Guba around 26 July 1960. Organizers were Dr. _t.Jnalio Fiallo 
Gonzalez, Dr. Antonio Fernandez Nuevo, Reynol Gonzalez, Humberto Perez Herrera. 
All these men belonged to group called Accion Democratica. The name of MRP 
was suggested by Raul Cbibas and in itself it does not constitute a party 
or group but rather a coalition of several small groups, which were the 
following: 
a. The 20 May group, led by IJ.anuel Ray 
b. Accion Democratica, led by Dr. Fiallo 
c. Accion Verde Olivo, led by Dr. Rufo Lopez Fresquet 
d. 30 November Movement, led by David Salvador (never really joined) 
e. Chibas 1 group with Jorge Beruff and Felipe Pazos 
f. Dr. Valdez Pino, in asylum in Embassy of Peru and belonged 
to Accion Democratica. 
Father Bastarrica 1 s opinion of Hay is that be had no wa;:r of judging whether 
Ray is Communist or Marxist. lacks quality of leadership because he 
does not publicalJ.y hold to a definite political, social and economic ideology. 
He appears to agree with every person be ta.]J(s to, never arguing with them 
or opposing them, aJl of which shows be has no ideology and makes him a 
very dangerous man. Is extremely aniili tous for li..i.mself, wi. th great desire 
for power. 
3. Memorandum for Chief, WH Division, dated 10 October 1961, from Warren S. 
Yauger, Subject: General - Cuban Matters; Specific - Manuel (Monolo) Ray 
Planning Boa.rd of Puel°t9 Rico announced on 9 October 1961 that Ray has 
accepted position as consultant to that Boa.rd. Boa.rd is an important agency 
of Puerto Rican government, attached to the Office of the Governor. Has 
broad powers over econor:ri..c and social planning end is active in exercising 
these powers. Ray to receive $12,000 per year. Ray presently in 
Venezuela but expected to arrive Puerto Rico ,-i. thin a week. 
SECRET 
