13-00000 
. . 
-
tion in recent years that might have been. introduced in the Congress to make 
an attack upon the President a Federal offense? 
Mr. BELMONT .. I do know that there is legislation presently pending. 
The CHAIRMAN. Since the assassination? 
Mr. BELMONT. Since the assassination. 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes. But had it been considered in recent years? I know it 
had at the time of other assassinations, but so far as you know were there any 
recent legislation to that effect? • 
Mr. BELMONT. Mr. Chairman, I must plead ignorance. I haven't done research 
on it, and I just don't know. 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes. Well, we can find that out very easily. 
Representative FoRD. Mr. Chairman, just the other day in the House of Repre­
sentatives a bill was approved giving Federal officials the right to take certain 
action when a chief of state from a • foreign country was within the United 
States; a broadening of their authority when they had a suspicion or they had 
some reason to believe that au attack was being made on a foreign dignitary. 
At the time it went through the House I thought of the same question you 
just raised, and I wondered whether there were any specific legislative matters 
pending before any committee on this particular point. . 
Mr. BELMONT. I am sure there is a pending bill because my recollection ls 
that it was called to our attention-I cannot P,inpoint it for you-but I think 
there is pending legislation now in this matter. 
Mr. McCLOY. I noticed in some Law Review article recently reference to·the 
fact that previous bills had been introduced but had gone into the wastebasket. 
The CHAIRMAN. That is hue. 
Mr. McCr.oY. In respect of other incidents. 
The CHAIRMAN. When the emotion died down. 
Mr. McCLoY. When the emotion died down, that is true. 
I .have some further questions. 
The CHAIRMAN. Have you finished, Mr. Stern? 
Mr. STERN. I want to get one thing established that came up yesterday. Mr. 
Belmont, yesterday the Commission was· interested in determining, if possible, 
when Agent Hosty recorded the interviews • that he had tak~n on October 29, 
November 1, and November 6. He wasn't certain, except that he thought it had 
been done after the assassination. Have you caused a check to· be made on that? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes; we checked with oui' Dallas office, and they do not have 
a specific record of when that information was recorded. 
Mr. STERN. Was it recorded in substantially the same form in some con­
temporaneous communication? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes; within a day or two, I think on November 4, if I recall 
correctly, the fact that Hosty had . talked to the neighbor of Mrs. Paine and 
had located Marina Oswald, was sent in by AIRTEL. 
Mr. STERN. You might refer to ·Commission Exhibit 834, page 9, items 64 and 
67, just so the record is straight. 
Mr. BELMONT. Item 64 is an AIRTEL frow .the DaJlas office to the h~d­
quarters dateo October 30, wherein Hosty reported this interview that he had 
had with the neighbor of Mrs. Paine. . 
On November 4 the Dallas office reported by AIR'.l'EL the results of his con­
tact with Mrs. Paine on November 1, so ·that the results of his interviews were 
incorporated at that time, October 30, November 4, but the actual insert for the 
report was not prepared until some ti~e later. To the best of Hosty's recollec­
tion it was after the 22d and prior to December 2, but he was already on .record 
by these AIRTELs. 
Mr. STERN. Thank you, Mr. Belmont. 
I have no further questions. 
. The CHAmMAN. Mr. McCloy. 
G 
Mr. McCLOY. I have one or two questions. 
Mr. Belmont, you do know the charge has been made by some that Oswald 
was what is called a secret agent. Do you have any information whatever 
hat would cause you to believe that Oswald was or could have been an agent 
ran informant of the FBI? 
26 
