. , 
I • 
... ., ...• ... ' 
·-· . ... ... 
SECRET 
• -~ I 
LIN also stated that Jaffe should include in his 
letter the fact thc1t he ·would be willing to leave his United 
States Passport in Hong Kong an.cl when Jaffe indicated to L+N 
that he< did not think that would be necessary, LIN stated 
that maybe uthey would not want you to come·into China with 
·a U~S. Passport." ,... S-· ••• ,· 
According to Jaffe, Liij is a very brilliant 
individual ·well-versed in Soviet-Chinese relations and in 
United States relations with China and the Soviet Union. 
LIN appeared to be more concerned with Sino~Soviet relations 
than with the United States. LIN commented that Cyrus Eaton 
is very much interested in bringing China and the-United 
States together and stated that Eaton had.sent him an article 
from a Cleveland·newspaper on anti-China hysteria whipping 
up in the United Stateso ,... 5,.. 
In commenting on the recent r;~·wspaper accounts of 
the speech of LIN Piao, Vice Primier, Communist China, LIN 
stated that he thought it was premature to make any judgment 
on the speech in its entirety;. however, LIN ranked Y.!.P..0 Tse-tung, 
91-IOU En-lai, and LIN Piao almost equally~---- LIN state.d that 
he did not for a minute think that they believe the United 
States or the Soviet Union would launch an atomic attack. 
They do believe the Soviet Union is a serious threat but 
they do~"'.r:i.ot think either the United States or· the Soviet 
Union plan to launch a premature• attack. on·.them. In talking 
about moderates, LIN stated that CHOU E"n-rai is not a 
moderate; he is a.tacticiano LIN stated.that MAO probably 
is the only man who really understands the Chnnese people 
and believed MAO felt he had to start the.Cultural Revolution 
bec.ause there were people in China who were doing things for 
their o,m self interest and t·.IAO had to take action, including 
the unleashing.of the Red Guard to prev.ent thiso LIN indicated 
that he felt l·fAO has been successful. LIN stated that the 
Soviet Union is much like the United States but MAO k..riew -<;;;-
"'· ..... 
3 SECRET 
.. . 
38326 Docld:32989704 Page 236 -.. " 
