13-00000 
Control in Time-Sharing Systems 
Fermin Caro de/ Castillo 
6043 Westridge L8ne 
Fort Worth, Texas 76116 
•A time-sharing installation (like every computer environment} is exposed to the seven major 
dafl!Jflrs: fire, water, theft, fraud, sabotage, equipment malfunctions, and human errors." 
, .. 
Introduction 
This article has as its main objective to furnish 
and define some methods and provisions for control 
and security in a computer time-sharing environment. 
It is evident that computer time-sharing has be­
come very popular during recent years, More and 
more confidential information is being handled by 
these systems, creating an urgent need for strong 
measures of control and security. 
Description of the System 
The service provided by a single computer to many 
telecommunications terminals has been called "com­
puter time-sharing". With this type of service each 
user shares simultaneously in the processing capa­
bilities of the central processor. This new com­
puter facility makes this service available to small 
companies and/or other users who have little need 
for their own computer. 
Computing services that may go under the heading 
of time-sharing include: 
Comercial computing; text editing; databank 
information retrieval services; application 
services such as colleges' records, inventory 
control, payrolls of small companies, and ac­
count receivables; administrative messages: 
switching and collection services; and more. 
Among the great number of time-sharing users are 
hospitals (Welch Hospital, one of the biggest in 
Europe, has acquired the large ICL 1904S computer 
with 7020 terminals), banks (Gosbank, the national 
bank of the USSR, has ordered two large-scale Honey­
well series 600 with 100 terminals), schools and 
colleges (British schools and colleges have started 
using terminals), airlines (Continental Airlines 
uses the Sonic 360 reservation system with 550 on­
line terminals). 
Trends 
The growth in computer time-sharing has been phe­
nomenal in recent years in spite of a short business 
recession between 1970 and 1972. Time sharing was a 
broker's dream in the '60s; many companies realized 
its potential, entered the market, and failed be­
cause of: one, strong competitive pressure, and two, 
because of the countless thefts and violations suf­
fered, The highly competitive situation benefited 
the user in regard to pricing, but the offsetting 
consequence of lower profits caused a high casualty 
rate among these companies, As a result, the number 
of time-sharing firms dropped from 150 to 50 between 
1%9 and 1972. 
A few of the companies which survived and which 
account for most of today's time-sharing business 
are Rapidata Corporation, Teletype Corporation (a 
subsidiary of AT&T), Tymeshare Incorporated (the 
largest independent firm and second only in size to 
IBM and Honeywell ~ime-sharing operations), and IB~I 
Jerry Dreyer, executive president of ADAPSO, an 
·association of data processing service organization~ 
estimates that one time-sharing company out of threE 
was profitable in 1971, two out of five in 1972, and 
probably three out of six in 1973. Nowadays, this 
computer facility is coming back to its original 
trend, and it is expected that the number of com­
puters with terminals will grow from 32% at the end 
of 1971 to 45% at the end of 1975, with the average 
central processing unit driving 15 to 20 terminals. 
One consultant, Creative Strategies of Palo Alto, 
California, predicts that time-sharing sales by 1970 
will increase to 2 billion from 331 million last 
year. By 1975, says ADAPSO's Dreyer, time-sharing 
will account for 1/3 of the $4.5 billion computer 
services industry. 
Technological Advances 
Most important technological advances have been 
achieved recently on on-line terminals linked to 
central processors. Some of the improvements made 
include solid state keyboards, which have greater 
reliability and lower cost; visual display methods, 
which incorporate more capacity, economy, and aes­
thetic appeal; non-impact printing techniques, which 
provide faster, quieter and more reliable opera­
tions; improved lower cost memories; more powerful 
logic capability; and faster and more accurate 
modern techniques and improvements in central proc­
essor software. 
This is only the beginning. It is foreseen that 
in the future the equipment itself will change in 
nature and will probably not be recognizable as 
terminals per se. Rather, t~rminals will be modu­
lar systems consisting of the required input/output 
functions for specific jobs, built around basic con­
troller and communication interfaces: in many in­
stances, terminals will become special purpose de­
vices. 
Hazards • 
A time-sharing installation, like every computer 
environment, is exposed to the seven major dangers 
of fire, water, theft, fraud, sabotage, EDP equip­
ment malfunctions, and human errors. Fire is con­
sidered to be the greatest threat to magnetic tapes. 
Water does not constitute an important hazard t.o 
magnetic tapes, but it does to computer installa-
• 
