87F 
(b) 
' . '['ION 87. 
·e 
SECURITY INVESTIGATI 
Subjects out of country 
·, 
·• 
Place cards for subjects who have departed from U. S. or ·(· 
Puerto Rico for foreign country in this subsectio~ unless 
they should be canceled in accordance with instru·ctions below 
under permanent depar~ure. 
(c) 
Investigation of subject not yet included in·ADEX may be in 
progr~ss at time subject departs for foreign country~ If 
facts otherwise warrant, submit FD-122 recommending inclusion 
in unavailable section. 
If subject is out of country, type words "Out of Country" 
.9n FD-122 after "Miscellaneous•" If foreign addre~s known, 
include on FD-122 in space provided. If subject is only . 
known to be in certain foreign country or is only known to be 
traveling abroad, include this on FD-122. If subject's 
current employment abroad is known, include on FD-122. 
Follow case of any ADEX subject who is out'of country at least· 
once each year for verification of address and to determine 
if subject has returned. Place appropriate stops with 
Immigration and Naturalization Service to be advised of 
return. 
Imprisoned subjects 
Place cards of imprisoned AD~X subjects in unavailable· section. 
Type word "Imprisoned" on FD-122 after "Miscellaneous." 
Identify institution in which subject is incarcerated in space 
provided for residence. Arrange with confinipg institution to 
be informed of subject's release. Set tickler shortly prior 
to expected release to verify. After release, determine whether 
subject should be retained in ADEX. 
When submitting recommendation for unavailable section, ( 
include words "Unavailable Section" in upper right portion of 
FD-122. Do not include former residence or former employment. 
ADEX cards for unavailable section will bear code letters in 
upper right portion designating proper subsection. 
Upon receipt of two cards from Bureau, check for accuracy, 
place required descriptive data on one, and file latter in 
unavailable section. File other card in alphaqetical section. 
When missing subject is located. ·or subject who has been out 
of country has returned or imprisoned subject released, submit 
FD-122 showing current residence and place of employment. 
Type words "Remove from Unavailable Section" after "Miscel­
laneous." When subject in unavailable section is located in 
another division, submit FD-128 to Bureau and new office of 
origin. Type "Remove from Unavailable Section" in space to 
right of addres_ses. Bureau will send revised cards to new 
office of origin. 
c. Special interest subjects 
Certain classes of individuals could be of special interest ·depending 
on the particular circumstances of a national emergency. These include 
the following: 
(1) Espionage subjects 
In the event of a national emergency, special ~onsideration should 
be given to these individuals to insure that investigation or any· 
36 
4-13-72 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1936 
