SECRET/SENSITIVE - 6 -
Brewer believes that the primary purpose of this operation was t0 render 
•• cornm~nfCatio11s as·sistnnce to the local police. The secondary purpose 1vas 
to monitor cro1vcls sc- as to protect CIA installations. (For example, i'IPD 
had obtained some information that various dissident groups planned to picket 
CIA Headquarters and planned to harass Director Helms during a planned.speech.) 
All of these CIA operations were verbally approved by Headquarters Support 
Branch (~Ir. Cryer). Total period of time devoted to monitoring dissident groups 
with 1'1PD ( for al 1 three occasions) 1vas about five days. Brewer is not aware of 
any instance where the Washington Field Office tried to penetrate any dissident 
groups. 
Collection of Information on Dissident Groups 
During the period of the demonstrations in 1969-1971, all field offices and 
resident agents were requested by Headquarters to look out for literature 
and other informatior- which might in any way affect the CIA. No conscious 
intelligence gathering of literature 1vas requested. Items to be looked for 
included campus news clippings, etc .. This project was not a conti11uing one 
over the three-year period when most demonstrations occurTed. It was rene,ved 
from time to time as flare-ups in activity occurred. Mr. Brewer does not know 
the quantity of material collected or the use made of that material. The only 
information that Bre1·er knows was collected by the Washington Field Office 
consisted of the weekly intelligence sumi:1ary prepared by MPD. Headquarters 
specifically asked Brewer to get the summaries (either Jack Cryer, Tex Mills 
or Curt Rivers) , and they 1vere fonrnr<led to Heaclqu..1 rte rs. No effort was made 
by Brewer to obtain j nforiaation concerning any dissident group's intencied 
activities. 
Police Cover Operations 
Mr. Brewer indicated ,hat Washington Field Office agents have received police 
cover from the following police departments: 
2. 
Metropolitan Poli.cc Department (r,1PD) During the May 1971 demonstra-
tions, !-PD furnished !D's to those CIA agents monitoring the crowds along 
with police officers. These ID cards were in fact used. No other police 
'cover was obtained from MPD. 
Fairfax Ci tv Police nenartment: In connection 1'.'i th Operation SIESTA 
(which included a break-in at the photographic studio in Fairfax City, 
operated by a suspected Castro Agent) cover was obtained from the police. 
One CIA agent was given a Fairfax City police badge in case some one 
walked in on the break-in. The badge 1vas never utilized. Brewer didn I t 
actually remember obtaining this badge, but it 1vas obtained by some one. 
SECRET/SE:JS ITI VE 
NW 50955 Docld:32203834 Page 11 
