r .. 
The Women's National Abortion 
Action Coalition 
e. 
111'h3.t the National Office of WONAAC pledged 
$1,500 to the defen~e of the seven women arrested in 
Chicago because of their alleged activity in abortion 
counselling> referral!> and procedure ..• 11 
11
Tb!!t the NONJ\AC .Hational Office maintain-, 
at all times, a fund-raising stafr efficient enough 
to meet the needs of the emergency fund at the same 
time it raises suf'ficlent capital to maintain the ·a-aily 
expenses of the National Office and staff ... 11 
Confidential tlource number two related that the 
evening plenary sessj_on of WONAAC occurred on July 15:, 1972, 
and it was :tmmediately apparent that the Socialist 
Workers Party - Young Soajalist Alliance (SWP-YSA) group 
dom:lna ted the meeting. Independent women who wanted to make 
statements during this session were voted down by SWP floor 
leaders and these t->arne persons continued to vote as a bloc 
on all issues. 
The group of independent women from various geogra-
phic areas, that is those women who were not associated with the 
SWP or YSA, went together after the plenary session was adjourned 
and considered the problem of how tp handle the SWP leaders. 
While these women were not political realists i~ their goals, 
they did believe in working throughout the existing system 
rather than functioning with the SWP in their eventual goaJ. 
of' revolution. 
. 
It was decided t~at the independent femini~ts would 
no longer continue hass.ling within WONP.AC. They did not want 
to have decisions for them being structured by a male dominated 
group. rrhey also decided thcit money being collected b;y WONAAC 
in.the name of abortion law change was not being used for that 
purpose, but rather to sustain members of the SWP-YSA. 
The Sunday morning session) July 16, 1972, was 
labeled "Meeting to Discuss Internal Hassles. 11 About 35 
independents attended and a few numbe·r of SWP-YSA members a.n.d 
sympathizers were present. Independents there were from New 
Haven:, Boston, Detroit, New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, and 
San Fk~ancisco; 
-6-
CON!1'IDENTIAL 
NW 88321 Dodd:3298954£ Page 257 
