-41-
Station unaware if assassination was pre­
meditated or whether it constituted bungled 
abduction attempt. In any case, it important 
to bear in mind that move against Schneider 
was conceived by and executed at behest of 
senior Armed Forces officers. We know that 
General Valenzuela was involved. We also 
near certain that Admiral Tirado, Army Lt. 
Colonel and Navy Captain witting and involved. 
We have reason for believeing that General 
Viaux and numerous associates fully clued in, 
but cannot prove or disprove that execution 
or attempt against Schneider was entrusted to 
elements linked with Viaux. Important factor 
to bear in mind is that Armed Forces, and not 
retired officers or extreme rightests, set 
Schneider up for execution or abduction .... 
All we can say is that attempt against Schneic 
is affording Armed Forces one last opportunit) 
to prevent Allende's election if they are will 
to follow Valenzuela's scenario._ 
(Santiago 598, 22 October) 
F. Post October 22 Events 
The shooting of General Schneider resulted immediate] 
tion of martial law, the appointment of General Prats to\. 
I 
as Commander in Chief, and the appointment of General Va~ ue] 
of Santiago province. These measures, and others taken,'. 
Task Force to make the following initial judgment: 
With only 24 hours remaining before the Congre 
runoff, a coup climate exists in Chile .... The 
on General Schneider has produced development~ 
closely follow Valenzuela's plan .... Consequent 
plotters' positions have been enhanced. 
(Chile Task Force Log, 22 Oct~ 
On October 23, Director Helms reviewed and discussed 
It was agreed ... that a maximum effort has beer 
and that now only the Chileans themselves can 
successful coup. The Chileans have been guide 
point where a military solution is at least Ot 
them. (Task Force Log,·-24 Octal: 
. . I 
•. 
H \. i. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 477 
.. 
' .\ :. i. • ·~ ~,, .... :-: 
.-,41'though i 1 
an abduction a1 
constitutional: 
Dr. Allende wa! 
died the next < 
