.... 
... ' 
• 
r'AR A·•7? 21 H , I':! .._ 
Foreign Support for Activities Planned to.Disrupt 
-or Harass the RcpubJ _ican National Convention 
sm~fARY A~D CONCLUSION: 
Indications.remain limited, thus far, of foreign efforts 
to.inspire, support or take advantage of activities designed 
to disrupt or harass the National Convention of the Republican 
. _ .. P.arty in San Diego, 21-23 August 1972. The concept of coordinated 
international support for domestic activities in the United 
States ¼as generally endorsed at the ~ecent World Assembly for 
Peace and Indcp~ndcnce of the Peoples of Indochi~a; however, the 
Conference issu~d no specific call for international support of 
dis!uptive actions at the American national political conventions. 
BACKGrrOUXD: 
At the So¥iet-controllcd World Assembly for Peace and 
Independence of the Peoples of Indocl1ina, held in Versailles 
from 10-13 February 1972, tl1erc ¼as mention of American plans 
for dcnonstrations at both the Rcnublican and Dc~ocratic 
National Convcri.tions. The fin::il ~lraft. resolution from the 
Conference's "Action Cornnission" contains an appendix submitted 
by knerican dclcgntes whose goal was to secure global coordina~ion 
for domestic actions in the United States. It calls for inter-
national support to six wee ks of domestic an ti,,;ar act ion·s and 
demonstrations, fron 1 April to 15 ~ay 1972, and concludes with 
the statc:ncnt: "This cat.lpaign will· .lead up to the Der:10cratic 
, ___ P~a~rty.Convention at Miami on July 9, 1972, and the Republican 
Party Convention in San Diego on August 21, 1972." 
The final "Resolution of the Paris World Assembly for the 
~~tb-and Independence of the Indochinese People'' of 13 February 
1972 ;· drafted ~y the "Political Commission•• states: 
"_In the United States particularly, the prates t against 
·the war is voiced more and more strongly, under various 
·forms, such as draft evasions, desertions, resistance, dcGon-
------~ttations which now affect even the soldiers. The Assemblv 
calls for support to thdsc progressive and fntiwar forces in 
the United States, and asks the goverm:icn ts· to grant asyl un 
to deserters and to support their right to ~cpatriation. 
All together, the pcople·s of the world will efficiently help 
to inipose on the U.S. GovcTnmcnt-the restoration of peace, 
and independence and frccdo1:1 in Victnar.i, Lao,s, and CLlmbodia." 
. l I : i I 
I 
OOSSJ: 
NW 38296 Docld:32989ti-24 Page 148 
