[ 
( 
( 
... _ .. ,.' ,. 
q. 
( 
SECURITY 
'1 
INVJ~S TIG.A TIO:t-l ..,. 87D 
[{10)) Dissemination at the Bureau 
There arc some situations in which disseminatio~ is made at the 
Bureau instead of in the field. In the majority of instances, 
information received by the FBI should properly ~e furnished 
immediately to some other agency within the executive branch of 
the Government so that the respon::-ibilities of the other agency 
tnight be fulfilled properly. Gare must be taken, however, not 
to disseminate information to any fieid branch of. another 
Government agency where such a procedure is deemed inad-risable 
because of the inadequacy of security measures in that branch. 
In- these instances the data shouJ.d be brought to the immedicJ.te 
attention of the Bureau for dissemination at the SOG. An 
example of the latter is, of course, the Atomic Energy Gommissio;, 
whic~ receives reports oniy through the Bureau, as noted in 
section 87D 7c (4) of this manual. Information relating to 
foreign tr?-vel plans of security subj-ects is disseminateg 
to interested agencies, including the State Department, only 
at the SOG, as set out in 87D 6b (4). Dissemination is also. 
made _at the SOG to the State Departm~nt, unless it appears 
undesirable, in those cases in which subjects have been 
indicted for vi9lations grounded on subversive activities. 
Dissemination in these cases is made to preclude these subjects 
from utilizing the fact they obtained a passport to refute 
allegations of subversive connec~'ons. The State Depaitment, • 
therefore, will be in possession of data concerning a defe~dant 
should he att~mpt to utilize this tactic in such an action. 
b. ·nata developed concerning individuals ~hQ are not within the Bureau's 
investigative jurisdicti~n 
{1) Members of the armed forces 
. r 
The Delimitations Agreement between the FBI and the armed forces 
intelligence agencies states that the responsibility assumed by 
one organization in a given field carries with it the obligation 
to exchange freely and directly with other subscribing organizations 
all information of mutual interest. 
·-··· ... , 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page -679 
Sla· 
5-ll-64 
