• 
COPY 
t 
,, 
With reference to the proper controls over wiretapping and the installation of microphones! you will ~ecall that I advised you 
that back under the administrat onof' Attorney General Clark I •• recommended that all Government agencies refrain trom wiretapping unless there was specific approval in each instance by the Attorney General who is the chief' law o;ff'icer of the Government. I repeated ,· the sa.1ne recommendation to each successive Attorney--Gen81'al following the adm1nistra.t1on or Attorney General. Clark. • ., 
• • • I have alwa.ys f'el.t that there ws a very lax control· 1n the handling or-wiretapping by Gov~r.nment agencies. I am the only head 
of a Government investigative agency who does not have the authority- •1 
to authorize a viretap, but under the system 'Which I personally set . : up. Thereforei l"oques-cs for wiretaps are sent by me to the Attorney· ... : General for his approval or disapproval. I know that no such system . •. : 
fs followed in other branches of the Government and, in fact, in mall1' • .. 
insta:tlces subordinates quite far down the line ot authority tap tele- •. 
phon~s 11i:thout the s:peo1t'1c approval ot tha head· ot tho ageney and 
cartainl.y vithout specitic approval ot the cabinet otticer in charge ot the department. • . ' . • . ~.. . . ' 
1 I still .reel quite strong1y that no· Government agency :.;houlci: • • 
tap ·a; telephone unless it is spaoitically approved 1n each instance ~r.1 ~· the .t\ttorney General. This would cortainly circumscribe promiscuous.···. ·,: 
wiretapping on the part of Government agencies and 'W0111d centralize y :i . : . 
1n one place, the Attorney General's ottice, a r"cord o~ any phone tap• • 
-which have been placed by a Government agancy. • .. , 
· As you are a.ware,. 1n the case or the FBI we do not request . _·: 
,,,~· phone taps oxcept in cases involving kidnaping and espionage. This has been predicated upon my theort that ·when the life· ot an individual 
or the life ot the Nation 1s 1n -peril a phono tap·•· is justified tor· 
i.~telligenoa purposes as an;r information obtained over a phone .tap. • cannot be used 1n tho trial o~ a crhdnal case. " ,, 
\ NW 221. 
