' l 
! 
l 1 
\ 
l 
l 
I j 
1 l 
! ( 
[ 
[ 
SECTION 107.<.lECURITY 11H'ORMA1:TS .iUTD C01H'ID-HL SOURCI'.;:.: 107M 
4. Subfiles 
a. A subfile is req1i1red on each infor;nant who sub1nits st-1:te,:,ent1~, wri·l.;ten 
or oral, exoopt in espionage or forei~n nationality Matter~ where a 
subfile is necessary only _in those ins·ta.nces involving pousible 
prosecution, The original of ea.ch statement, whether personally 
written by the informant or furnished orally and redu~ed to writing 
by contacting Atent, should be filed in this :iubfile, ·Ext>outed form 
FD-306 or i~ channelizing memorandum containing all- a.pplicablc i terns 
set forth on form FD-306 should be st~.;,lecl to ·l;he or:igina.l of e~ch 
such stateme!lt. 
b. Tioles may be punched in original statements of informants for secure 
filing, but care muwi; be taken to prevent o bli ter.;,.tion o:f any portion 
of statements or notations thereon. 
5. Channelization 
Excerpts from the informant 1 s statement are to be included in the regular 
investigative ci~se report when informa.tion of ·v-alue is submitted. Form 
FD-306 m:;,y be used to disseminate this information to the case fi1e in 
lieu of a channelizing mamorandum if desired. If so used, prepare copies 
of FD--306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy 
of the informant I s s·tatemen-t, being channelize cl. Channelization should. be 
noted on original Ji'D-306 and on all copies under "Rem8.rks. 11 
6. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of following submission of reports 
in security cases 
For instructions concerning ·t;he destruction of channelizing memoranda 
in security oases following submission of reports, see[Manual of Rules 
and Regulations.] 
7, Dissemination of information 
Information submitted. by informants, potential informants, confide1;1:cial 
souroes, or sources of information should be reported to ·the Bureau and 
interested offices and other ~.genoies whenever necessary by the appro­
priate means of communication under captions showing the subject matter 
of the information. 
8. Correspondence 
Correspo:nclence submitted ;, security informant and potential security 
informant matters should strictly limited to the adr-,inistrative 
handling of the informant ... nd should not contain inf 01: •. ;;ion more prop-
erly furnished to the Bureau under a substantive case ;tion. 
9. Maintenance of files 
a. All pending files on security informants shall be ·maintained. under 
lock and key under the personal super-vision of the S.A.C, A"S.A.C, or field 
supervisor as the informant indices are maintained and described in 
subsection K. 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may- be maintained ln the open 
files section, provided there is no disclosure of the informant's 
identity on the statements. 
c. .A.11 informant files should be maintained in such a manner as t0 ·' • • •:ure 
that all information furnished ·by a particular informant wiJ.l .r 
immell.iately avail a bl: ,,- on the request of the Bu:ceau. 
d. In addition, these -~ . '.:,: should be maintained. in such a fashion , t 
the identities of thr: cases in which an informant has furnished. 
competent evide.nce o~.n be furnished immediately to the Bureau by 
simply referring to the file of the informant and without the necessity 
of conducting extensive research, 
10. Use of informant by Department - filing correspondence re 
From time to time, the Department expresses an interest in using a partic­
ular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witness. 
As a result, there will be correspondence showing ·this situation between 
the Bureau and. the field. Place copies of all such correspondence in 
the informant I s file, Occasionally such correspondence may be <rolu­
minous and apply to more t-han one informant. In tl'wse cases; surnmari~e 
the information concerning each particular informant a.nd place the summary 
in the appropriate informant's file. 
11. Form FD-238 
Form FD-238 (printed on pink paper) has been approved for use in security 
informant and potential security informant files. It is to be used in 
the nature o~ a table of contents or as an index to show where in the. 
file particular data can be found, This form is to::; kept as the top 
17 
4-18-62 
{NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1536 
