'I . ·, 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALI.ST 
• I \ : (I:._• .. ·• 
63. At the Special Group meeting on 9 October, NRO's 
first recommendation was "A U-2 probe over the suspect MRBM. 
site as soon as weather permits." This referred to the area 
targeted by COMOR near San Cristobal (see Para 48). The 
• operation, wh:ic h was to be· supported by ELINT collection 
aircraft off the•coast, also was designed to pass over one· 
of the SA-2 sites which was thought to be most nearly opera­
tional. Thus the secondary objective was to determin~ the 
status of SA-2 defenses in order to measure the risk involved 
in getting com~lete U-2 coverage of Cuba as rapidly as 
possible. NRO's second recommendation was therefore condi­
tional: "If there is no SA-2 reaction to the initial U-2 
sortie, maximum coverage of the western end of the island 
·by multiple U-2s·simultaneously, as soon as weather permits." 
(There were also certain other recommendations for low level, 
oblique, and FIREFLY missions~)· 
64. The Group. gave first priority to the San Cristobal 
mission and recommended to the President that he approve it. 
The President gave his approval--presumably learning of. the . 
San Cristobal reports at this time-~and the mission was 
immediately mounted. It was delayed by weather, however, from 
10 through 12 October. On that date operational control was 
transferred to SAC. Theie ~S no reason to believe that ·the 
tra~sfer in any way delayed launching the mission, whic~ SAC 
flew on 14 October. The pilot did not fly the prescribed 
track, but took a course at an angle to it. Fortunately the 
planned and actual paths crossed over San Cristobal, and the 
primary mission was accomplished. 
,65. After this mission had. been approved, but before it 
had been flown, CIA received on 10 October Navy, photog·r·aphs 
taken two weeks earlier of the Soviet ship Kasimov off Cuba. 
These photographs showed clearly identifiable IL-28 crates, 
which later showed up in U-2 photography of 17 October--along 
with a number of others which must have come in on unphoto­
graphed ships--at San Julian airfield in the western tip of 
the island. The information appeared. in the Checklist of 
11 October. 
··66. During this interim period 1 the DCI briefed the • 
CIA Subcommittee of House Appropriations on 10 October on 
the build-up, including the IL-28s. He also commented on 
• MRBMs essentially along .. the lines of his cables from Nice 
(para 30), adding that there were many experts who did not 
believe the Soviets would make such a move, but that he 
differed with them. He told the Subcommittee that he had 
authority for an overflight in the next day or so. General 
-31-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
