( 
( 
-~ ' 
SECTION 10. SECURITY IN'FORMA.UTS Alm SOURCES. 107D-F 
4. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters where contact is 
rtl?.intained on a periodic basis dependont on circumstances, contact 
potontial informants personally at least once every tw.o weeks. 
5. Ad-.rise BurE;au of progress being made at least every six months. Sub­
mit letters (FD-401) concerning potential informants who .are not being 
paid on Bureau authorization on UAC:a basis; include summary of infor~ 
mation furnished during past six months and certifications rega~ding 
stability and indoctrination against disclosure. Follovi form ir..dicated 
under § 1071, i tern 3b, be low, except those i terns concerning payr~ents. 
6. Post record of all contacts with potent~al informants. 
7. During contacts with potential informants, if it develops individual 
does not have n~cessary capabilities, disconti-nue efforts. 
8. Informants may raise a question concerning their position if it becomes 
knov:n publicly they are affiliated ~·rith subversive organization. In . 
such case, he may b~ told that his cooperation is matter of reco~d in 
FBI and if some question arises concerning his loyalty we will consider 
making facts of his cooperation knonn to his employer or to responsible 
individuals. Before taking steps to advise al;l.yone of potential infor-• 
mant 1 s or informant's cooperation, obtain Bureau authority. 
9. From first interview vrith potential informant through development a'nd 
until discontinued, use extreme caution at all times to be certain ~e is 
not a plant. . 
10. When potential informant begins to furnish current information and 
otherwise qualifies for designation as informant, advise Bureau. 
This communication must be personally ini1ialed by SAC or ASAC 
acting in his absence. Individual's background must be thoroughly 
reviewed at this time, keeping in mind possibility of usi~g inform­
ant as witness. If individual has any weaknesses, set forth safe­
guards being followed to insure security and prevent embarrassment 
to Bureau. 
E. BUREAU POLICY 
1. Development of military personnel 
Do not develop informants among military personnel on military reserva·­
tions, establishments, etc., unless specifically approved by Bureau. 
2. Contacts by designated Agents 
Contacts with informant or potential informant should only be made by 
Agent or Agents specifically designated to contact him. 
3. Divulging inforw~tion to informant 
No information should be divulged to potential informant or infor~~nt 
concerning any of Bureau's investigati-ve activity other tlian that which 
is essential to his proper operation. 
4. Recording investigative activity 
All investigati -:.-e activity must be made matter of record in field· office 
files ½~th all sources of jnforma.tion being completely identified. Agents 
must not have and use informants known only to individual Agents personally. 
[ (5. All informants and sources are to be debriefed on at lea.st a monthly 
[ basis regarding their knowledge of narcoti·cs activities.] 
F. INDOCTRINATION, DIRECTION, AND CONTROL OF INFORNANTS 
l. Caution against divulging relationship 
During initial development and consistently thereafter, impress upon 
informant absolute necessity that he refrain from divulging his rela­
tionship with Bureau. These instructions must be properly phrased to 
prevent possibility of Bureau's being accused of attempting to impose 
censorship. 
2. Developing additional background 
During development of informant, additional data concerning h:i.s back­
ground should be continuously obtained from informant. Be alert for 
data revealing he is mentally or emotionally unstable, or has some 
personal problem which would make him a risk. 
3. Indications of instability . 
Im.~ediately furnish details of any indications of instability to Bureau, 
with rec·ommendations as to informa.ni;'s continuance and comments as to 
any steps being taken to prevent .embarrassmont to Bureau. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1136 
5 
9-13-72 
