r t 
l 
I 
I I 
I ! 
( 
( 
( 
,, 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
G, 
SECTION 107.SECURITY INFORM.ANTS .AND CONFID-TIAL SOURCES 
INFORMANTS' INFORY..A.TION 
1, General instructions re oral and written information 
107G 
a, Instructions regarding preparation, submission, and handling of 
information received from informants apply not only to security 
informants but also to potential security informants, panel sources, 
security confidential sources, ani security sources of information. 
b. Specific instructions and guidance must be given to informants 
concerning preparation.of statements containing their "information, 
c, They should be submitted as quickly as possible after a meeting 
or activity. 
d, Written statements should be submitted whenever possible, bu·I; if such 
cannot be done information may be provided orally. In espionage and 
foreign nationality matters written statements are usually necessary 
only in those instances involving possible future prosecuti9n, (In 
the majority· of cases diplomats or officials who are not subjec·I; to 
prosecution are involved.) . 
e. Carefully scrutinize each, bearing in mind that if informant is cailed 
upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be 
introduced in court. 
f. All information furnished by informants orally or in writing must b.e 
promptly.reviewed, recorded, indexed, evaluated, channelized, and all 
necessary action taken. Form FD-306 may be used in lieu of a chan­
nelizing memorandum if desired. If so used, prepare copies of FD-306 
as needed for channelization and staple one copy to each copy of in­
formant 1 s statement being channelized. Channelization should be noted 
on original FD-306 and on all copies. [In those instances in which in­
formantrs statement contains references to a large number of individuals 
and/or organizations, and statement exceeds two pages in length, con­
sideration should be given to channelizing to a substantive case file 
only those portions of statement which apply to particular individual 
or organization. Of course, entire informant's statement should be 
filed in informant's subfile, This procedure should save filing space, 
time of reviewing files, and should be employed unless a logical rea-
son dictates otherwise,] 
g_. Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, advise trial a·l;tor­
ney that informant not only furnished information concerning instant 
case but also provided other statements not pertinent to case at issue.· 
Trial attorney will thus be prepared in event informant testifies on 
direct examination or cross-examination that he furnished information 
in addition to his testmony. 
h. See subsection M for instructions regarding filing informant statements. 
2. Recording written and oral ~nformation 
a. Written by informant 
(1} May be in handwriting or hand printing of informant.or typed. 
{2) Original only should be submitted and informants should never 
retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously check 
informants to see that they do not keep any notes or copies. 
(
4
3) Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification. 
( ) Date when informant prepares statement should be placed at the 
top of it. 
(5) All information obtained by informants regarding each meeting 
or each separate activity in which they engage should be sub­
mitted in one statement whether the information is of 
evidentiary or intelligence value. 
lOa 
7-14-69 
•• NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1651 t 
