SECRET Betsy palmer 
Volume X continued 
6. Caole to[San Jose, Caracas~ Santo Domingoi,).:-le:cico Ci tyk 0'1,F.':\
1
/Z 
?ram: Director dated 31 August 63 ·, •· 
Ray departing 29 Aug, on trip to first three addees, Atter.ipting renew 
Mexican visa waiver for travel there later. Purpose of trip to solicit 
political backing, raise funds, tighten JURE organization, steeamline 
cormnunication and establish take-off points for operations against target. 
7. Cable to Director from JMWAVE dtd 7 Sept 63, Ref HAVE 3895 '· 
Reported conversation with Ray's sister-in-law wherein she stated P.a~r 
visited her home on 30 August to say good by. He ·..ra.s going to 'Je in.filtra.ted. 
into Cuba and would not see her for some time, Said he was not in accord 
with certain U.S. officials on CUban policy and has no confidence in U.S. 
ability to liberate CUba. Said he had refused two invitations extended 
by RFK to discuss eu.ban situation. 
8. Document transfer and Cross Reference dtd 10 Sept 63( m:,'G-03590 l 
Ray arrived secretly in Miami from Puerto Rico, had secret meeting with 
Manuel Q,uiza Decal, LDR of CUbanos Libres, in which Quiza officially 
connected his organization to JURE for all action. Later traveled to 
N.Y.C. to purchase c-4 explosives. 
9. Cable to Director from JMWAVE dtd 11 Sept 63, report from iU<lTAUP-2 ] 
who sp<~ke with Rogelio Cisneros on 6 Sept. Cisneros stated Ray departed 
for Costa Rica on 5 Sept to interview President Orlich. Said on Ray's 
last meeting with RFD, the private secretary of President Romulo Betancourt 
was present. Cisneros said JURE objective is to tave different prominent 
figures in La.tin .American govermnents witness promises made by U.S. govt. 
Cisneros said JURE not obligated to report military or political plans to 
CIA but CIA obligated to deliver to JURE all rnili ta,r:r e,:?_uipment needed to 
... 
fight Castro. Delivery of equipment will be on high seas from a CIA bo~t . _. ___ .... 
to JURE boat which will proceed to CUba. 
10. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 6 Sept 63, Elania Germania (Bernal) 
de Paula reported she learned from her brother-in-lay, Manuel Ray} that he 
had recently been in Europe negotiating arms purchases in Belgium. r.ontact 
man for purchase of Col. Ra..?Jn Ba.rquin. 
11. Cable to Director from MEXI dtd 27 Sept 1963 ;}6301 
C LI~~2 approached by Julio Lanier on behalf of Ray and JURE. '\vant to 
start ni:!.litary operation against Cuba using Mexico as a base. Lanier saj"S 
Ray receiYing money from .Venezuela. L-2 is a CIA agent - Cuoan citizen 
living in Mexico. Mexican station wants to kee~ him clean of overt exile 
activity. 
SECRET 
