f 87.TI 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
-INVESTIGATION OF SUBVER[ A 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIV19,S 
c. u,. s·. Government employees 
Tr~ese subjects are of special interest to Department of Justice .. 
Cardi on "Special Interest" subjects should be filed in regular sequence 
with other ADEX cards. 
Changes in residence and employment of ADEX subjects 
a. Develop sour.ces to insure that any such changes are promptly brought 
to our attention. 
b. Submit FD-122 whenever changes occur. Also submit FD..:366 to FBIHQ • 
and Se_cret Service locally. 
Changes in other background data 
a. Submit any changes, additions, or deletions in data required by FD-122 
in an upclated-FD-122. If item being deleted, specify "Delete." 
b. Make notations concerning change on existing ADEX card pending 
receipt of revised card from FBIHQ. 
Moveraent of ADEX subjects between offices 
a. Requests from other offices to verify addresses of subjects should 
be handled within thirty days. 
b. Upon verification of new address, office of origin submit FD-128 
transferring origin. Furnish original and copy to FBIHQ and two copies 
to office covering new address enclosing copies of previous reports, 
other pertinent serials, photograph if available, and'ADEX cards. 
c. If flash notice (FD-165) has been placed with Identification Division,. 
note on FD-128 and designate extra copy for FBIHQ, attention Identifica-
tion Division. ' 
d. Old office of origin submit current report or LHM whenever there is 
pertinent information to report. Do not delay submission of FD-128 
solely for preparation of report or LI-IM, but note ·on FD"-128 latter 
being prepared. Old office of origin furnish Secret Service locally 
with subject's new residence and business addresses by FD-366 and 
provide _copies to new office of origin for disseminatiQn to Secret 
·Service there. • 
e. If new office of origin plans no further investigation, advise FBIHQ 
by letter that case is being closed. 
Subject entering U.S. armed forces 
Submit FD-122 to cancel ADEX and FD-366 to advise Secret Service, 
furnishing copy of latter to local Secret Service office. Be certain 
interested military agency has been forwarded all pertinent subversive 
data regarding subject and is aware of subject's entry into armed forces. 
Where appropriate, prepare up-to-date LHM or report for dissemination to 
military agency and to Secret Service both at FBIHQ and field level. 
While subject is serving in armed forces, appropriate military agency has 
complete Jurisdiction over his activities and no active investigation 
should be conducted by FBI. Geographical card for subject should be 
filed in case file marked "canceled" and alphabetical card destroyed. 
When subject returns to civilian status, determine if activities warrant 
inclusion in ADEX. If so, submit FD-122 so ·recommending as well as 
current report. If not, advise FBIHQ by letter. 
Removal of cards from ADEX 
Subject should be removed from ADEX for any of the following reasons: 
a. Death 
b. Permanent departure from Ug S. or Puerto Rico 
c. Designation as security informant 
d. Subject no longer falls within ADEX criteria 
22 
·6-6-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1382 
( 
( 
( 
I I 
f I 
I ' 
I ·I I 
l 
! ' i. i . l 
l 
I 
' / 
' 
i i • ' l 
I 
I 
I i 
