) 
( 
( 
(4) 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
,-
SE~-·• 87 ._ SF:c1mrTY Il!VESTIGATIO!lc .• ) 87D 
II. 
IV. 
l6cate rubjects are not to be submitted. The Bureau 
will clo1ely follow investigative action to locate 
missing security index subjects. 
If you receiYe indications that the subject wen.t to 
Mexico or Canada, request the Bureau to alert other 
appropriate Government agencies to this possibility 
~nd to determine any aYailable verifjing information 
through liaison channels. 
If the subject is reported to haYe gone to any other 
foreign country, the Washington Field Office should be 
requested to check the records of the Passport Office. 
of the State Department for verification. • 
When all logical leads have been exhausted in the case 
of a missing important tunctionary, consideration should 
be giYen to circulariz.;i.ng all field offices vdth the 
s:ub.ject•s photograph and backg"round· information for the 
purpose of aler~ing the entire field to the identity 
of the ciubject. Bureau authority must be obtained be­
.fore circularization is made. In seeking Bureau author­
ity, advise th~ Bureau as to the position held by the 
subject and 11hat efforts have already been• made to locate 
him. 
,.Jf._this procedure is to be effective, its application 
must· nee es sarily be res tricti Ye in the number o"f subjects 
to which it is applied. Therefore, requests-to circularize 
must be made only after eve¾y possible lead has been 
exha.u:ited and then only in th~ cases of the most impor-
tant missing functionaries. 
Individuals ·l;ravaling abroad[{If subject is a resident alien, 
also consider section J.05E, 4, volume IV, of this manual.) J 
When informaticn is received indicating that any indiYidual on 
whom we haYe subversi-ve derogatory information intend-s to travel 
abroad_ or has already departed this country for foreign travel,· 
take the follo"l'Ting action: . 
(a) Immediately a<lYise the B-u.reau in form suitable for dissemi­
nation, setting forth complete ::!.Yailable details concerning 
the foreign travel, including places and dates of departure 
and intended return, destination and itinerary, purpose of 
trip, t.he CX.iJ.Ct name under which the passport was issued, 
the mm1ber of the passport, and the office issuing the pass­
port, if known. However, do not delay advising the Bureau 
of the actual or intended travel while developing the above 
information as tin:.e is of the essence in this matter. 
(b) Set out a lead fo:r the Washington Field Office for a check 
of the records of the Passport Office, Department of State; 
however, do not limit efforts to de,relop above inforrna ti on 
to a check of such records. 
(c) In the case of an individual previously the subject of 
inyestig~.tion, the case should be brough:t up -to elate by the 
prompt submission of a report in the event there is unreported 
informatl on contained in the file. If reports have not 
previously been submitted in the case, a letterhead memorandum 
summarixing the available subversive data should accompany 
the initial letter ad7lsing th~ Bureau of the propo~ed 
tra,el. 
(d) Information concerning these subjects• proposed traYel abroad, 
includini; iTlformation concerning their subversive activities, 
·is furnished by the Bureau to the Department of State, Central 
Intelligence Agency, and le~al attaches if the proposed 
travel is in areas covered by such and, frequently, requests 
are made of one or all of the abo7e to place stops with 
appropria~e security services abroad to be advised of the 
activities of these subjects. 
850 
33 
4-3-61 
