( 
S BC'.l.'ION 107 . eam.ITY IWFOR.1'11\:::TS lu-rn COJ.'1F'IDEi.'\f-.L SOURCES 107S' - U 
8. In st1·uct each interested. J3urea·a. office which has made fur·l;her cli s-
9. 
10. 
11. 
120 
13. 
semin.>.tion of such ini'ormn.tion to follow the instructions set forth 
a bo-v-e Q 
Also set up a control file regarding this corrective action~ and upon 
completion of same submit to the Bureau a final letter unde~ t4e in-
formant 1 s caption 5dentifying each case by title, charaoter, _Bureau file, 
where known, and da.tc • of oommunioation 0 
This letter will be used ·to check all pertinen·l; Bureau files ·l;o see 
that necessary corrective action ha.A been taken in Qach ins¾anoe~ 
If neaessary, other field offices which have received. information from 
the in:fo1~mant should also be requos·l;ed to submi·t summary letters sho11--, 
ing what corrections have been madeo 
It is :i.mpera·ti v-e tha·t all informa·Hon from the informan·t be oor:ceo·hly 
12.beled ant1. great care mus-'G be taken to see ·l;ha·t ·!;his in done. 
Occasionally, an ex-:i,nformant through his speech, writings, or ac·tions 
raises a doubt as ·l;o his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and ohange the evaluation of· 
the information attributed to that individual in the absence of a 
definite ino.ication that ·the informant fur·,1ished. unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was an informant. 
Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be l"lade in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations, 
T. CLASSIFICATION - 134 
U. CON]'IDENTI.A.L SOURCES 
1, Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a, A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved, 
b, Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation~ 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
s·l;a.tement concerning type of information furnished, 
c. The abbreviation "CS 11 may be used in intra-Bureau oommuni_oations 
for confidential source. Communications relating to espionage and 
foreign nationality matters should. in addition have a character 
indicating the country involve·d; e,g., IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential source, 
·· the abbreviation 11CS 11 is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS NY-000-S. • 
e. Symbol numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from 
the series of symbol numbers used for your security and criminal 
informants. 
3, Index 
[ a, Ind~x cards [ on f_orm FD-348 J like those prepared for informants must 
4, 
be made up and filed as an adjunc·l; to the criminal info:cman·l; index 
or the "security informant index," depending on the type of information 
furnished. 
b, The symbol ::ndex is handled similarly to the symbol :lndex on inform-­
ants. 
c, Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
criminal informant i,ndex and the security in ':,n"'raant index if the 
source furnishes information of value in bo·l;h ,Gypes of investiga­
tions. 
Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to an individual who 
has potential as a security confidential source, a :;_ ·-: classi'fication 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending sta~us until efforts­
to develop the individual are discontinued. The same procedure should 
be followed concerning racial confidential sources, the classification 
being 137. Files may be opened on confidential sources in criminal 
matters in a manner identical with that for handlin~ criminal informant 
files in the discretion of the SAC. 
27 
5-18-62 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
i 
__J 
