from tl1e Special Group or Special Group Augmented, Helms stated: 
II 
I didn't. see how one would have expected that a thing like killing or 
murdering or assassination would bec6me a part of a large group of people 
sitting around a table in the United States Government." (Helms, 7/17, 
p. 14). And with regard to inform5ng the President or obtaining explicit 
authority from him, Helms stated that "nobody wants to embarrass a·Presi-
dent of the United States (by) discussing the assassination of foreign 
leaders in his presence." (Helms, 6/13, p. 29). 
Thus, in the following exchange·Helms stated that it "wouldn't have 
occurred to me to ask'' for clarification or express authority for assass-
.... 
ination activity from Robert Kennedy or the Special Group: 
"Senator Huddleston: " ... it did not occur to you to 
inquire of the Attotney General or of the Special 
Group or of anyone that vhen they kept pushing and 
asking for action ... to clarify that question of 
whether you should actually be trying to assassinate?" 
"Mr. Helms: "I don't know whether it was in training 
experience, tradition or exactly what one points to, 
.but I think to go up to a Cabinet officer and say, 
am I right in assuming that you want me to assassinate 
Castro or to try to assassinate Castro, is a question 
it wouldn't have occurred.to me to ask." 
*** 
"Senator Huddleston: " ... (because assassination has such 
serious consequences) seems to fortify the thought that 
I would want to be dead certain, I would want to hear 
it from the horse's mouth in plain, simple English language 
before I would want to undertake th~t kind of activity." 
(Helms, 7/17, pp.51-52). 
Helms also pointed out his reason 
in. the following exclwnze: 
"Senator Morgan: "In light of your previous statement 
that this is a Christian country and that this Committee 
has to face up to the prime moral issue of __ whethe,r or not ... 
killing is ... acceptable ... don't you think it would have 
taken affirmative permission or authority to kill, rather 
than just saying it was not eliminated from the authority 
or you were not restricted ... ?" 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 176 
