C O N F I D E N T I A L 
women's National March on 
too Pentagon, April 10, 1971 
The source advised that at the above meeting, it 
was stated that no permit had been obtained as yet for the 
Women's March on the Pentagon on April 10, 1971. It was 
stated that the march will proceed from a "grassy spot" at the 
Justice Department at noon, past the Bureau of Indian Affairs, 
Department of the Interior, Department of Labor and on to 
the Pentagon. An hour at each end of the march would be 
allowed for speakers, though the group doubted they would use 
it. Guerrilla theatre activity by participating groups in 
front of the various government buildings was discussed and~ 
encouraged, though specifics were not mentioned9 
The source stated that at the above meeting, copies 
of a letter to Madame Binh, head of too Vietcong delegation 
to the Paris peace talks and the North Vietnamese in Paris, 
were passed out, describing the purpose of the April 10 march. 
This letter is set forth as follows: 
"March 25, 1971 
"Dear Mme. Binh, 
"on April 10, many of us American women will be 
marching on the Pentagon. You know already of the other 
actions being planned here against the war. As women, we 
are coming out from separate cities and roles, trying to 
create reality out of what we once held looked up in our 
imaginations. In marching on the Pen~agon, we are joining with 
all people inside and outside of Amerika, who fight against 
Amerika's attempt to control us. 
"We've been conditioned so long to accept Amerika's 
definition of us as weak, passive, and powerless, and to deny 
all our feelings of lqve and strength, that it has been a 
struggle for us to turn towards each other and fight for our 
freedom. 
"Your own long struggle in Indochina, and the struggle 
of Third World people here at home, awakened us to the 
destruction that Amerikan power represents all over the world. 
Your many victories against that power have been an inspiration 
to us. But it-wasn't until we joined together to examine and 
share our own experiences as women in Amerika that we saw 
CON FI: DE.NT I AL 
NW 88321 Docld:32989544 Page 488 - 2 -
