14-00000 
)4 
MEMORANDUM FOR: 
FROM: 
OFFICE: 
SUBJECT: 
REFERENCE: 
Bonnie: 
New Memo\St:111d:ird 
Bonnie K. Hunter•Y·@ OCI 
• Frieda P. Omasta 
AOA/IRO 
CIA-12 (Shackley et all 
Cl BY: 0000000 
Cl IE.UOlt S..IOR 1.5 C 
D(Q, Ill: X 1 
GAY FAM: COY 1-82 
27 February 1998 
Shackley, Cross. Henry, Gupton (CIA-IR-12) OA/IRO No. 12 
This is with respect to your 26 February 1998 note wherein you asked that we check HRM for personnel files on Ron Cross. Bart 
Henry_ and William Morris Kent. In an effort to bring the status of this particular tasking (CIA-IR-12) up-to-date, I provide the following: 
My records show that on 18 July 1997 Barry requested that we conduct file searches on Ted Shackley, Ron Cross, Bart Henry and 
Doug Gupton. We were advised by Barry. and as outlined in a 22 May 1996 letter from ARRB to John Pereira, that Cross, Henry and 
Gupton are pseudonyms used by CIA personnel who testified to the HSCA. 
Notwithstanding, we tasked OPS and HRM to conduct searches on these individuals in an effort to locate files. On 22 December 1996, 
I advised Barry that HRM had located files on Ted Shackley and would provide them to Barry via this office once they arrived from RC. It 
is my understanding that Becky gave you the OPF yesterday. HRM advsied further that they had attempted to locate files on Cross. 
Henry and Gupton but failed to locate any files on these individuals in fight of the fact that only the pseudos had been provided. We 
further advised that if in the future you have access to the true nam~. yte wift glady search again. 
On 23 December 199 7. I advised Barry that OPS had located files on Ted Shackley, Ron Cross and Ooug Gupton and that the files were 
in OPS for review. They were unable to locate a record on Bart Henry. It is my understanding that you have not reviewed these files to 
date but are in the process of making arrangements to do so. Sue-Ann Pierson conducted the search back in July and I am certain that ·­
she will be glad to you in this matter {40000). 
And lastly, 1 have no record of ever having received a request to search on William Morris Kent. Accordingly, I will request OPS and 
HRM to do so. 
Please let me know if I have misinterpreted the status of this request. Thank you. Frieda 
Original Text of Frieda P. Omasta 
Original Text of Frieda P. Omasta 
New Memo\Standard 
~ 
