13-00000 
- 2 -
wryly that he him.self occasionally had problems with his memory 
but that he did not think he was yet living with it entirely. The 
President then noted that we should have been briefing Mr. Trwnan 
more often and that perhaps had we done so, it would have pre­
vented the type of article he had recently published about the CIA. 
The President then stated that he wanted President Hoover, 
President Eisenhower, and President Trwnan briefed monthly on 
the international situation as well as on the domestic situation 
and what his programs were. (Action: This requires follow-up 
with the White House and possibly a discussion between Mr. McCone 
and the President since Mr. McCone indicated informally that he 
thought once a month was too often and that, in any event, while 
CIA can handle the international situation, we should have some 
other agency handle the domestic situation.) 
4. The President then made a number of statements which 
seemed to be in part his philosophy of operations an.d in others a 
repetition of his conversation with Erhard. It was difficult to 
separate when he was repeating what he had said to Erhard and 
when he was stating a Johnson principle. 
5. The President stated that he was much taken with Erhard 
and that he thought him a smart, articulate German who was much 
more appealing than Adenauer. Erhard apparently attempted to 
feel the President out as to his reactions to various statements and 
positions taken by deGaulle. The President got the impression that 
Erhard was initially trying to play off deGaulle against the President. 
Mr. Johnson told Erhard that as far as he, Mr. Johnson, was con­
cerned, he was going to do everything possible to promote a peaceful 
world but without in any way relaxing either our guard or our military 
streng~; he was prepared to walk around the world if necessary to 
promote peace when he was convinced that such walking would assist -­
on the other hand, he had no intention of making trips just to cultivate 
friends and promote the giving away of U. S. resources in an effort 
to entice people to join our camp; if they wanted to come in willingly 
with their eyes open, he would welcome them but he felt it was time 
for other nations to do some thinking on their own and to make their 
