'l :,-
,· 
( 
t 
[ 
[ 
L. 
PART II 6K - L 
SEC~ION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Included in the index may be individuals in Government, business, or 
indus~ryo Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information~ Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towrrs; alpha- -
betically in the subdiviaions; and alphabeticall~ by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. 
Maintain the index where it is available' to all'Agent;~ A~ index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards may~~ kept bi resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their home·s when­
ever the SAC feels it is ·practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a locked, steel file cabinet. ·cards sha+l be 
kept as in.the field office. The cards shall pertain only to the 
territory covered; under such circumstances.there sha~l be no: duplicat~ 
cards in the field office, Cards lre-to be deleted when obsorete. 
~ ; . . 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not remove 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of inf6rmation index. _:, ~ 
2. Files 
Do not make up files or write memuranda for the ~rep~r~tio~ of iources 
of informationo ·' -
3. Security.and racial sources of information ·.<~ 
4. 
SAC 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Every four months a letter of justification should be .submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and racial 
sources of information. See section 107N, 3b, volume IV, of the .. Manual of 
Instructions for form to be followed. If the security or racial source of 
information is not being paid on· Bureau authorization and •is being used 
regularly, the Agent handling the source of information mu-st d.ictate a 
memorandum to the SAC·fo~ the file containing the .. same certification.as to 
stability and reliability as required by payment letters. • ·., 
Gifts[should rtot be given to sources since such actions might ~e 
misconstrued.] ... 
CONTACTS 
SAC contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, .can 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual an~ highly • •• 
valuable assistance to the FBI upon the request .of ·the SAC,.. 
A complete file review must be made on each contact (file review on .. 
spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary unless ·spec-ia-1 , • 
circumstances prevail}. · • . - . .--: .. •·. • • 
SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Request .. this •_approval 
by letter to the Bureau captione.d 11 ___ , SAC Contact. 11 Mark the 
letter for the attention of the Crime Records Division. 
Use the following subheadings in the order given: 
a 0 Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact can p~ovide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Derogatory information 
f. Recommendation of SAC· 
Submit an original and two copies, ·but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication. If the SAC contact is 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved.and returned_ 
to the field. If the contact is not approved, a letter is t.o be submitted 
to the field stating why the individual cannot be used as an SAC contact~ 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not pro­
posing individuals who because of business connections or personal 
7 
7-26-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 333 
