February 5, 1960 
·/ 
DAMAGE TO NUCLEAR SUBMARINE "NAUTILUS," NUCLEAR 
CRUISER "LOllG BEACH" AND GUIDED MISSILE FRIGATE "LUCE" • 
8.ABOTAGE 
I 
The Boston Office is investigating three cases involving 
. possible sabotage to three vessels of the United States Navy. 
Between 9-28-59 and 10-19-59, 279 cuts were found in the 
electri,cal cable.CJ of the nuclear submarine "Nautilus, 11 which watJ 
being overhauled at Portsmouth, New Hampshire. It has been determined 
that 42 of these cuts could have been made accidentally. On .Il-12-59 
foreign ·material was found in a pump on the "}laut'tlur1. 11 The Bos·ton 
Of/ice has interviewed the entire crew of -the "Nautilus" and over 1,500 
shipyard employees. As many of the damaged' cables as could ;Je made 
available by the Navy have been submitted for Laboratory examination 
and addt~tonal specimens are being submitted when they can be made 
ai•ailable by the llavy. The polygraph has beer: u.sed in connec-tio-i with 
the in-tervi,ews of suspect tndivtdua.Zs and additional interviews using 
the polygraph are being arrangedo 
l 
On l-15-60 nine smell cuts were discovered in the degaussing 
cables (protgction against magnetic mines) OJ~ the nuclear cruiser 
11Lor.g .Beach, 11 which is bei,ng constructed at Quincy, ·Ma.3sachusetts. 
These cuts contain no i,dentifying marks for Labc;-a-tory comparison 
with suspect tools. An average of 2,700 employees worked on thts 
vessel daily and a total of approximately 5,000 employees had access 
to it. Over 3,100 _individual e~playees have been interviewed and 
interviews are continui~g. 
·, On 12-28-59, 21 cut· wires were found in the fire control 
wiring o.f the guided missile .trigate "Luce", which i.s also under 
construction. at Quincy, l.faBscchusetts. This damage vas not reported 
to us or to the Office of Naval Intelligence until 1-11-60 as the 
damage was originally considered inadvertent. Over 14)000 employees 
had access to the vessel. The employees assigned to the area of the 
damage have been identified and are being interviewed. Other e:Tlployees 
known to have worked in the area are also being inte~viewed. The 
damaged wir_es have been forwarded to the FBI Laboratory for exanina,~ion .. 
\ 
In connection ".:Jtth the damage on the "Long Beach" and "Luce" 
superi,i.9ory employees have expressed the opinion that this dam<1,ge is 
of the nuisan~e and malicious mischief type rather than sabotage as the 
danage was not hidden and was readily appa1·Jnt. The Boston Office has 
been instructed that d~spite the~3 statements this dcnage has been 
. -·-···-· --- ------ .. .J 
... 
. . . , 
