13-00000 
U~I 1:,.'tl 110 
... ,. 
. .. 
T. Jeremy Gunn 
Executive Director and General Counsel 
Assassination Records Review Board 
March 25, 1998 
Mr. Chainnan and Members of the Committee - I appreciate the opportunity to 
testify on S. 712 from the perspective of a person who has labored in the 
declassification trenches for the past three and one-half years. ·Although I serve as the 
Executive Director of the Assassination Records Review Board, I wish to emphasize 
that I am testifying here today not as a spokesman for the Review Board, but as an 
individual who has been Involved In day-to-day interactions with nu']lerous Federal 
agencies on Issues related to declasslflcatlon. The Review Board members, who were 
appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, are Judge John R. Tunheim, 
Professor Henry F. Graff, Dean Kennlt L. Hall, Dr. William L. Joyce, and Professor 
Anna Kasten Nelson. The Board members have provided the American people 
unparalleled access to infonnatlon that has been held secret for more than a third of a 
century. The Review Board's official positions on matters related to declassiflcatlon will 
be set forth In its Final Report to Congress and the President later this year. 
I applaud the efforts of Senator Moynihan, Sena~~.r.~~,r:n~.J~ndJhls_Committeeto---··----· 
reduce government secrecy.-One onh·e lriigrc·consequences of govemm·ent secrecy 
has been the widely held belief that the government has known much more about the 
assassination than it has been willing to reveal to the public. Many of the assassination 
records that we have· seen could have been opened to the public years ago without any 
harin to the national security. The efforts of this Committee could go a long way to help 
alleviate the suspicion of govemment - some of it being Justifiable· suspicion - that has 
festered since the assassination of President Kennedy. • 
Because my experience comes principally from the field of declassification, I will 
focus my remarks on that area rather than discuss the very Important Issue of Initial 
classification. • 
I. Background 
Although the word "unique• is over-used, it can fairly be applied to the work and 
accomplishments of the Review Board. The Board was created by Congress in an 
effort to release the govemmenf s still-secret files related to the assassination of 
President Kennedy. In accordance with the declassification standards articulated In· 
Section 6 of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 
1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107, Pub.L. 102-526 (as amended) ("JFK Actj, the Review Board 
