.A. 
( 
B. 
( 
SF.CTIOU 107.SECUR.ITY TlfFORHAHTS ARD CONFii-.i'IAL SOURCES 1O7A ,... B 
N~FilUTIONS 
1. Security informan·l; 
Individual actively engaged in obtaining and furnishing cuTrent infor­
mation on securi-l;y matters exclusively for Bureau and whose i .,m·l;ity 
must be protected. Such person should be a member or attend •. etings 
of a subversive- organization, such as the Communist Party; or ',.: in 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or espionage 
activities or intelligence_ activities in the Ui $. on behalf of foreign 
principal that he is able to obtain and.does provide cur~ont infor­
mation of va.lue. 
2. Potential security informant 
Individual in a position to be~ome active in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence ac•tivities in ·the U. S. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and js making 
affirmative effort ·i;hrough associations or contacts so that he can be 
in a position actively to obtain and furnish curren·c information to 
Bureau, 
3. Double agent 
A S;>ecialized type of security informant; a person who is cooperating 
with, receiYing assignments from, and performing tasks for both a forei·gn 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance. 
4. Confidential source ' 
An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available 
to him through his present position. Examples would be: ban.l{:ers and 
telephone company employees. These individuals make no concerted effort 
on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain ani furnish information readily 
avai)able to them. 
SOURCES OF POTENTIAL SECURITY INFORMANTS 
Informa.n·t;s should be developed on all organizations and individuals that 
are iri••,ical to the internal security. Experience has shown that potential 
inforrr,· nts may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal invest:i­
gative ~.ctivity. Live informant coverage depends for the most part upon 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs. For assistance 
in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested: 
1. Evaluation of 
a. Complainants in security matters 
b, Persons interviewed in connection with security oases 
c, Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest., inactivity, financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation of party loyalty 
d, Bureau applicants as possible informants 
e. Personal friends and contacts of Special Agents and other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidential sources, and contacts on con-
tinuous basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
3. Review of reserve index 
4. As certain possibilities of reacti Ya ting former confi.denti3:l informant_s. • 
5. Deleted • • 
6, Review factionalism section of file on Communist Party, USA. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffection 
on the part of Communist Party members. They, of course, should not be 
informed as to the purpose of the inquiry. 
8. Review of files on communist front organizations looking for individuals 
who have been associa•ted with only one qr two fronts or who atte·nded· only 
a few meetings of a front. Such indi-viduals frequently are innocent of 
communist propensities, yet they have a basis for cultivating the 
acquaintance of party members. 
3 
4-:13'-65 
\NW 38121 Docld:32989529 Page 1592 _J 
