1070. - S SEC.TION 107 •• ECURITY INFORMANTS .A.ND GOHFID1.AL SOURCES 
[ 
( 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
• will be subjected to harassment, criticism, possible libel, slander, ·or 
other criminal actions. If he inquires as to whether he ·should appear 
or testify or otherwise cooperate with any public or private individual 
or agency, advise him he must make that decision humself, but if he has 
appeared as a Government witness in a case yrhich has not been finall·y 
adjudicated and decides in the affirmative, he should contact the USA 
for instructions. Advise Bureau of any such situations and the re·sul ts 
of.any interviews conducted. , 
[ 16. Whenever contacting Agent feels a discontinue-d informant cduld cause 
embarrassment to the Bureau, arrangements should be made to have the 
former informant come to the field office where he will be personally met 
by the SAC. At that time, he should be impressed with the fact that 
his services·were appreciated and were of considerable assistance to the 
security of the country and remind him that he signed an agreement when 
he was active as an informant to maintain his relation with the Bureau 
on a ~onf~dential basis. The SAC should stress the necessity for the 
informant to maintain this confidence.] 
R. FURNISHING OF INFORMANTS TO IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (INS) 
1. INS conducts investigations of alien communists as required under the 
Immigration Act of 10-16-18, as amended, INS, in order to enforce this 
statute, must obtain evidence to prove that certain aliens, due to 
their membership in certain groups, are undesira.ble and deportable or 
subject to denaturalization.· . . 
2. Cooperate fully with INS in these cases and make efforts consistent 
with your own cases and interests ·to make available information and 
witnesses where possible. 
3. In this regard, if contacted by INS inquiring for informants and you 
have a discon·l;inued informant or one who would be of assistance to 
INS and whose loss would not affec-f; your work, furnish his identity to 
the Bureau, together with your recommendation. 
4. The Bureau will then review all of the facts concerning such informant 
and advise as to whether or not his identity may be disclosed to INS. 
5. Exercise care in recommending informants for disclosure to INS so that 
you wili not find yourself without proper coverage. 
6. Before any informant is turned over to INS, obtain informant 1 s permission. 
S. CORRECTIVE ACTION ON FALSE INFORMATION 
l. When it is determined that an informant or ex-informant furnished false 
information while an informant, advise Bureau by airmail of complete 
facts. 
2. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing 
the informant in future, such as: "informant of known unreliability" 
or "informant who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information 
in the past. 11 
3. Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with a review 
of all data furnished by the individual and label information from him 
accordingly. 
4 .. All communications con·taining information from the informant which have 
been dissemina·ted to Bureau, other Bureau offices, and to outside agencies 
must be corrected. 
5. Identify the cases individually by title and character, together with 
dates of communications containing the information. 
6. If information was used in reports, corrective letters should be crystal 
clear and refer to the specific report, page number, and change to be 
made. 
7. • Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by the 
Bureau in accordance with part II, section 4, of the Manual of Rules 
and Regulations; correctiYe action should be called to the attention 
of o·l;her Bureau. offices, outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1500 
26 
1-16-61 
) 
\ 
.J 
