• 
SD 157-2815' 
Right Wing group in the San Diego area. He was reportedly 
studying that organization and considering becoming a 
member. 
(SD T-2, September 13, 1971) 
! V 
• The National Socialist White Peoples Party, 
also k.no~m as The American Nazi Party, 
American Nazis, and The George Lincoln 
Rockwell Party, was organized on February 26, 
195'6, at Arlington, Virginia, based upon 
the· concept of an international "National Socialist" 
movement as espoused by the German Nazi Party 
headed qy Adolf Hitler. The organization supports 
and follows the line of hatred against Negroes, 
Jews, and communists through various propaganda 
media seeking a legitimat-e dominant political 
. party in the United States and foreign countries. 
f • .r . 
On September 1/; '1971, it was reported that, 
while very interested in the NSWPP, DAVIS was still considering 
going ahead with plans for the new organization. In addition, 
DAVIS indicated that he expected to obtain membership lists 
and the neceBarY, materials for setting up application forms, 
bulJetins and t~aining literature for.the new organization 
1 from BETREnAUGHTON, wife of T~.9.Y..-H1tUGHTON. DAVIS said 
c· . , 1/. 'he would attempt to have the bulletins, training materials, 
·"'- and membership application forms printed in the near future 
and that, tentatively the responsibility for making the 
monthly mail-outs woitld alternate between DAVIS and GODFREY. 
DAVIS advised that 0 .• ~~·il:!~.PER of Alex Rqpid Print, 7609 
El Cajon Boulevard, La Mesa_, California, had agreed to print 
some of these materials. ALEXANDER was described as a former 
MM support~r who had allowed TROY HAUGHTON to use his printing 
facilities for the benefit of the West Coast MM organization. 
Other plans for the new organization included 
eventually setting up two ·membership lists ·which would be 
recorded on microfilm. One of the lists would be maintained 
by DAVIS and the other by GODFREY. ¥The purpose in placing 
NW 88296 Docld:32989574 Page 506 · 
r 
- 7 -!I 
'• . .... 
' I 
f 
L 
