87D 
[ 
-C 
( 
[ 
[ 
SE:· .• 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIOh • 
II. Whenever reports relating to security ip.cle:x subjects 
contain data affecting material included on subjec~•s 
existing security index cird, the cover pages 
accompanying the report shall include as. the last page 
form FD-305, appropriately checked, which_ form contair1r. 
items pertaining to the fdllowing: 
(A} That subject is included in the security index 
(B) That data appearing on security index card is 
current 
(c) That FD-122 has been submitted to Bureau ~here 
security index card changes are necessary • 
(D) 
(E) 
That a suitable photo~raph is or is not available 
That subject is employed in a key facility[and 
agency charged with security responsibilitf i~ 
specified]and that agencies interested in that 
facility are specified 
Reason for classifying repori 
Dates subjec-t was previously interviewed and 
reason for not reinterviewing subject 
(H) That subject no longer meets security index 
criteria and a letter has been directed to the 
Bureau recommending cancellation of the security 
index card 
(I) That subject's case has been re-evaluated and reasons 
-are set forth as to why subject's activities ~ontinue 
to fall within security index criteria 
{J) That·subject 1 s security index card is or is not 
tabbed detcom and[reasons why]subject's activ~ties 
warrant detcom tabbing 
III. Form FD-305a conta,ining items pertinent to re serve 
index subjec·ts will be similarly utilized in connectio!l. 
with the submission of reports in reserve index cases. 
• (b) Documentation of reports 
I. Deleted 
II. If information necessary for complete documentation 
is not available in subject's case file, necessary 
review of other office files should be made. If 
not obtainable, this fact must be indicated in the 
cover page(s) accompanying report to the Bureau. 
III. Extensive investigation should not be conducted t; 
further identify and locate outside individuals who 
have in the past furnished background in:formation -
or to obtain do·cumentary· evidence of. backgro·und 
information. For ·example, if previous investigation 
r~vealed that subject, according to reliable records, 
such as birth records, school records, or records of 
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, was qorn 
at a certain place. on a certain date, such information 
will be suffici.ent for inclus·ion in report. Further 
~erification will-not be nec~ssary. - _ 
• ·IV. During the· preparation of summary re port·s- it· is often_ 
found that informat'ion being incorporated into a 
report was originally obtained by another office a~d all 
of the necessary information for complete documentation 
wil_l· not be in the possession -of the off~ce preparing 
the report. In such an instance, if the office 
preparing the report is in posse:\' i.on of Photostats of 
documents obtained by the other o!:ices and the identity 
- NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 682 78 
... 
