6H 
3. 
4. 
SECTIOH 6. 
- -PART II -
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
h. If an i tern to be subm:i:tted appears on. more than one page of the news­
paper, the words "Continued on page ... ," the subheadline on the cqn­
tinued page, and the words •11continued from page ... " should not be 
mounted. 
i. Mounted clippings should read from t9p to bottom, column by column, 
from left to right. 
j. All clippings must be complete. 
k. Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted except ~hat two copies 
of all items pertaining to actual or pos~ible civil rights violations 
should be forwarded. 
1. 'Tnclude clippings with other mail being sent to Bureau on the day 
that the clippings appear in the local paper. Forward clippings from 
resident agencies the day they arrive at headquarters city. 
Resident Agents must be alert for material appearing in the local press. 
Submission of publications of security interest to the Bureau 
a. General principle governing submissions 
The Bureau desires t_o receive publications of security interest at the 
SOG for purposes of information, re search, and intelligence. Conse-. 
quently, it is requested that evidentiary copies of publications be 
retained in the field and only nonevidentiary copies be forwarded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. 
b. Manner of handling and forwarding nonevidentiary copie~ of publica-
tions • 
(1) Nonevidentiary copies of newspapers, magazines, journals, 
periodicals, news bulletins, and books, obtained regularly 
(by subscription or repeated purchase) and forwarded to the 
(2) 
( 3) 
Bureau, need not be identified as to source. They should be 
submitted via ordinary mail by routing slip (marked for the 
attention of[Research Section, Domestic Intelligence Division)] 
unl.ess transmittal by cover letter has been specifically requested. 
Routing slips may be used to notify the Bureau -of routine adminis­
trative matters, such as temporary suspension of a publication· 
(e.g., during summer months, lack of funds), temporary delay in 
obtaining or receiving particular issues of a publication, or 
other information whioh will keep the Bureau informed relative to 
the status of these publications. To avoid confusion, noneviden­
tiary copies which have been marked for identification (source., 
Agent, date, and place of acquisition)should be further annotated: 
"Not Evidence. II 
Letters .should be used in ,connection with initiating action or 
.ceasing action to obtain publications desired by the Bureau; to 
call to the attention of the Bureau specific items of information 
connected with these publications; and in those instances in 
which good judgment dictates that certain circumstances or 
information should be recorded in letter form. 
Each SAC and each legal attache must keep the Bureau, attention 
[Research Section, Domestic Intelligence Division,]informed on a 
current basis regarding publications (including books) of poten­
tial interest that are n_ot included in the current list of publi­
cations which is supplied periodically to the field and to the 
legal attaches. These publications would include those published 
by subjects of security or counterintelligence investigation_s and 
publications which may otherwise have a security or counterin-
telligence significance. . 
Each SAC and each legal attache should insure that the handling 
of publications for which his office is responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. Subscriptions to these 
publications should be followed closely to insure tliat the 
publications are received at the Bureau on a current basis. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication in sufficient time to enable the 
Bureau to determine the necessity for renewal. 
• 5a 
3-27-70 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 267 
( 
( 
