13-00000 
lf\JATION 
If this photograph does exist 
- It would lend credlbilitv·· to 
'1 •-... NageU's account And Na,-'' • is, 
(continued tram·. . ,e 4} willing to surface and . tt. }iS 
Washington about Sept. 26 (as story to Congress. Popkin says, 
It turned out, JFK left Sept. 25 . provided protective conditions 
for a whirlwind tour of the West) .. · are met. 
· Frantic, Nagell flew to Havana "Manchurian Candidate" 
on Sept. 19 to see if Castro Pookin is also convinced that 
aides coul9 shed • 1ight on the· the f~anila "Manchurian Can­
assassination plot, but the only • didate" case was conne_cted to 
advice they could offer was to . • the JFK assassination. On 
execute Oswald In the hope that March 2, 1967, a man named 
. would stop the plan. Luis Angel Castillo was detain- • 
. But Nagell left Cuba deciding ·ed by the Philippine National 
• that he· "was an intelligence Bureau of Investigation after he 
agent, not a killer." Flying to El had contacted left-wing. Huk 
• Paso via Mexico City, he walked guerrillas. Questioned under 
Into the bank the next day for . truth serum and hypnosis. 
"the sole purpose of having Castillo blurted out a tale of hav- • 
myself arrested and detained by Ing been taken to a bµilding in 
federal authorities" - ap- • Dallas, Tex., the day Kennedy 
• parently- fearing that his was shot. handed a rifle 
association with Oswald would assembled from components.· 
implicate himself in the planned. hidden in a bowling bag and in­
assassination. structed to fire at a man in an 
Nagell was In the El Paso Jail open car sitting next to a lady. 
• when Kennedy was shot In The signal to fire would be given 
• Dallas two months later. He sent . by mirror flashes. 
an offer to testify before the • The story caused a brief sen­
Warren Commission through sation at the time. The Manila 
"private channels" but received Times bannered: " 'JFK Plotter' 
no reply. • In Manila!" Wire service dis-
Dedicated Leftist • patches to the United States 
In his recent discussions with said Castillo was a "Cuban­
Popkin, Nagell has revealed tra.ined Communist agent" who 
new details about Oswald. He • hadn't shot because he heard 
first met Oswald, he said. in the that a m£in named Joe "had 
late fifties at the U.S. naval base • already shot the man in the 
at Atsugl, Japan, Where Oswald open car." The story was so im­
was a Marine Corps • radar. plausible that it quickly died. 
. specialist They became friends Not long ago the hypnotist 
but didn't encounter one· who conducted the interroga­
another again until August 1963 tion of Cas:il:O for the Philippine 
. when Nagell learned of the plot • authorities arrived in this coun-
agalnst t<ennedy. • · try under the name-Vincente A. 
·Disputing claims that Oswald Sanchez. When Popkin took a 
had ties with the CIA, Nagell lc;>ok at his reports, his eyes 
• believes that Oswald was a po.pped. . . 
dedicated leftist who was duped . The reports termed Castillo a 
by anti;.castro exiles involved in "z om bi e" --- a _h y p -
the conspiracy. Posing as·· noprogrammed robot. 
Castro G-2 intelligence agents, Double-Agent Network 
the exiles wheedled Oswald into Sanchez extracted Castillo's 
becoming a "fall guy" by playing rambling story over a period of 
on his Castro sympathies. pain- . weeks. Castillo, theri 28, was In­
ting Kennedy as anti-Castro and ducted .around 1960 into a 
promising that he would be "Special Operations Group" 
spirited to Havana after the which afforded him paramilitary 
assassination. training. In 1961 he participated 
Nagel! told Popkin he met in the Bay of Pigs Invasion, as a 
with Oswald both in Mexico City pilot for the CIA. Thereafter he 
and New Orleans, hotbeds of infiltrated a double-agent 
the anti-Cas_tro movement. network, • posing as a Com-­
"Nagell claims he has squirrel- munist in Venezuela and li­
ed away a snapshot of himself quidating a Communist agent in 
with Lee Harvey Oswald taken Mexico. . . 
in Jackson Square in New In talking about the JFK 
Orleans in 1963," Popkin as- assassination, Castillo - ' 
serted. '1n the picture are two despite some disjointed 
other men, both anti-Castro phrases - .was nevertheless 
• Cubans, who were pretending able to describe in some detail 
-• •--• uu""' '.'"'•• 111.> \,,VI UI Ut-tlgt:-rl(_·-- ~a--- -----. 
ordered, ''.1hey got him already. • 
Let's get out of here." After the 
rifle was disassembled and . 
stuffed ln the bowling bag, he. 
was hustled into the car which 
had brought him to tne building. 
It stopped twice within blocks to . 
pick up other men. 
In 1967, accor:ding to 
Sanchez. Castillo was 
programmed to assassinate 
Philippine President Ferdinand · • 
Marcos after openly associating 
with the leftist Huks - which 
would implicate them In the · •• ••• 
assassination. Popkin points • 
out that this Is a similar ploy to 
. the one Nagell attributed to the 
anti-Castro Cubans' use of 
Oswald.- . • 
Until recently, the Castillo 
episode· might have seemed a .· 
logcial impossibili.ty. But the·· 
release . of • the • Rockefeller 
Report, with :ts revelations 
• about secret CIA projects to in-
duce behavior modification In 
unsuspecting subjects, make . 
the possibility of a "Manchurilln • 
Candidate" • more than mere 
fantasy. (In the Robert Kennedy· 
assassination, Dr. Bemard Dia­
mond, who examined Sirhan 
Sirhan for the defense. testified· 
that he believed Sirhan • was 
hypnotized at the time of the • 
• shooting.) • 
Although • thg current.··· 
whereabouts of Castillo is un-
known, the Sanchez reports 
contain the names of six per-
sons who supposedly ran his 
network, including the "control 
officer" and a woman who hyp-
notized him. Popkln's own in- . 
vestigations have shown that ---""· 
these people do exist • 
Through Popkin their stories···· 
have now been passed on to the 
·Attorney General and the 
• Church· Committee. 
William Turner'& lattJst book, 
The Cuba Project. the story of 
the CIA 's secret war against 
Castro, will be published this tall 
by Houghton Mifflin. □ . 
. ! 
' ' 
I
I •. 
. j 
i' 
