" \1 
• .. 
Legal Counsel to Adams Memorandum 
Re: SENSTUDY 75 
•• 
\ 
made available to Congress. He felt that they should be given an opportunity 
to review these files prior to interview in order to refresh their memories. 
Mr. Wilderotter agreed and said that each agency should adopt a similar 
policy. • 
Mr. John M. Clarke, Associate Deputy to the DCI, asked 
whether anyone knew what John Elliff hoped to accomplish as Director of 
the Task Force on Domestic Intelligence. We pointed out that his earli~r 
writings would indicate that he intends to draft an int~lligence chart:er.· for 
the FBI, and perhaps the entire intelligence community. Elliff has. mag.e 
a comprehensive study over the past several years of the Bureau's internal 
security intelligence functions, including sources of the FBI's authority and 
the legal restrictions of its operations. This was the subject of a paper he 
submitted at the Princeton Conference in 1971, and he has since called fQr 
the establishment of legal standards for the Bureau's collection, retention, 
and dissemination of intelligence information. 
Mr. Buchen then requested that the FBI draft a proposed 
intelligence charter for the Bureau. He felt that it would be helpful fm; 
the Administr;:ttion to have a proposal available which it might use to counter 
any recommendations made by the Committee. At the end of the meeting 
Mr. Wi\derotter asked that a second paper be prepared reviewing all 
of Mr .. Elliff's articles on the subject of domestic -intelligence with th~ 
view toward identifying those issues which seem to be of major importance. 
With regard to Mr. Buchen' s request, we feel that it would 
be inappropriate for the Bureau to draft an intelligence chart_@r for the 
executive branch. It is the responsibility of the White House and other 
consumers of intelligence to define their needs and propose appropriate 
operating authority. We also question the utility of reviewing Professor 
Elliff's writings on the domestic intelligence functions. We feel a better 
course of action at this point is simply to ask.Mr. Elliff to define the goals 
and objectives of his task force. He has always been very candid and forthright 
and we have no reason to think that he would be reluctant to discuss the matter 
with us. In addition, it is likely his views on the intelligence function differ 
from those expressed in his earlier articles, and it is best to get his current 
thinking on the problem. If this approach proves unsuccessful, we can then 
resort to a review of his written materials. 
- 3 -
NW 38296 Docld:329895'88 85 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
CONTINUED - OVER 
