6J" - K 
SECTION 6. 
- ·P:ART II -
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AflD PUBLIC COlh·:A.CT.S 
referre·d to Bureau by local law enforceme-nt agencies or where Bureau (-
fugitives are taken into custody by local law enforcement officers. 
[. 
They should also be advised of violations of local laws coming to the 
attention of the FBI. 
b. Visits to Washington 
When the field requests special courtesies be afforded certain indi­
viduals, including law enforcement officers, coming to Washington, D~ C., 
the communication so advising the Bureau shall contain biographical 
data and a brief summary of information in the field office files 
concerning the visitoru 
When law enforcement executives are contemplating a visit to the Bureau 
at Washington,. D. c .. , ask them· to call ·_at the office of the [Assistant 
Director of External Affairs Division, Room 5634,]Justice Buildingo 
Co Letters of commendation, congratulations_, appreciation, and ~ondolence 
When._letters of commendation, congratulatior1s, appreciation, or.con­
dolence from the Director are recommended by the field, such recom­
mendatio~s should be submitted promptly. They should include the 
specific facts on which the recommendation is based, full identifying 
data and address of the citizen, and the result of a search of the 
field office indices concerning the citizen. [Form FD-468 may be used.] 
In connection with the election of officers of police associations 
at conventions covering more than one field division territory, the 
field division in whose territory the convention was physically held 
is responsible for submitting any recommendations for letters of con­
gratulations. The office submitting such request should summarize 
briefly the relations with these officers, incorporating any deroga­
tory data which might preclude such letters. Inasmuch as the recom­
mending offlce is not likely to possess all data, pertinent other 
field divisions sho1J.ld :;;ubmi t a Qrief, supplel]lenta-.1 ~u!l)I[\ary concerning 
officers recommended for letters who reside in.their territory. 
4. Inquiries concerning status of Bureau cases 
When a state official has expressed interest in the pr.osecutive status 
of a Burea~ case, for a legitimate reason, such as deferment of state 
prosecution pending the outcome of the Federal case, insure that such 
official is kept appropriately advised, including the final outcome 
of the matter. 
5. u. s. Cabinet officers, Senators, and Congressmen 
If an SAC receives an inquiry from a Cabinet officer or U. S. Senator or 
Congressman concerning an official matter, it should be brought to the 
Bureau's attention immediately. 
Ko SOURCES OF INFORMATION 
Definition 
,NW 38321 
An individual, orJanization, or concern willingly furnishing information to em­
ployees frequently enough to justify making a record where the source need not 
be protected. If occasionally the source must be protected, this may be done. 
If sources must be constantly concealed, they become informants or confidential 
sources and must be handled as such. 
1. Index 
Index card (3 by 5 inches) must be made up to contain: 
a. Names 
b. Addresses 
c. Organization or concern 
d. Type of information furnished 
e. Date of development 
Page 1094 •. 
6 
2-27-74 
( 
