13-00000 
-.,- r 
i er l .. 'j~.!.1 
5 June 1961 
MEMORANDUM FOR : THE RECORD . 
SUBJECT: Interview with Cl.ark Simmons, Chief of WH/4' s CI Section, 
1 June 1961 
(This memorandum should be read after Morales interview) 
1. Simmons is a dedicated CI type having spent the last 11 years 
chiefly on CI matters largely under <JrR auspices. He spent two years 
in Egypt, 19.54 to 1956, setting up and training the Egyptian CI Staff, 
apparently starting from scratch. He has been with <JrR since then and 
came to WH/4 • in mid-April 1960. He is about to be transferred to the 
WH Di vision Staff and bl.a replacement -will be Louis Napoli -who will 
head the new combined FI/CI Section of WH/4. He stressed that the 
charter of the new combined se.ction will give CI the right to interfere 
in any operation, This will be spelled out explicitl), thus countering 
the difficulties that Simmons bad in dealing with the PM Section prior 
to the invasion. Bob Andrews will stay on for CI matters. and Seehafer 
will head the FI part both under Napoli . • 
2. AMOI'S ( future Cuban intelligence service trained by Morales 
at Miami). This idea started when Anderson of WH Division Staff told 
Simmons that he had a.Chilean CI officer who was avail.able for training 
Cubans .. Drawing on his Egyptian experience, S1mmons drew the AMar plan 
and prepared the training materials and sent them to Morales for 
execution, It was .Morales who subsequently conceived the idea of 
training the AMFATS (future qifetvi~ 1, 1and the AMCHEERS, a reserve 
intel..lgence corps consist:tng 1S Sl:~r men. These matters are cliscussed 
in detail in my memorudum on rales. Morales also organized a group 
of former Cuban diplomats presently in Miami to have them available 
when a new government is set up. Subsequent to the invasion the AMOl'S., 
have been substantially changed by Cardona. He has replaced the top 
AMOI'S by poii ti cal appointees who have no skill in trade craft. The top 
men thus· fired had anticipated such a move, an~ in addition to micro­
filming 120,000 cards, they removed all cryptonyms and all memoranda 
of conversation between them and Morales with the result that the new 
service doesn't know the identity of .. the AMOI'S who are presentlyl~ 
Cuba.· The AM<Yl'S initially numbered 96. The Miami Base now bas/ 8"'to ' , .: 
22 of them of whom ~ four are inside Cuba with 14 subsources; all of . ..,..,r 
them producing FI and CI reports. By December 1960 the AMors bad ) L~4-..., (L. _, 
produced l,8oo intelligence reports and 750 radio monitor reports.· 
b 7 
(0.-1.,lt'\.- ,-r 
II '" 'l '"" ,.._ 
