( 
( 
( 
( 
NW 
SECTION 107 -J;ECTJP.I'/!'l I!lfORMAfTTS Al1D 
') 
C ON'FID ..... !, '.rIAL 
•· 
SOURCES lOi'E - F 
4. Recording investigative act:t -v-i·by 
All investigative activity must be made a matter of record in the field 
office files with all souroea of information being completely identified. 
Sources include all confidential informants - criminal, security,[and racial.] 
Agents must not have and use informants kno,m only to the individual 
Agents personally. 
F. • INDOCTRINATION, DIREC~?IOlf, AND COUTROL OF SECURITY UTFOR11ANT3 
1. Caution against divulging relationship 
a. Di.iring initial development and consistently thereafter, impress 
upon informant the absolute ~ecessity that he refrain from divulging 
through any media any information regarding his rela•bionship with 
Bureau. 
b. These instructions must be properly worded and phrased to prevent 
any possibility Bureau's being accused of attempting to impose 
censorship. 
2. Developing additional background 
a. During development of informant, additional da"i;a ·concerning his 
background should be continuously obtained from informant, 
b. After gaining :i.nformant 1 s confidence, info:i:-mation will be elicited 
which may be pertinent to his operation and may have effect upon 
his retention, such as data revealing he is mentally or emotionally 
unstable, -or has some personal problem which wou:ld make him a risk 
as an informant. 
3. Handling indiaations of instability 
a. Details of any indications of instabi~ity should be furnished ·to 
the Bureau immediately upon being obtained, with recommendations as 
to informant's continuance. 
b. Set forth the s·l;eps being taken to prevent any embarrassment to 
Bu.reau. 
4~ Contacts by Agents 
a. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters where the 
frequency of contact is dependent on the circumsta~ces of each 
case, informants should be contacted as often as necessary, but 
at least one personal co~tact should be made every two weeks. 
b. If such frequent contacts cannot be established, obtain specific 
Bureau authority for an exception .to this requirement (except in 
espionage and foreign ~ationality matters). In requesting such 
exception, set forth all attendant circumstances, 
c. Dux·ing each contact, informant's activities since previous contact 
should be carefully revi·ewed and the contacting Agent should make 
certain the informant has furnished in writing or verbally all 
informatio~ and data. which he has qbtained since the last contact. -
If additional or supplementary information is furnished during this 
contact with the informant, this information should be handled in the 
same manner as outlined in subsection G. 
d. Contacting Agent should become so well acquainted with informant 
that he will not breach the confidential relationship. If there 
is slightest indication informant may do so, Agent should be able 
to anticipate this action and forestall it. 
e. Contacting Agent s.hould not or:.J.y collect information but also direct 
informant, be aware of his ar. -l:i vi ties, and maintain such close rela­
tionship that he knows how ir.:fcrmant is thinking with regard to 
Bureau connection. This relationship should not be so reciprocal 
that informant obtains inform2.tion concerning Agent or Agent's 
business, personal or official. 
f. Good judgment must prevail il} handling informant to see he does net 
beoomri too familiar with Agent and later cause embarrassment to 
Agent or Bureau by using for his own advan·l;age such knowledge which 
he may obtain. 
g. Promptly advise Bureau of any indication informant is wavering in 
Bureau relationship. 
Docld:32989529 1336 
7 
1-13-64 
