1 PROGPESSIVE LABOR PARTY; 
P?OGR£SSIVE LABO~ MOVEMENT; 
"PROGRESSIV:S LAB0R" 
A source advised on July 2, 1962, that Progressive Labor 
groups held a conference in New York City on July 1, 1962, where 
MILTON ROSEl-1 2.cted as chair;l'l2.n. He read a statement at this con­
ference setting forth their intention to form a new Marxist­
Leninist Partv.•in the United Sta.tes. ROSEN stc.ted that a more 
forral organiiation was necessary, one which would provide a 
frarre~lork for all who.wanted to ,oin in a united effort to build 
an American vanguard. The functtons of this new organization 
are to consolidate all existin~ forces around ProP.ressive Labor 
and organize additional forces;. expand and improve political 
activities; win addi tiona.l forces to an outlook of tv!arxism­
Leninism and increase the open advocacy of socialism; develop a 
significant 1'1arxist-Leninist program for the new party; and 
organize a collective organization of leaders and members. 
"The worker," an east coast communist 
news?aper, issue of January 7, 1962, 
page 10, column 3, reported the expulsion 
of tiILTON f0SEN, former labor secretary 
of the New York State Communist Party, 
from t~e CoMmunist Party, USA. 
P. second and third source advised in February, 1963, 
that this new Ma.rxist-Leninist Party had not yet been organized on 
a. formal basis but that Progressive Labor groups had been formed 
in several localities in li~e with proposais of VI LTON ROSEN. • The 
sources advised as of February, 1963, that the leaders of this 
grou9 were referring to it as the Progressive Labor Movement. 
The "Amsterdam News," a 02.ily llfew York City newspaper, 
dated. ,July 2 7, 196 3, oage 22, set forth that the "Progressive 
Labor Party is a new political formation based on Progressive 
Labor ?fovement, a Socialist organization with groups in all pa-rts 
of the United States. The organization publishes a montl1ly 
magazine called Progressive Labor." 
The ,July-t,ugus t, 196 3, issue of "Progressive Labor" set 
forth that it is :publishec rr.onthly by Progressive Labor Com-pany, 
G.P.O. Box 808, Brooklyn 1, New York. 
APPENDIX 
13 
NW 38613 Docld:34528578 56 
