6H. 
[ 
[ 
[ 
·SECTION 6. 
- PART II -
PUBLIC.A.TIO.NS, PRESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CO.NT.ACTS 
(h.J If an.item to be submitted appears on more than one page of the news­
po.p.er, the words "Continued on page ... ," the subheadline on the con­
tinued page, and the words "Continued from_ page ... 11 should riot be 
mounted. 
(i.] Mounted clippings should read from top to bottom, column by column, 
from left to right. 
(j.] All clippings must be complete. 
[k.] Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted except ~-hai two copies 
of all items pertaining to .actual or possible civil rights violations 
and· racial matters should be forwarded. 
[1.] Include clippings with other mail being sent to Bur~au on the day 
·that the clippings appear in the local paper. Forward clippings from 
resident agencies th~ day they arrive at· headquarters city. 
3. Resident Agents must ·be alert for material appearing in the loqal press. 
4. Submission of publications of security interest to the Bureari. 
a. G.eneral principle governing submissions 
The Bureau desires to receive publications of security interest at the 
SOG for purposes of information, research, and intelligence. Conse­
quently, it is requested that evidentiary copies of· publications be 
retained in the field and only~nonevidentiary copies be_ fo~warded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. • . 
b. Manner of handling and forwarding nonevidentiary copies of publica­
tions 
(1) Nonevidentiary copies of newspapers, magazines, journals, 
p~riodicals, news bulletins, and books, obtained regularly 
(by subscription or repeated purchase) and forwarded to the 
Bureau, need not be identified. as to source. They should be 
submitted via ordinary mail by routing slip (marked for the 
attention of the Central Research Section) unless transmittal 
by c~ver letter has been specifically requested. Routing sl~ps 
.1 
may be used to notify the Bureau of routine administra~ive 
matters, such as temporary suspension of a publication (e.g., 
during summer months, lack of funds), temporary delay in obtaining 
or receiving particular issues of a publication, or otner informa­
tion which will keep the Bureau informed relative to the status 
( 2) 
( 3) 
of these publications ... To avoid confusion, nonevidentiary copies 
which have been marked for identification (source, Agent, date, 
and place of acquisition) should be further annotated: "Not . 
Evidence." 
Letters should be used in conne6tion with initiating action or 
ceasing action to obtain publications desired by the Bureau; to 
call to the attention of the Bureau specific items.of information 
connected with these publications; and in those instances in 
which good judgment dictates that certain circumstances or 
information should be ~ecorded in letter 'form. 
Each SAC and each leg.al attache must keep the Bureau, attention 
Central Research Section, informed on a curren~ basis regarding 
publications (including books) of potential interest.that are 
not included in the current list of publications which is 
supplied periodically to the field and to the legal attaches. 
These publications would include those published by subjects 
of security or counterintelligence investigations and publications 
which may otherwise have a security or counterintelligence 
significance. • 
Each SAC and each legal attache should insurj that the handling 
of publications for whic~ his office is responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. Subscriptions to these 
publications should be followed closely to insure that the 
publications are received at the Bureau on a current basis. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication in sufficient time to enable the 
Bureau· to determine the nece.s si ty for renewal. 
5a 
7-26-6'3 
1 NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 332 
\ 
