' ' 
SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE -
I 
/ 
/ 
SECRET 
Jaffe said he mentioned to Petrovskiy that Inna had 
told him Yuri Vinogradov is now divorced. Although Petrovskiy 
did not acknowledge that he was aware of this, he stated he~ ~ 
·was not surprised since he knew he had separated from his wife. ~ 
Yuri Vinogradov is now in the "World Organization Department" 
of the Soviet Foreign Ministry .as t1ar1 assistant to .an assistant. 11 
Jaffe got the impression that Vinogradov's job is not important.: 
. :eetrovskiy mentioned that Viku(?r Mikhailovich Sukhodrev 
and his wife also are now divorced·. Jaffe said she nad been in 
"show business$" Jaffe continue!d: uviktor decided he wanted a 
diplomatic career. He is working in the Foreign Ministry, but ~ 
whenevet' they need a translator, they grab him. 11 Petrovsk.iy 
indicated Sukhodrev is not happy with his new job because he 
likes to travel and nbe a big shot. 11 While working at the 
Foreign Ministry, Sukhodrev occasionally is used as an 
interpreter in important cases. 
' j 
·1 
j 
I 
j 
• Petrovskiy indicated that Vladimir Pavlovich Suslov () 
is now "what you would call policy planner for United States \....--. j 
affairs.at the Foreign Ministry. He has the title of Ambassador9 .1 
He has a very important job now." ··, j 
(Suslov has been identified by WF T-2, a former 
KGB officer whose bona fides has not been 
established but who has furnished reliable 
information in the past, as a Soviet diplomat 
·who is an operative contact of KGB.) 
J"affe said he learned from Petrovskiy that Yuri 
Nik.olaevich Chernyakov, Press Officer, Soviet Embassy, Washington, 
D.C., might be recalled. He also learned that Mikhail Nikolaevich 
Smirnovskiy, who used to be Chief of the . .American Department of lV 
the Soviet Foreign Ministry 11is ill 11 and has been replaced as \.__.---7 
Ambassador to England. Jaffe.got the impression it was a 
11political illnesso" 
Jaffe said Mira Petrovskaya is now working for the 
Aeroflot Section of Intourist in New York because "she decided Q_,,. 
she would keep herself busy." 
SECRET 
NW 31B26 Docld:32989104 
r 
