SECRET 
case of legitimate passports 9 most Latin American 
countries have inadequate personnel and adminis­
trative machinery to scrutinize the passports of 
returning travelers. 
4. Travel control in Mexico City logged 
4,912 legal travelers to Cuba in 1962, and 969 
in the first two months of 1963. (These figures 
do not cover access by other routes prior to the 
quarantine in 1962, and include Cubans as well as 
all other nationalities. Accordingly they do not 
correlate with totals for legal and illegal travel 
to Cuba derived from available reporting in the in­
dividual Latin American countries. It should also 
be noted that a "legal iv, traveler in Mexican reporting 
may be listed as an illegal traveler by his homeland, 
either because he had no authorization to visit Cuba, 
or because of fraudulent documentation.) 
5. Anniversary celebrations, goodwill tours, 
and international conferences afford pretexts for 
travel to Cuba ostensibly unconnected with subver­
sive training. Identities of trainees are usually 
protected by pseudonyms, at least during actual 
training, and the guerrilla candidate may return to 
his Havana hotel every few days to maintain a fic­
tion of sightseeing. There have also been reports 
that trainees have for cover purposes attributed ex­
tended stays in Cuba to detention by Cuban police. 
6. Prior to the October crisisP there was 
some direct travel to Cuba from Central American 
countries, and occasional Cubana charter flights, 
but the main jump-off points were Mexico City, 
Curacao, and Trinidad. A Canadian non-scheduled 
airline has operated a few flights between Canada 
and Havana, carrying both personnel and cargo. Cu­
ban freighters call fairly regularly at Mexican 
ports, and some Latin American trainees could reach 
Cuba aboard Cuban ships picking up rice in British 
Guiana. There is small ship traffic, of unknown 
but limited extent, between Cuba and neighboring 
islands. 
7. Soviet and Czech airlines continue trans­
atlantic service to Cuba, and Iberian airlines on 
11 February announced resumption of a schedule of 
two flights a month to Havana via the Azores. Aero­
flot has occasionally sought and received permission 
-3-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docid:32283208 Page 7 
