[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
• 
SECTION 6. 
PART II • 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, kND P~IG CONTACTS 
2. Requesting authority-for release 
a. By teletype 
.A.t least four hours before the time of release, developments in the 
case, an outline of the release, and statement release will be made 
UACB are to be furnished the Bureau. 
b. -By telephone where time is of esse~ce 
Confer with division head having supervision of the matter for 
investigative· clearance and· with the office of the division head of 
the Crime Records Division for final press clearance. While goo~ 
Judgment must prevail, in imp.orta.nt cases in which a local newspaper 
deadline is approaching, it may be ·advisable to telephone the Bureau 
for clearance. 
3. Press releases are to be made personally only by the S.A.C or in his absence 
by the .A.SAG. 
4. Releases are to be made both at headquarters and the local area affected 
by developments • .A.11 material prepared for the public must be reviewed 
word for word. It!is not to contain words or phrases which might be 
regarded as objectionable or offensive to·a member of any race, creed, or 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized wherever 
possible,'and all press releases should be coordinated to eliminate any 
avoidable delays. 
5. In. "the absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the public interest, 
no statement shoulfr be put in an announcement to the press to the effect· 
that a subject either has confessed or has admitted his crimes without 
specific Bureau approval. In case of doubt, consult the Bureau. When 
the fact that a subject has given a confession is included in a complaint 
and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press, a· "·no comment" reply should 
be given. The complaint is a court record and must be left to speak for 
itself. 
6. On-the-spot announcements by SAC a.re authorized in emergency situations 
in which good judgment so dictates. Emergency on-the-spot statements by 
.A.gents limited to their official identity a·nd, if known, the identity of 
fugitive or criminal in gun battle. If badly wanted fugitive apprehended 
in remote area and SAG absent, Agent may, in rare emergency only and where 
time of essence, furnish bare details. Contact by SAC with press should 
be effected im.~ediately where press desires further details. 
7. In the normal process of issuing press releases,[television and radio 
media should be merely provided with a written copy of the press release~ 
and ]Bureau personnel should no.t submit to live, filmed, ( or tape-
recorded interviews of any kind in connection with it.] Tact and 
diplomacy must be exercised in declining to participate in such interviews. 
8. In the absence of special circumstances, Bureau Agents should never suggest 
or request a reporter or another representative of a newspaper or similar 
publication to withhold the publication of news. In the event that special 
circumstances d9 exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bureau prior 
to mak?,ng any such reques.t; 
9. In ··cases involving bombings having an apparent racial or religious basis 
with the resultant public interest, the SAG s·hould issue a statement to 
the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to 
actively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them 
every possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the Bureau's full 
laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by handling 
out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts that 
may indicate any Federal violation. At no time should this statement 
indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction o~ the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility for 
the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance of this s+.ate­
ment requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, a.nd the 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
10. Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press 
release file if exists. 
la 
3-29-65 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 982 
( 
/ 
