• • St:CR[T 
Betsy palmer 
File Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero - Voltnnes I - XVIII 
11t1.0853 
Mey 1, 1978 
Volume XV - June 1964 ·' 
Jk.. 1. Intelligence Inf'ormation Cable, dtd 30 May 1964 - information from 
~ Rogelio Cisneros Diaz - as of 30 May 1964, Ray had not entered CUba. Boat 
to be used in final infiltration developed motor trouble. JURE reps vere 
tiald.ng all out effort to go to Ray's aid with replacement for boat and an 
additional supply of drinking water. 
1 
• ✓ • 
2. Cable to .JMWAVE from DIR, dated 2 June 1961, Ref: WAVE 7218 (iri 95616)* 
Please note similarities rumor reported Ref Para 2 and statement attributed 
to Rogelio Cisneros that CIA had instructed .AMWORLD boats to fire on JURE 
boats per WAVE 3691 (IN 41477). Is this significant? 
* Artime's follovers authorized to attack any of Ray's or Gutierrez's men 
on high seas. 
2. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE dated 3 June 1964 
St. George vere among the irnividuals arrested 
(Location of Anguilla Cay also used in cable). 
Tom Dunkan, Life photographer, also in group. 
~l stating that Ray and And.rev • 
by the British near Cayo Largo. 
Detainees taken to Nassau. 
:.,. Cable to DIR from J}frlAVE, dtd 4 June 1964 - ~AUP/2 reported that Ray's 
organization going to make press statement that Ray's failure to enter 
CUba 'Was fault of CIA. 
4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 6 June 1964 reflects feelings of CUban 
exile community over Ray's failure to enter CUba. 
a. Ray made a rool or himself by taking a girl and two non-CUban 
newsmen with him, none of wbome adapted to rigors of guerrilla 
varfare. 
b. - British and U.S. participated in Ray's capture 
c. Whole thing 'WaS a publicity stunt which vent "Wrong. 
,,_;d·. $nrique Huertas jubilant over ,Ray's\disgrace, but :feels it is 
a loss of exile prestige and harbingers bleak and hm,,less period 
e. Dr. Antonio Maceo says many have lost f.'aith in Ray for lack of 
accomplishment this past year. 
f. Ray is laughing stock. Those who had hopes now feel he is 
only au ambitious politicannot will to keep promises. 
g. JURE members confused and undecided over how to defend Ray. 
Alanis and 2arrage. wish to remove their f.'ollowers from JURE. 
h. Cisneros states to .AMTAUP that Ray will accuse U.S. govt of 
treachery £or cutting of:f economic aid one month ago and for 
searching his home, automobile and offices (Cisnero' s? )(Photostats 
in volume XIV) • 
SECRET 
