13-00000 
-
. • •. 
We wanted to know whPther he hnd been recruited hy the SO\•iet government 
as an intelligence a~E>nt, whi<'h is a frequE>nt and constnnt practice. There is 
not a year goes by but that indh·idunls and groups of-·indiddunls, s0111etimcs on 
these cultural exchanges, go through Russin nnd recruits nre enlisted by thE' 
Russian intelligence, usually through blackmnil. The indh·idunl is threatened 
that if he doesn't come back to this country and "·ork for them thE>y will ex1><>SE' 
the fact that he is a homosexual or a degenerntE> or has bE>en indiscrete. 
Pictures are usually taken of individuals who become implicnted in thnt sort 
of thing, so the individual is really desperate. Such hluc.-kmail has occurred 
year after year for some time. 
/ 
Jn Oswald's case we had no suspicion that any pre:-:sure like thn t hnd been 
brought to bear on him because he had ~one voluntnrily and hnd ob'f'iously 
wanted to live in Russia and had married a Russian woman . 
.,_ After those interviews had been completed, the next incident was the difficulty 
he had at New Orleans. We were concerned there as to whether he was 
functioning officially for the Fair Play for Cuba Committee which was financed 
and supported by Castro and Cnstro's governmeut, and if he was, where he 
obtained money and with whom he had dealt. 
He apparently had the leaflets printed himself on plain ordinary paper. There 
was no reason for us, then, to have any suspicion that he had any element of 
danger in him. , 
However, we did not ignore or forget the fact that he was still in the country. 
We kept track of him when he went from New Orleans to Dallas, and that 
was one of the reasons why Hosty went to the home of :\Irs. Paine. She told 
us where Oswald was working, at the Texas book hou-;e. Hosty gave her his 
telephone number and his name so that if there was any information or any 
eontact she wanted to make she could phone him at the Dallas office. 
Mrs. Oswald, the wife, took down the license number of Host.r's car which 
was incorrect only in one digit. The name, the telephone number, and the 
automobile license were later found in Oswald"s memorandum book. 
Howe'f'er, that in itself was n_ot significant because many times we will go 
to see a person and tell him now,· "If you think of anything you want to tell 
us or you have any information you want to give us, here are my name and 
address, telephone number, and call me," and that is whu,t was done with Mrs. 
Paine becaqse Hosty wasn't there at the time. He was at work. 
Incldental)y, those items in Oswald's notebook requiring in'f'estigative at­
tention were first set out in an investigative report of our Dallas Office dated 
December 23, 1963. This report was not prepared for this Commission but 
rather for investigative purposes of the FBI and, therefore, the· information 
concerning Bosty's name, telephone number and license number was not in­
cluded in the report as the circumstances under which Hoscy-'s name, et cetera, 
appeared in Oswald's notebook were fully known to the FBI. 
After our investigative report of December 23, 1963, was furnished to the 
Commission, we noted that Agent Hosty's name did not appear in the- report. 
In order tliat there would be a compl~te reporting of all items in Oswald's note­
book, this information was incorporated in another investigative report of our 
Dallas Office, dated February 11, 1964. Both of the aboveementioned reports 
were furnished to the Commission prior to any inquiry concerning this matter 
by the President's Commission. 
- There was nothing up to the time of the assassinati<:m that gave any indica- -
t 
tlon that this man was a dangerous character who might do harm to the Presi-
dent or to the Vice President. Up to that time, as hns been indicated. 
-i-- Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Hoover, may I interrupt, .rou· said Hosty was not there at 
the time, he was at work-did you mean l\:lr. Oswald? 
Mr. HoovER. That was my mistake. I meant Mr. Oswald. Hosty talked with 
Mrs. Paine and Mrs. Oswald. Mrs. Paine speaks Russian and she could inter­
pret for her. 
Oswald_ was at the Texas Book Co., and then, as I say, Hosty left his tele­
phone number and name, arid Mrs. Oswald for some reason took down the 
license number. I don't know whether she was convinced this was an agent 
of the FBI, or why she did it. 
112 
