......... .,, .. --"' .... w ,, • 
• • - . 24 May 1973 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Insp~ctor General 
SUBJECT : Rerorted Burglary of the Identity 61 
1. The press reported a burglary of Identity 61 13-14 
May 1973. An investigative report by an officer of the Executive 
Protective Service states that the ~ffices were ransacked and a 
nwnber of personal items were stolen. There were some latent 
fingerprints,. but no identification was made. The FBI, \vhich states 
that the incident was on 15 1v1ay, did not investigate because it _deter­
mined that if did not have jurisdiction. The Identity 61 
registered a formal complaint and American regrets were expressed, 
Identity 61 making it clear that they suspected something other than 
ordinary robbery. We have no additional information on the subject. 
There had been an earlier intelligence operation against the Identity 61 
which is described below. 
2. On 16 April 1971 the Agency-proposed to the FBI the instal-
lation of technical coverage of Identity 61 The opportunity 
for such an installation came about when a dom.estic asset. of Foreign 
Resources Division reported that he had been asked to subrn.it a bid 
for a contract to renovate Identity 61 Upon securing the 
contract the asset was willing to augment his \Vork force as a·ppropriate 
or install m.ateri~l which would be provided him. The Agency proposed 
tot-urn this asset over to the FBI and to provide technical and logistic 
support. • The value of such an operation to the intelligence· commt~ity 
was cited. 
3. On 23 April 1971 FBI Director John Edgar Hoover turned 
down the Agency proposal. That same day CIA Director Richard Hcln1s 
sent a letter to Attorney-General John Mitchell requesting that the FBI 
_turn<lqvm be reversed, citing t~1c importance of the Iden 61 target and 
national intelligence needs to collect positive intelligence. On 24 April 
the Attorney-General reversed the FBI decision and the Washington 
Field Office of the Bureau was instructed to proceed with the operation. 
\ 
NW 382'6 Docld:32989fi.24 Page 112 
