[ 
107T SECTION 107 , SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFI~~~TIAL SOURCES 
. , --
5. Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used for assistance in security 
investigations, secure Bureau approval, and background data must 
be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is required 
for potential security informants. 
b. Excep-t in espionage and foreign nationality matters in which the 
frequency of contact is dependent upon circumstances ·of the indi vidua.l 
case, confidential sources on whom pending files a.re maintained should 
also be contacted at least once every two·weeks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
~. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted. 
d. Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by the Agent 
or Agents specifically designated for that purpose. 
e. The letter to the Bureau requesting authority to use a subj~ct . 
as a confidential source is to set out clearly th~ following informa-
tion: • 
( 1} Background information, including date and place of bir-th, 
citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest 
record, and service record, if any 
·(2} Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together.with the results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
{3} A statement to the effect subject is being considered a con­
fidential source and that he will be advised he is not a. 
Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
ship with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should be made 
that you will be alert to be cer"j;ain subject is not a plant, and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters. 
f. One of the required copies of the letter requesting authority to use 
a subject as a confidential source should consist only of the first 
page of the letter. If the request is approved at the Bureau, a 
stamped notation will be placed on the single-page copy and it will 
be returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to 
consider subject as a confideniial source. Letters requesting s~ch 
authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subjeqt is 
sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background information 
obtained. 
6. Security confidential sources - certification of stability and payments 
a. Every six months a letter of justification (FD-401} should be sub-
• mitted to Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security 
confidential sources. See section[l30H,]item 2b, of this manual 
for form of letter. 
b. If the security source is not being pa.id on Bureau authorization or 
if he is not an employee of a foreign diplomatic establishment or 
an international organization and is being used regularly, the 
.Agent handling the source must dictate a memorandum to the SAC for 
th~ file containing the same certification as to stability and 
reliability as required by payment letters. 
c. If the security confidential source is employed by a foreign diplo~ 
matic establishment (embassy, consulate, United Nations }fission, 
etc.) or by an international organization {United Nations Secre- . 
tariat, Organization o:f American States, International Mone:l;ary 
Fund, etc.), a letter of justification (FD-401)]should be submitted 
to Bureau every six months. See section[l30H, ]item 2b, of this ·manual 
for form of letter. 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such actions might be 
misconstrued. 
a. Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau of the date when confidential source is discontinued, 
and the reasons therefor. 
28 
6-19-70 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1308 
.. 
( 
( 
I . 
