SECRET 
. -7- .. 
LAOS 
Current S.ituation Evalwition 
!he principal remaining issuiea before the,·ae·neva Conference, including 
·SEA'lO, having.been-resolved~ 1,t is anticipated that the new Accords· may be 
signed next week. There is nevertheless ·o~ 'serious stumbling block, wlbicb 
endangers the satisfactory conclusion of the ConfeJ"ence, i.e., the possible 
refusal ot the GVN to sigl!l, The GVN •s position stems from its belief that 
so many concessions have been made to the ·c.onmmn;tst.·s that the security of 
SVN is gravely threatened. We are, however, _hopeful.that Diem will still 
be persuaded that n have achieved the best obtainable· compromise tor Laos 
and that we stand firm on our commitments to SVN. • 
Progress on Action Program 
There has been little progress on our, action program. We are con­
centrating at present on the following problems: 
:: 
1. Economic Assistance. Elaboration ot our future aid to Laos awaits 
the visit ot Souvanu. Phowna to Washington, tentatively scheduled tor 
July 2,-27. In the· meantime, w seek t.o spread the burden of providing 
.Souvanna with the •terial assistance· be requires·by enlisting contribu­
tions from other Free World nations. 
2. RLO Diplomatic Relations . The RLO '. s decision to recognize , bloc 
countries and accept sn exchange of Ambassadors poses a major problem w1. th 
respect to the OVN. GRC, Feden.l Republic of Germany and the ROIL Further 
action by the RLG is deterred until Souvanne•s return to Laos. In the in­
terim ware attempting to assist.the pro-Western countries involved in 
establishing or maintaining satisfactory representation in Laos. 
3. ICC. We have asked our Geneva delegation to req1,1est the ICC to 
prepare a detailed budget and list of equipment needs so that• will be 
prepared to meet quickl.7 om- . &bare ot the requirement&. With regard to 
the es:sential heavy equipment - helicopters and light aircraft~ n are 
taking steps to make it 1-umediately a-v:aUable to the ICC.· 
• 4. MAAG Withdrawal. With the signing of the Accords, wa will seek 
Canadian cooperation in utilizing to the tull the. 7S-day period for the 
withdrawal of foreign military personnel. 'l'his will give us the ~ 
pcssible opportunity to determine whether the DRV is abiding by its 
commitments and whether the Soviets as Co-Chairman are- c8l'l'J'ing out 
their undertaking. 
1 
SECRET 
01·· 
\ . C\ _: 
'-·· 
