•' . 
ASSIGNI\1 €NT TO UNITS -
1\Iany people that inquire about membership in the s~cret ArmJ Organization 
seem to have an idea that they will be immediately .accepted into an active unit. 
Look at it this v,.1ay. • Suppose you had spent a year or more carefully recruiting and 
training until you had a hq.rd rutting team wi"!.erc every indivic?ual was reliable, dedi­
cated, and had confidence in his fellmv unit JrH~mhers. \V~1ulda.'t il make you mad to 
~ • . • •• a-,._• 
have the national or regional organization assign some .r:ank ath:iteur to your unit . . . 
that you you knew little or nothing about?· 
Befor~.m .. vnew memheris assigned to a:n active unit or to an important under­
ground project, .. hem:istunder;;o a perirn:f of training. D.u·ing this training he will be 
direcfod through the mans·b:; an experiencedmemherands::Hneof his activities may 
be observed by other members . without his knowledge. O.1.ly when a new member 
-proves himself to be conscientious~ trustworthy, self-disciplined and able to operate 
effectively alone will he be accepted as a nsecurc member" and invited to participate 
with ot11er unit members in a teamwork operation. 
· EXPENSES· 
-Unfortunately, -most good things don't com.-; cheap. Although we make every 
effort to ke~p rlo\v11 the-eJ>..-pense of mem"::}ershlp'in theSecretArmy Organization, you 
must expect to pay yo~ own way. 
t 
Dues to the Secret Army Organization are $3. 00 per month. This money is 
absolutely n7cessary for use to m2intain our central files and headquarters> for 
postage and printing, to finance our extensive intelligence-network, and to maintain 
training areas. 
- Each member will have other expenses depending on the type of activity he is 
engaged in. Every mem"'.:)er will be expected to buy his own gun, am '1lunition and 
other basic comhat equipment. During training the new member may be expected to 
buy certain books or subscribe to certain magazines that his work requires. During 
this tiine ihe new memher will also be supplied with reading material on the strategy 
and tactics of guerrilla warfare. Ti1is , homt~ work will make it possible for him to 
fit in quickly to an active unit and participate effectively in actual maneuvers, 
marksm~foship training.,. etc. 
Following this preliminary training a memher may be either assigned to an 
e::idsting unit, assisted in organizing his O\W1 unit if he has show.q. sufficient leadership 
qualities or become part of an underground network . 
... 
Upon your acceptance into the Seerct Army Organization you will be given a 
definite series of projects described ;«ll writing so you will know exactly what will be 
cxpcc.:tcd of you. 
We hope that you can succeed in this effort because your country desperately 
needs patriots at this time. 
Docld:32989574 38 • 
CONFIDENTIAL 
Secret At'm~T Org:mizaticn 
