107H -· 0 SECTI01:r ·107 • 
) 
• CURITY nnWRMANTS AUD SOvRCES 
b. Whenever a paid informan·I; and/or so1;.rcc becomes unemployed o:r hau 
knowledge of impending unomployment, disousn all f~cto with him and 
subrnit o"b::;ervations anc1 recommeuclations to Bureau. Unless advised 
to the contrary by the Bureau, follow recommended action. Ee.ch 
office tnust assume the responsibility of guarding against informant's 
accepting a. Bureau payment that would conflict with unemployment 
compens&.tion l:n1s. Jd; ·l;he same time, weigh seriously the possible 
reed for an informant ·l;o apply 2.nd accept unemployment compensation to 
p~oteot his security. Fellow members of the pertinent subversive 
c,:.-·ganization may be aw2,re of his unemployment status and would ezpcct 
him to apply. Where a s·l;2.tc requires notification of Bureau pay;n.ents 
to informants ·tha·l; would necessitate u.inolor.ure of thci:t· iucnti·cy·, 
then Bure::-.u paymmrl;s s:iwuld be ai scontinued du.ring the p er.:'~od they 
receive unemployment compensa·l;ion benefi·l;s. • 
9. Handling money and property receiTed by double agents 
a. Double ?..g'en".;s mnst turn over to ·l;he Bureau any money or property 
receiv~a fron their principals in connection with the double agent 
in·~elligonce ope::'",d;:i.o·• This should be m;,.de clear to the ctouble 
agent at the ii:(;eptio"· • t the opera·tion ( co1isider obtaining a signed. 
statement to t~is eff ·.). Exceptions tc this rule must be specifi­
cally approved by the :; ~:(·eau. Entirely : r•parate arrange.men·bs must 
be made for paymen.ts to double agen·l;s fo:..· services reno.ered to the 
Bureau. 
b. Any money or property received by a double agent from his principal 
rc .. •·r-esents possible future evidence anq the dottble agent should. 
ex,~,:ute a statement describing the money recei v-ed by type oi' currency, 
denomination, series of issue, and serial number and appropriately 
describing any other property received. This statement should be 
signed by ·the double agen·I:;' s code name. 
c. lfoney or -property recei -..reel from double agents should be retained. as 
evidence in accorc1ance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
a. Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from doubie agents 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refresh­
ing reoolleotion in the event testimony is later necessaryo 
O. SEMI.A11NUAL LETTER 
A semiannual letter should be submitted to the Bureau by each office as 
follows: 
1. List the symbol numbers of all security informants and confidential 
sources being paid under ·Bureau authority (not S.AC authority) for 
services .or expenses. If the confidential source has no symbol 
number, list his name. 
2 . .Also list the symbol numbe . ::;fall security in:forma1ir.s not paid 
under Bureau authority. 
3. Set forth an.y comments coi.:, .: ning the prc•·:c:nt ; .. ~;atus cf the informant 
covera.::.:c of the office, tc 0 '. :.her with informa+.; ,;n concerning whi:-.t actions 
are being taken to improve ·l;he security infor1r.., .. :~t coverage. 
4. As a separate section of the semiannual letter, list under flHeadquarters 
·Cityn and each resident agency all subversive organizations broken down 
into each division and unit thereof, such as clubs, committees, and 
chapters. 
Under each unit tr.•' approximate· membership, together with the symbol 
numbers and :posi ,.; :.-•1s· of security informants af:fording coverage, c;:0,,J d 
be set out. Wh,· -=,o informant co-vera.gc exists or where co-vera ;,, 
pro-vided by inf .. ·.:its or sources who are not members, such fa.c=-~::- • : .. ould 
be shown rela·!:: • .. ·o each unit. 
Semiannual letters may include any additional pertinent informatio~ re 
informant coverage that may be J::elpful in over-all evaluation, such as 
infor~ants in other divisions who are occasionally utilized and highly 
placed informa~ts who furnish area-wid.e, national, or in·ternational 
information. 
i NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1353 
22· 
5-18-62 
( 
