[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
87G 
6. 
• ~• SECTION' 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS 
(ab) Complete description 
( } Notation that security index flash notice has been posted 
in Identification Division 
{c) Photograph, with date taken. It is to be most current or 
best likeness of subject. 
(d) Dangerous characteristics of subject, including notation 
if subject possesses firearms . 
{e) Other data which will assist in apprehension, such as 
directions to residence or employment when these are 
unusual, number of minor children and aged de pendents 
(2) If descriptive data have not been obtained, case must be kept· 
pending. Upon posting of security index flash notice, field 
will be furnished FBI num:1er and fingerprint classification 
v:hich should be affixed to reverse side of security index cards 
filed in geographical, special, and unavailable sections. 
(3) Use FD-186 to report information for separate card attached to 
back of security index card. Case Agent should fill in form and 
forward to clerical employee d,:isignated to post inform8,tion. 
Thereafter, file FD-186 in case file. FD-186 may be used to 
record information that subject has been physically observed and 
to note descriptive data. 
Arrangment of security i~dex 
a.. At Bureau 
Entire index is maintained on IBM tabulating cards. Security index 
cards are printed by automatic data processing and transmitted to 
field. An alphabetical breakdown of true names and all aliases of 
subjects is also maintained at Burea.u for administrative purposes .. 
b. In field office 
Active security index in each field office is w~intained in four 
sections: geographical, alphabetical, unavailable, and special sec­
tions. [Complete set of each field office's Security Ind~x is also 
maintained in Headquarters city in a state of readiness to be evacu­
ated on a moment's notice in the same manner as geographical section 
with unavailable and special section cards filed in back. J 
(1) Geographical section 
(2) 
After receipt of three security index cards from Bureau and after 
necessary data have been added to two cards, file one in geo­
graphical section of index (except special section and un­
availa,ble section cards) and one in duplicate set maintained away 
from headquarters city. Geographical section is broken down by 
rasiclance address in accordance with needs of each office. Where 
logical, it should be broken down by state, county, city, and,· 
if needed, into boroughs or suburbs and precincts. Cards are 
.filed alphabetically under each geographical breakdown. Cards 
in this section will be wi thdravm and used by Agents should 
. apprehension of subjects become necessary. 
Cards will show "unknown" residence 
0
for (a) subjects ,·1hose 
addresses are not known but prompt location within division is 
~xpected and (b) subjects whose location in another division 
is in process of verification. File these cards in breakdown 
designated "Verification Pending." With Bureau authority, 
offices covering large industrial areas may set up second geo­
graphical section and file cards by subjects' employment. 
Depending on time of day apprehensions are initiated, geograph-
ical-employment or geographical-residence section may be used. 
Alphabetical section . 
File duplicate card alphabetically in this section; there is no 
other breakdown .. Alphabetical card is control card. If card 
is withdrawn from geographical section for apprehension, make 
notation on alphabetical card. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Pa_ge 1961 38 
.(_ 
• I 
( 
