13-00000 
' . i 
i 
' 
I 
i 
j 
... 
C 
SECRET 
EYES ONLY 
- 3 -
a continuing basis and cannot be subjected to a stop-and-go treatment. 
The DCI went on to say that any such activity is bound to be attributed 
to the United States and if we are to carry through with it, we must 
be prepared to accept the accompanying noise level. Be said that a 
sabotage program will not be entirely beneficial to U. s. interests; 
on the minus side, there is the fact that this will complicate the 
running of intelligence operations and it could result in Cuban 
retaliation. Additionally, Mr_. McCone said he is not in favor of 
extreme types of sabotage such as complete destruction of crops, 
contamination of water supplies, etc. He would prefer open inter­
vention to this kind of thing. 
The DCI said that the combination of economic and other 
pressures with sabotage activities, might provide a feasible climate 
for a successful attempt to fragment the Castro organization. He 
foresaw the possibility of such fragmentation leading to ass~ption 
of power by a military dictatorship, which would probably be friendly 
to the U.S. In this connection, Mr. FitzGerald said that we have 
a line on certain high-ranking officers who are not entirely sympa­
thetic to the regime. He pointed out, however, that a major opera­
tional obstacle to capitalizingon this situation is the difficulty 
of persuading individual Cubans of this type to place their trust 
in each other. In addition, we will have to be able to assure them 
that the U.S. will be sympathetic to possible successors to the pre­
sent government, even though such people may have been former Castro 
supporters. 
Mr. FitzGerald touched on the proposed support to selected Cuban 
exile groups, for autonomous operations, as being one of the key points 
of the possible new program. He made the point that there is no use 
in the U.S. trying to deny that it backs such operations, since it 
will be accused of this in any case, and the accusations will be 
generally believed; further, such a posture is not detrimental to U.S. 
interests. Mr. Bundy agreed with this point. Be added, however, 
that a 11scenario" will.have to be worked out, clearly indicating who 
in.the government should respond to accusations in this field ~nd 
what in general they should say. 
Mr. Bundy questioned a statement in the paper to the effect that 
covert action which might be used as a pretext for overt military 
intervention is ruled out. Mr. McCone and Mr. FitzGerald said that 
the purpose of this statement was to indicate that the covert program 
is not specifically directed toward the end of providing such a 
pretext, but that it is not intended to preclude such a situation if 
it should turn out to be desirable at some time in the future . .. 
Mr. FitzGerald then described a number of possible sabotage 
operations. In this connection, he pointed out that the paper con­
tains a proposal for the placing of limpets, carrying suitable delay 
mechanisms, on the outside.of Cuban ships so as to explode at sea. 
EYES ONLY 
