13-00000 
'\ •''j, . 
4. Describe any activity during the past 10 years in which you have engaged for ihe.purpose 
of directly or indirectly influendng the passage, def eat or modification or any legislation o·r 
affecting the administrati~n and execution of law or public policy. • 
When employed by Oppenheimer, Wolff, Foster, Shepard & Donnelly, in 1983, I rcpr¢scntcd 
business interests on workers compensation legislation before the Minnesota Legislature; and in 
1984, I represented a major communications company on tax legislation before the Minnesota 
Legislature. For both activities, I was registered as a lobbyist with the Minnesota Ethical 
Practices Board. 
Since being employed by the Minnesota Attorney General's Office, I have been inv.olvcd 
significantly in the development of legislation in Minnesota. including primary responsibility 
for the budget of the Attorney General's Office each year from 1986 to present: • I ·have also 
worked with the Minnesota Legislature on criminal justice issues, environmenta0,su~s. farm 
credit issues, consumer issues, government records issues, 1-bor issues 'and others. My wcik has 
included drafting legislation,.testifying before legislative comminees,·servingon task ·forces, 
writing legal opinions, and working with and advising staff,_ legislators, and governors. 
My entire employment experience in the Attorney General's Office has involved the. 
administration and execution of iaw or public policy. I have been the senior appointed official 
in the office for over seven years, responsible for the management of the office. None of my 
activities have involved any records dispute with a _federal agency or anything regarding 
assassination records. 
S. Explain how you will resolve any potential conflict of interest, including any that may be 
disclosed by your responses to the above items. (Please provide copies of any trust or 
other agreements.) 
I cannot imagine what conflict might arise, but_ if there is one 1 would not take pan in any 
decision of the panel affecting my conflict of interest. 
6. Do you agree to have written opinions provided to the committee by the designated agel)cy 
ethics officer·or the agency to which you are nominated and by the Office-of Government 
Ethics concerning potential conflicts or interest or any legal impediments to your serving 
in this position? 
Yes. 
D. LEGAL MA TIERS 
1. Have you e\'er been disciplined ordted for a breach or ethics for unprofessional conduct 
by, or been the subject of a complaint to uny court. administrative agency, professional 
association, disciplinar~· committee, or other professicmal group? if so, pro\'ide details. ' 
No. 
John R. Tunhcim Novcmbcr4, 1993 
' 
