13-00000 
. • 
0 
0 
0 
.• 
r 
ODO INSTRUCTION .•• 
NO~ 50-10. 
SECBET. 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONSsGENERAL: 
4 September: 1973. 
oper11.tionally feasible and without suitable. alternative, prior approval 
in the following cases will be !)btained as indicated below: 
(a) Any U.S. citizen who is a member of the academic community 
and who is associated in any .way with any U.S. or foreign college, 
. ~ uni~ersity or similar institution of higher learning; • • •• 
('b) ruiy_non-U.S. citizen who is a member of the academic:community 
and who is associated in any way with any U.S.-oWil~d or U.S.-
. affilia~ed college, university or • • titution of hi J) p 0 
ing which is located eithe in the United States r abroad. - ~:-' - n 
If .tlie individual is located in the Unite a es, approval will be re-V?~ 
queste.d by memorandum to the Chief, Foreign Resou:rces Division. 
The memoranc;lum will include a statement that the individual is, or 
is not, a DCD asset. or contact, and in . the event he is will inciude 
the concurrence of the Chief, Domestic Collection Division.· li the in­
dividual is located outside the United States, approval will be requested 
by memorandum to the Chief of the Area Division.who has jurisdiction 
over t;he· area concel'J?-ed.roperational use_ of foreign m.«:'~!>ers of. the 
academic community wh~ are not associated in any way with U.S.­
owned or· U.s.:~ffiliated institutions of higher learning is also eon­
sidered sensitive., The operational use of such individuals also requires 
-~e approval of the Chief of the Area Divis~n any.case involving. 
a well known person or having special security . implications, the 
Division Chief to whom the request is referred. tinder the above pro­
visions will consult with the DDO and obtain the latter's approval. 
( 3) The provisions of paragraph ( 2) do not apply to. Domestic Collection 
Division contacts with members of the academic community, but such 
contacts are subject _to the following requirements: 
(a) If a member of the academic community would be asked to per­
_form an _operational task or to alter his normal pattern of activity 
in order· to serve Agency purposes, prior approval of the Chief, 
Domestic Collection Division is required. Additionally, if such an 
individual will be in a foreign area, the concurrence of the Chief · 
of the Ai-ea Division concerned will be obtained. 
( b) Prior concurrence will be obtained from the appropriate Ai-ea 
. Division Chief if an individual is to be utilized in a politically 
sensitive area where his presence • or activities could potentially 
embarrass the interests of the U.S .. Government. 
,, ( c) The requirements of paragraph 8.a. • apply if a citizen or alien 
resident of the United States would be used in a denied area . 
. ( 4) At the end of each calendar year, Chiefs of Divisions· will submit a 
report . to the· Deputy Director for Operations ( via Chief, Fore'ign 
Resources Division) on the number of individuals recruited from the 
13 
SECMT 
