13-00000 
EP 65-951 
as an· advisor to the ROI< Arrly in Korea, and as a member of the 
US Aney Counterintelligence Corps in Japan. During the 
latter ·cour of duty, the counterintelligence unit t~as designated 
the·3rd Operations Group, with Hendquarters in Tokyo and 
Detachment B in Sendai, as l..""Cferred to in photographic inclosures 
• to your letter . 
. In assignments of tl~is natu·re it is common practice 
for members to become acquainted with personnel of various . • 
Japanese·securit:y. agencies, such as are mentioned in Mat"cb 
5 Mcmor3ndum of the FBI,.El Paso, Texas. It is· not:·unusual 
for individuals assigned couuterintelligence duties to retain 
lists of these persons for reference in the event they are 
again reassigned to· the are.1 > or for dispatching cards or 
:thank you notes fro::n the Unit:~d States. Tnis irould appear 
to be the reason for SUBJECT having kept the list of· agency 
personnel> although to have retained.the list for a number of 
years after leaving the service appears unusual.· .The names Kajl, 
Wataru and .Jack Cannon were known to the public as the results· 
of allegations of _illegal intelligence operations that were· 
publicized in .the .J~pane~e press,: but SUBJECT'S reason for 
including those names in HIS lists cannot be assessed. Also • 
. no reason can be given for t'1e two or three miscellaneous: ......... '""'' .•,.--
names in NAGELL'S file. 
The.· lis~ of .Americans mentioned in one of the· phot~graphic 
at_tachments pertains to US personnel in t:he intelligence field. 
It appears that the subject maintained a roster of those persons, 
with whom he would or had contact·, which . is not unusual. 
Information contained on those ro~ters • particularly that • 
• portion L.-idicating ~ode na=ncs, was and is regarded as classified 
information by this office. • ...... ,.:.,·,-,,,..,. 
Files, of.the Counterintelligence Repository, USARJ'. 
disclosed no· information· rela~ive to N.A.GELL or of his aliases • . '. . . • . -0,) 
• AT EL PASO, TEXAS: , 
On June 9, 1964, Federal Judge F.CHER THORNBERRY~ United 
7 •.. 
I 
i 
I 
;.,-
I 
f 
i '. 
