13-00000 
.. 
"1 ION 
c., ... '<'' ,--...,_ /4' (,-
"' (' 
~' ·?' ~ 
1} 
' 0 
~ u, 
Q 
~ 
ol'-
September 5, 1997 
BY COURIER 
Mr. John Pereira 
Director 
Historical Review Group 
Center for the Study of Intelligence 
Central Intelligence Agency 
Washington, DC 20505 
SECRET 
Assassination Records Review Board 
600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530 
(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457 
Re: Request ,to CIA to contact liaison channels regarding LIENVOY intercepts of 
Oswald telephone calls in Mexico City 
Some time ago the Review Board requested informally that CIA contact its liaison 
channels in Mexico City for information related to Lee Harvey Oswald. During your 
recent visit here we discussed with you the feasibility of your making such contacts. I 
am writing in response to your request that we memorialize our request and provide 
• some background information. 
The Review Board believes that all reasonable steps should be taken to account for aU 
telephonic intercepts of Oswald during his visit to Mexico City in September-October 
1963. There is evidence that CIA interce ted some tele hone calls through an operation 
believe that it would be • ct directl ~ 
named LIENVOY onducted ·ointly with components.of the • e '\ 
cha • uire as t6· t 
The Review Board previously has sought information from the Mexican Government 
through appropriate diplomatic channels. For reasons that are obvious to those 
familiar with Mexico City issues, the Review Board could not raise with Mexican 
officials nor with the U.S. State Department the possible existence of additional tape 
recordings that might be in the hands of certain officials. Thus, at the behest of the 
Review Board, the Department of State requested that the Mexican federal government 
and local government agencies conduct general searches of their files for records 
related to the assassination of President Kennedy. The Mexican government responded 
SECRET 
BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff• Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwe/1 
