l 
I ; ..... 
' 
' ;..; .. ~ . --, 
[107P 
P. 
Q. • ·SECTION 107. aru:!TY IN]'0RM.ANTS~.AND C0NFIDEN"'L }?URGES] 
., ~.) '.) t~ 
SIGNING OF LOYALTY OATHS·, Ab'I<'IDAVITS, AND S'l'ATEMENTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oaths.or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting Agent fully 
advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a 
forJn. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4. The Bureau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant I s activity; . however, such situations 
must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
5. Each such situation must be carefull-y considered and Bureau is to be 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed action. 
6. In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
a.. DISC0HTINUiD INJ!'0llliANTS 
1. When the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card 
( 11 cancelled. 11 Des troy the symbol card. Never des troy the name card. 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symb·o1· number 'in the symbol 
number index. The symbol number shall not be subsequently reassigne·d 
[ 
to another informant. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued 
potential security informant or confidential source to whom a symbol 
number was once assigned later is reactivated, remove ,his name card from 
the symbol number index, mark it reactivated with appropriate date, note 
thereon type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential security informant or confidenti~l source is "diicon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4. kdvise the Bureau when a potential infor.r.iant or informant is.discontinued 
s. 
6. 
.and the reason therefor. 
Advise .the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to testify 
in open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all _cases of security of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance with section[69F, volume III., of this manual.] • 
Re~iew the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Depart-
ment's interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available ?..S a witness are contained therein. In those cases in whioh it 
is evident the Department has indicated a desire to consider the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau in each such 
subs-tanti ve case, except in those cases in which it is o b-v-ious the sta-l;ute 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does not apply to security _of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the Bureau. 
7. A stn.temcnt shall also be made to the effect that the measures to con­
trol informants, set out in 8 below, have been consiltered and recoin.'llenda­
tions shall be m~de when it appears that such are warranted. 
a. When the services of an informant are discontinued, maintain close con­
tact with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Bureau's 
best interests. When an informant is dis continuecl, determine whether 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newspaper article, or other­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than making other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
l . 
• t I $ 
Nw\a~21 • Docld:329895~!r Rage·,:451 
) 
) 
