1 1 1 
! 
l I 
107I - K 
2. 
SECTION 10,. SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONF.N'TIAL SOURCES 
Communications - use -of symbols 
a. After Bureau is advised of the permanent symbol, in subsequent 
communications ·!;rue name of informant should not be set forth; use 
symbol number. 
b. In all communications af·her the initial letter, Bure-au and field 
office file nµmbers for informant must _be set forth. 
o. In communications between offices, the same procedure is to be 
followed. . 
d. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis for Bureau business or for personal reasons 
should be referred to in initial letter to interested offi-0e 
by true name _and symbol number if it is necessary for the other 
division to know the identity of the informant. Office receiving 
such letter should make appropriate index cards and place same 
in "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" index .. Subsequent 
letters between interested offices may then identify indivjduaY 
by symbol number only. 
( 2) Individuals who leave the di vision where they have been furnishin·g 
information and do not plan to return should be immedia·l;ely 
disconi;inued, thei.r symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name should be used in all administrative 
correspondence. 
(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and· remains 
active, his identity must still be protected. 
e. In communications, the -l:;eletype abbreviation for the field office, 
symbol, and letter suffix 11s1r shall ·be shown to identify ·hhe informant; 
e.g., "NY 000-S. 11 
f. In communications concerning a· potential security informant, the 
name of the potential security informant and abbreviation "PSI" 
shall be used; e.g., 113ohn Doe, PSI. 11 
g. Similarly, in cornmunica"tions relative to confidential sources, the 
abbreviation "CS" should be used; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS, 11 
h, When symbol numbers are assigned to potential security informants, 
the designation should be as follows: "LA 000-PSI." • 
i. In communications relative to a confidential source having a permanent 
symbol number, the following should be used: "CS LA 000-S ; 11 
j. In espionage and foreign nationality matters the caption of the 
communication should show in a~dition a character and the country 
designation (i.e., IS - R for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.J. 
This facilitates routing"the mail at the Bureau. 
:r. INDEXING 
i~ True names and aliases of all informants, as well as the cover name 
[ assigned to them for informants 1 use in submitting their statements, 
but not their permanent Bureau symbol numbers, shall be indexed in 
the general office indic~s in the same manner as any other name. 
2. These index cards should show the file number of the informant and 
such terms as 11Informant 11 or "Potential Secu:r:ity Informant" shall not 
appear. 
K. INDICES 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol numbe_r inde";;c 
a. Alphabetical name index 
(lJ In all offices all active potential security and security 
informant cards are to be kept by the SAC, AS.AC, or security 
supervisor consistent with maximum security and best admin­
istrative practice. This is to be known as the alphabetical 
name index. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
(2) File these cards in alphabetical order and also include card~ 
for security confidential sources. These cards should show 
whether the individual is a potential informant, an informant, 
or a confidential source furnishing information on security 
matt·ers. 
1572 
14 
5-12-61 
