14-00000 
SECR:1!,;T 
SUBJECT: JFK Declaration of Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr. 
databases. Unfortunately, there is no way of 
retrieving these cables through a reasonable search 
using any generic or specific term, since cables were 
not captured by any organized filing process. 
CIA - 14 - Mexico City Station.Annua1 Reports 
(U} The DO was asked for specific annual reports from 
Mexico City. 
(S} We informed the ARRB that we were successful in 
locating an official DO file which contained station 
"annual reports" for the years 1957 through 1973. The 
file included two dispatches which forwarded the RMDs 
from Mexico Station for the years 1960 and 1961. 
However, the RMDs, which were sent as separate 
attachments (sent in a different pouch from the 
covering dispatch memorandum) were not present in the 
file. (NOTE: Attachments which contained true names 
of CIA officers or assets or information that would 
identify operational sources with CIA were customarily 
sent in separate transmissions as a security measure if 
a pouch(es) were compromised). We also note that in 
a speed letter, dated 1~78, written by DDO/LA/STB to 
OLC, that the RMDs for Mexico City Station, for the 
years, 1962, 1963, or 1964 could not be located. 
(S) Based upon further review, we are providing an 
updated response to the ARRB as follow: The only 
report that was annually required of a station was that 
relating to its ability to meet its mission directives, 
now called "operational directives". These annual 
reports called the Station's "Relative Mission 
Directives" (RMD} were used to compose an overall 
annual division or staff submission to the Deputy 
Director for Operations, as an evaluative tool. The 
RMDs, themselves are a summary of station activities 
reported to Headquarters in other correspondence during 
the course of the year, were used to compile a division 
level evaluation--in a sense, an annual report card--on 
how it was doing against operational requirements. The 
station reporting was extracted into the larger 
13 
~ 
