( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
87D 
. ---) 
SECURITY INVESTI~.JI.Tiv •• 
classified contracts with the key facility. Copies of reports 
for the Marine Corps should be disseminated locally to NISO. 
Dissemination to the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC}, Defense 
Atomic Support Agency (DASA) (formerly Armed Forces Special 
Weapo11s Project}·, the Research and Development Boa.rd (RDB}, 
and the Maritime Administration (MA.) wil~ be ma.de at ·the · 
Bureau, and not in the field. 
(4) Status of cases 
After all active investigation conducted, place in a.(pending-
• inactive]status. Forty-five days before report due, make ca.so 
pending active and check with armed services. representative at 
the key facility or with other reliable sources to determine 
whether subject has access to classified or restricted material. 
[(Also see Manual of Rules and Regulationi, part II, .section 4D, 
item 2a, (6), and section 4M, item 4, for ins.tructions concerning 
. synopses and classification of reports in key facility cases.}) 
d. To~ functionary program 
· . • (1} General 
• Purpose of top functionary program is to select for special 
attention those individuals in a subversive movement who a.re 
(2) 
of outstanding importance to the effectiveness of the movement. 
Top functionary program is described below as pertaining to 
the Communist Party, USA. However·, it also applies to important 
individuals active in or on behalf of other basic revolutionary 
groups, subversive organizations, or unorgan~zed groups who 
have indicated a propensity for violence. . • 
Definition of top functionary 
A top functionary is an individual, either a. member or a 
nonmember of the Communist-Party, t~ whom, because of his 
importance, it is necessary to give continuous investigative 
attention in order to keep abreast of communism on a.­
national basis in the U.S. Necessarily, such an individual 
would be on a high policy ~evel in the movement. This also 
applies to an individual, either a member or a nonmember 
of other subversive organizations or unorganized groups, 
who would be on a high policy level in the movement. 
The term "top functionary" is not to be construed as re­
quiring that individuals in thi3 category must actually 
hold official positions in the organizations but shall 
be given a broad .enough construction to include others who 
are of equal importance because of their influence in the 
movement itself, or their position and activities outside 
the party in labor, front, or similar organizations or 
movements. Black nationalist extremists whose -importance 
justifies continuous investigative attention should be. 
considered for designation as top functionaries. 
Manner of designa·bion of top functionary 
Prior Bureau authority necessary to designate a subject 
as a top functionary. Submit such recommendation to Bureau 
by letter containing reasons for the recommendation. Bureau 
desires to be very selective in this matter and to !concentrate 
on individuals who, on a national basis, .. are the guiding 
hands in the communist ;movement and other subversive move­
ments. Top functionaries are to be included in priority I 
and reports are to be submitted in accordance with 87D 
7f (2). 
C 
66 
10-14-68 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 2067. 
( 
/ 
i. 
I 
\ 
.i 
i 
! l 
I I 
·1 
l 
I 
. I 
