13-00000 
MAR 18 '97 06:54PM P.S 
SECRET 
Question # 9: 
Various open sources have linked the CIA to various journalists and publishing.· 
companies during the· 1960's. How could a query be framed to search for connections 
·between the Agency and Journalists or publishing companies? 
The two 1967 Rampa,m articles mention connections between the Agency and .. 
journalists worldwide. The primary focus of this question is on any connection between 
the Agency and any joumalist who might have covered the assassination domestically. 
Additionally, we would be Jnterested in any publishing company involved in ,. 
publishJng books about the assassination. HSCA staff notes (RIF 180-10142-10087) 
summarize several files dealing with contacts between. the Agency, publishing houses, 
and authors .. For examEle, the file identified as QKOPERA/Liaj.son ZRBLESS outlines 
a memo by~BeEmi"'jji)CA/PROP on the status of negotiations between·· 
{ria_u~r-.:l~~1blfsliih.sfand Mllovan Djilas. ZRBLBSS is identified as a subEroject of 
WUBONBON. Further, the staff notes mention a project involving •~raegei)and 
publication" [sic], a separate project involving "the Preedom Fund anadfstn'bution" 
[sic], and· a third ~roject to provide news service to the foreign press through 
[ContinerttalPressl Each of these projects appears to have been in operation in 1963-64. 
Question# 10: 
Did the Agency have any relationship, projects or contacts with publishing houses , 
during the time of the assassination and in the aftermath of the Warren Commission? 
How would a search be formulated to determine whetha or not the Agency had a 
relationship with .any-of the same publishing houses that were also publishing books 
about the assassination? 
This question ie a follow up to question# 9 .. One record that is already in the collection 
• (RIF 180-10142-10087) summarizes the Project File o~ WUPUNDIT and notes two 'one 
time only' operations in 1963-WURAISIN and WUTRANSIT which were responsible 
for publishing two books each. In addition, WUSENDER is reported to be a 'one time 
only' operation responsible for three books in 1964. If these books have domestic 
implications or are on subjects related to the assassination, they would be relevant 
documents. 
We hope that this additional explication may help you and the DO understand our 
approach to the issues raised in our questions. Should any of our requests impose on 
you or your staff a burden that we may not have anticipated --or which would entail 
work of dubious value or benefit - please advise us so that we can work with you to 
modify or amend the requests accordingly. 
SECRET 
