14-00000 
·. 
DECLARATION OF MARY LOU CUMMINGS > ..... 
I, MARY LOU CUMMINGS, hereby declare and say as follows: 
1. I am the Information Review Officer ( "IRO") for the 
offices of the Director of Central Intelligence (CIA). I 
was appointed to this position on 5 January 1998, and have 
held various administrative and professional positions 
within the Agency since 1981. I am responsible for the 
.,. review of records maintained by offices in the DCI area 
(Offices of the Director and Deputy Director(DCI&DDCI-), 
Community Management Staff (CMS), National Intelligence -~-- _.,. 
Council (NIC) , Office of the Comptroller (C0MPT) / .Pffice-;.Pf," 
the General. Counsel (OGC), Office of Congressional • • • i ,, 
Affairs (0CA) , Office of the Inspector General ((jIG)_, Office· , 
of Public Affairs(0PA), Arms Control Intelligence 
Staff(ACIS), and Center for the Study of Intelligence(CSI)) 
that may contain JFK Assassination records and may be 
responsive to ARRB requests. 
2. By memo date 6 April 1995, the Executive Director (CIA) 
requested that focal points for each Directorate be 
appointed to be responsible for responding to requests for 
information from the Assassination Records-..Review-.Board­
(ARRB); Until that time the Historical Review Group (HRG) 
of the Center for the Studies of Intelligence (CSI) had been 
the principal liaison with the JFK Board. As of that date, 
DCI area/IRO was appointed to be the DCI area focal point. 
Irn.G would continue to receive requests from the Board 
forwarding them to the Directorate focal point for action. 
Responses from the Directorate were coordinated by HRG, 
which then made the responses available to the Board. 
3. In an effort to understand the DCI area records systems 
and to ensure the conduct of thorough searches and responses, the 
ARRB staff requested a meeting with the DCI area/IR0 and key DCI 
records management officers. Detailed questions were presented in 
advance to CIA personnel who then provided complete responses to 
the ARRB staff during the summer of 1997. At that time HRG 
instructed my predecessor to wait for formal taskings from ARRB 
before proceeding with additional searches. 
See Attachment 1 
4. Based on personal knowledge and information re fleeted in 
the records of the DCI area/IR0, I am aware that the 
following searches and reviews were conducted in response to 
Board requests for DCI area records. 
