ROBERT G. BAKER 
FRAUD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT· 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
The most recent development re·lative to the trial 
of Baker is the disclosure in the afternoon edition of "The 
Evening Star," 1/12/67, that the Narcotics Bureau of the 
Treasury Department installed a "bug" in the Baker case. It 
is reported that this installation relates to the Department's 
admission during the trial that it had planted a microphone 
and transmitter on Wayne Bromley, a prime Government witness, 
in order to record the results of a meeting held on 3/26/65, 
at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel, Los Angeles, California, which 
was attended by Baker, Clifford Jones and Bromley. The 
article points out that the FBI had refused a request of the 
Department to cover this meeting. It also points out that 
, according to Edward Bennett Williams, Baker's attorney, that 
in compliance with an order of Judge Gasch to turn over tapes 
and transcripts, only notes made by two ·monitors were received 
indicating the tape was not usable or available. • 
This meeting at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel is the 
meeting which was arranged during telephone calls on 3/25/65, 
between Bromley and Baker and Bromley and Jones which were 
monitored and tape recorded by the Bureau at the request of 
the Department, with the Department's assurance that such action­
was legal and with the written consent of Bromley. A complete 
transcript of these recordings was made available to the 
Department. 
Although the Depa~tment did on 3/25/65, request that 
we monitor the meeting iµ Los Angeles, we refused to do so. 
Upon revelation during pretrial hear.ings that this meeting 
was monitored, Act1.ng Attorney General Ramsey Clark w.as questioned 
as to who performed this monitoring. He ·stated that he had ascer­
tained that upbn the FBI's refusal to comply ~ith the departmental 
request, the Department had then turned to~ither the Immigration 
and Naturalization Service•(INS) or the Bureau of Narcotics. 
He was certain that it was the Bureau of Narcotics. 
-The only other coverage of any conversations by Baker 
was accid~ntal in nature and resulted from installations which 
had been placed on Fred B. Black in Washington, D. C.; the 
F remo.nt Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada; Edward Siegelbaum, Miami, 
- 19 -
.. 
l----· --
NW 3 
Page 457 
. f. 
