6L 
4. 
) 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
11. 
12. 
SECTION 6. 
A PART II A 
pu:!rcATIONS' PRESS' AND PUBLIC CON~TS 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not ~re­
posing individuals w~o because of business connections or personal 
activities or close association with other persons will be involved in 
unfavorable publicit·y or become the subject of adverse investigative 
activity, or who will capitalize on their friendly assoc·iat:i.on with 
the SAC. 
Except where a suitable file is already in existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
A three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained in an SAC 
contact box in the exclusive pos.session of the SAC. Each card is. to 
contain: 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telephone numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any comments which would. be helpful in handling the individual 
e. Date of first contact and name of SAC first developing ~he contact 
. ( Show in the lower left corner on the front of the card. ) 
f. Dates of contacts by the SAC (to be entered on the reverse side of 
the card in longhand). Contacts more frequent than quarterly should 
not be 1.isted. • 
g. Any necessary descriptive data 
Each contact is to be indexed in the general indices. The card is to 
show the name ·of the individual, date of preparation, and the notation, 
"See SAC. 11 
SAC contacts located in headquarters city must be contacted at least three 
times each year; those located in areas regularly covered by road trips 
out of headquarters city or locate_d in resident agencies must be contacted 
at least two times each year. • 
Advise Bureau immediately when a contact is discontinued UACB. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city located within another 
field division, a copy of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
should be designated for that field division. Also advise field division 
.. of background info:rmation re cp_ntact. . 
Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of SAC contacts. 
Each office must submit a complete roster of SAC contacts to reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and November each year. If there are 
any changes in address, employment, or other pertinent data, such informa­
tion should be set forth. If there is no change in status, so state. • 
From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more "FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indication that ·such 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay, 
Immediately upon assuming the duties of SAC, .such SAC should visit all 
persons listed as SAC contacts and in addition leading officials located 
in the field division. • 
8 
12-29-67 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 184 
t 
(_ 
