. ' . 
NW 3 
. Page 487 
• I 
0 
COMMUNIST PARTYf USA 
The Communist Party, USA, is operating in an 
atmosphere of optimism as a result of the March 3, 1967, 
decision of the United States Court of Appeals, Washington, n.c., 
which. stated that the Party could not be forced to register 
under the provisions of the Internal Security Act· ·of 1950. 
The feeling throughout the Party is that it ·has won its fight 
for existence and now must move to capitalize on this victory 
by becoming an effective force on the American scene. 
Within this week the Party adopted various programs 
in an effort to move out of its isolation from the American 
people. It is wor.king toward the establishment of a daily 
newspaper which is expected to be in operation in time to 
have an effect on the national elections in 19680 Originally, 
the Party planned to merge peace, labor, and civil rights· 
groups into a new political party which would nominate a 
candidate for President of the United States in 1968. Now, 
the Communist Party is seriously considering running its own 
candidates for the offices of President and Vice President of 
the United States in 1968. 
May 1, 1967, is to mark the institution of a 
massive recruiting drive by the Party to ta.ke.advantage of 
the favorable Court decision and each Party district is ·being 
instructed to start making plans for this recruiting drive 
now. In addition, Party leaders have called for more infil­
tration by Party members into the trade union movement in 
an attempt to· regain the power the Party had in this movement 
in the 1940's. • 
The Party believes that youth must be the central 
concentration for its work in the future. In order to have 
the most impact on the young generation and to gain recruits 
quickly, the Party must make an effect·ive appeal to youth. 
Therefore, it is instituting a massive campaign against 
United States policy in Vietnam, instituting resistance to 
the military draft, and encouraging all cypes of demonstrations 
by youth. The Party also will start a movement to have Congress 
pass a bill guaranteeing full employment for all youth • 
... The Party considers recruiting of youth its most 
importal\,t project in 19670 Current plans call for doubling 
the number of youth in the Party during the Summer of 1967, 
and the nationwide establishment of Party schools to fully 
indoctrinate these youth recruits in the principles of 
ltarxism. 
• -- -------- ----- --------- ------- - . -------------- -----
I - ~· 
j .... ··~~: 
_, , .... 
