13-00000 
In 1969 Lums purchased the Ceasar's Palace Hotel 
an~ Casino in Las Vegas for $60,000,000. A month 
later the Nevada state gambling authorities were 
looking into the hotels' "catering to twelve under­
world figures from Kansas City". 
A few months after the purch~se the SEC filed 
suit charging Lums and Ceasar's Palace with "false 
and misleading" statements. The SEC wondered how 
Ceasar's managed to lose Sl,O00,00O in five months 
when the previous year (before Lums bought in) there 
was a $2,200,000 profit for a comparable time period. 
The SEC also questioned Lums concerning the 
$3,500,000 Lums paid one Jerome Zarowitz, a convicted 
professional sports fixer who wasn't even list~d as 
an owner of the casino. Top officials in both Cea­
sar's and Lums have been under investigation by IRS 
intelligence in Miami and by.Nevada gaming authori-
·~ in cases involving organized crime ever since 
Rogers' firm took on the Lums account. 
There is also the question of the 1971 Lums ac­
_quisition of a North Miami housing resort develop­
ment called Sky Lakes. Both Sky Lakes and Ceasar's 
Palace have received large sums of money from the 
Teamsters - $12,000,000 for the Miami project and 
more than $16,000,000 for Ceasar's Palace. 
With things going slowly, Lums announced plans 
for a new $22,000,000 casino next door to Ceasar's 
Palace. In December of 1971 the company decided 
that the whole restaurant idea was no longer worth 
the trouble. In a classic climax to a classic Amer­
ican success they changed their name to Ceasar's 
World Inc. and sold their hot dog stands. 
Meanwhile the Secretary of State's old law firm 
reaped a bundle with their new-found involvement in 
the Las Vegas underworld. With such stunning suc­
cesses at home, one wonders what a firm with a link 
to the Secretary of State could do abroad, in places 
like the Bahamas or Vietnam, for example. 
Nor do the underworld implications of big names 
surrounding Nixon end with the Secretary of State. 
Murray Chotiner, a long-time Nixon aide and archi­
tect of his early smear campaigns, has past links to 
the underworld. In 1962 Drew Pearson and Jack An­
derson wrote that "Chotiner ... besides representing 
the top gangster of Philadelphia, Marco Reginelli, 
represented a long and amazing list of hoods, con­
cession peddlers, income tax violators and others 
needing influence in high places ... " It was Chot­
iner who brought Frank Vitale, "once involved in 
the biggest bootlegging conspiracy on the West 
Coast,"ontoNixon's special plane to Moscow in 1959. 
Nixon's recent appointment of Walter Annenberg as 
Ambassador t? En~land also echoes the themes of un­
derworld involvement. Annenberg and his father were 
indicted in 1939 for "aiding and abetting" in con­
nection w~th their wire service operation inChicago, 
an operation run with the protection of Al Capone, 
for which the Annenbergs paid $1,000,000. The An­
nenberg family wa1 also a major contributor to Nix­
on's 1968 election campaign. 
Further back in the Nixon saga, and closer to his 
sou!hern California birthplace, lies San Diego fi~­
anc1er, C. Arnholdt Smith and his bookmaker partner 
John Alessio. In 1946 Alessio and Smith introduc~d 
Nixon to another bookmaker named Lew Lipinsky. Lip­
insky, who was convicted for bookmaking in 1938, 
served for three decades as a go-between for the 
Smith/Alessio interests to their syndicate·connec­
tions. 
Some of the dealings of the Smith/Alessio combine 
were brought to national prominence by a recent LIFE 
magazine article which accused Attorney General 
Richard Kleindienst of "tampering with justice" in a 
case involving Alessio. According to the Wall Street 
Journal, Smith raised $1,000,000 for Nixon's 1968 
campaign. He and his wife took the first position 
on the receiving line behind the President at the 
White House inauguration. 
Mora of the Same in California 
Nixon's other favorite resting place besides Key 
Biscayne is the area near his birthplace in southern 
California. Here the underworld pattern of his 
Florida involvements repeats itself - in a strik­
ingly similar pattern. 
One story there involves Nixon's multi-million­
aire backer, C. Arnholdt Smith, and the Del Charro 
Hotel in La Jolla, just north of San Diego. 
The Del Charro was a favorite stopover for ~ixon 
in the Fifties. Owned by the ~lurchison brothers, 
who also owned the nearby Del Mar race track, the 
hotel played host to numerous Detroit and Las Vegas 
gangsters. Alan Witwer, a former- manager of the 
hotel, has alleged in statements to this repotter and 
·others that the hotel served as a secret meeting 
place for politicians and assorted business inter­
ests, some of them from the underworld. Witwer spe­
cifically cited a 1954 meeting attended by ~ixon and 
chaired by a leading member of ITT. He also claimed 
that there was a bookmaking operation at the hotel, 
but has offered no documented proof. 
Mrs. C. Arnholdt Smith is a permanent resident of 
the Del Charro, and the hotel's visitors have in­
cluded John Connally, Barry Goldwater, and J. Edgar 
Hoover. Hoover's $15,00O-a-year bills were picked 
up by the stockholders o! the Murchison interests. 
The fact that certain of Hoover's good friend~ 
rubbed elbows, rather warmly, with Meyer Lansky, and 
the fact that the nation's leading crime fighting 
agency - the FBI - has come up almost blank in its 
fight against organized crime may not prove anything 
about Hoover. On the other hand, these facts don't 
make it any easier to dismiss questions which might 
arise about the influence of organized crime at the 
highest levels of government. 
North of the Del Charro and thirty miles south of 
the San Clemente White House, lies the mammoth La 
Costa land resort development. The development is 
tied to both Smith (his daughter is a director) and 
to the Teamsters. 
LaCoste was originally developed by Cleveland 
syndicate reliables Allard Roen and ~loe Dalitz. The 
development was reorganized in 1968 to bring Team­
ster control more in line with their investments, 
which already exceeded $18,000,000. Like Sky Lakes, 
its Florida counterpart, La Costa attracts a whole 
range of figures from organized crime. La Costa 
visitors have included Willie "Ice Pick" Alderman, 
a St. Louis mob cohort Morris Shenker, and Wall ace 
Groves and Lou Chesler of Bahamas fame. 
According to eyewitnesses, when Gr~es' helicop­
ter sets down, the red carpet is rolled out. It may 
be because Groves bou,1ht a home in La Costa, but 
more likely it's because, as government agents put 
it, "where Groves appears, Meyer Lansky will not be 
far behind". 
Another mob frequenter of the La Costa develop­
ment is Jake Arvey, an organizer of the RPpublic 
