f 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
20. The 29 August mission had confirmed the establish­
ment of a missile defense of Western Cuba. The first mission 
for September (of the two which had been authorized as a 
. routine matter by the Special Group on 19 July; see para 10) 
was flown on schedule on 5 September _and revealed similar 
-defenses in Las Villas Province. In retrospect, it can be 
seen that the two groups of SA-2 sites surrounded the areas 
in.which MRBM and IRBM site construction was planned. - • 
Photography of these areas in the 29 August and 5 September 
missions, however, gave no recognizable evidence that any 
such construction was then. under way (al though re-examination 
showed a few vehicles and some construction material.at 
Guanajay Site 1 on 29 August). In fact, there was probably 
no baliistic'missile equipment in Cuba at the'time (see 
discussion in paras. 36-39). 
21. More detailed readout of the 29 August mission had, 
, by about 6 September, led CIA analysts to suspect the presence 
of another kind of missile site--possibly surface-to-surface-­
at Banes, on the northeastern coast. General Carter so: • 
informed the President and the Secretaries of State and 
Defense on 6 September. No equivalent of such a weapon had 
been identified in the USSR in earlier U-2 photography. 
Lacking such background, further information and study were 
necessary to determine the_characteristics and range of the 
missiles. Programs for both were set in motion. 
22. COMOR, at the request of .'the Secretary of State, 
on 9 September reviewed the vehicles available for reconnais...; 
sance·of Banes. The·next day, General Carter in a memorandum 
to the Secretary of Defense requested "necessary actions, 
(including_ Special Group· approval) to provide for the employ­
ment, when directed by higher authority, of tactical-type 
reconnaissance" against the cruise-missile site at Banes. 
At the Special Group meeting of 14 September, a JCS repre­
sentative briefed on capabilities for low-level coverage of 
certain targets in Cuba; hcwever, the Secretary of Defense 
was recorded as .not wanting the operation considered fur_ther 
until results of further U-2 reconnaissance of these targets 
were available, i.e., General Carter's proposal had been 
overtaken by the decision on U-2 coverage taken on 10 
September (see paras 24-25). Meanwhile, further analysis 
·of the 5 September photography had resulted in a CIA study 
dated 14 September which concluded definitively that the 
Banes site was intended for a short-range coastal defense 
missile. A fully checked-out item appeared in the Central 
Intelligence Bulletin of 18 September. 
-10-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
..... - -·-. -· ••• 
?hJtoo:',j'J'J 
from 
~rt R. Faro Ulracy 
