SECRET 
having received guerrilla training in Cuba, together 
with funds to support their activities. One item 
of $44,000 was publicized in the press. 
. A highly placed Guatemalan Communist who de1ected 
last November has given us a specific account of,:pro­
cedures by which Cuba sent cash to Mexico to buy weap­
ons which were then smuggled into Guatemala. .We also 
have considerable evidence of involved bank transfers 
by which Cuban money eventually reached Latin American 
front groups to pay for political and propaganda ac­
tivity. In some countries where the. Cubans still have 
diplomatic missions, we have obtained photostats show­
ing that Cuban diplomats paid for printing of front­
group propaganda. 
In January 1963 one of the first Brazilians to 
receive guerrilla warfare training in 1961 was picked 
up with a suitcase full of ammunition he was carrying 
to some of those same guerrilla training camps ex­
posed when the Varig plane crashed in Peru. The man 
admitted that a woman attorney in Rio had given him 
the money to buy a large hacienda as a new guerrilla 
camp. We know that this woman is a cut-out in the 
communications between the pro-Commanist Peasant Leagues, 
which have run the camps, and the Cuban embassy. 
The principle that guerrillas must be self-sus-
taining has obviously been applied to finances as well. 
Communist guerrillas have staged numerous bank rob­
beries in Peru, Venezuela, and Argentina .. The most 
spectacular hold-up was that of a bank in a Lima sub­
urb last year which netted almost $100,000. From 
the participants, who have been caught, we know that 
the hold-up was carried out by a combination of guer­
rillas and ordinary criminals, who divided the loot 
fifty-f~fty. Some of the share of the common criminals 
has been recovered, but the Communist half is believed 
to have reached the sizeable guerrilla forces of Hugo 
Blanco in the Cuzco Valley. In February 1963 a bank 
in an outlying Venezuelan town was robbed of $25,000 
by men wearing FALN armbands. 
VI. Cuban Propaganda Broadcasts 
International broadcasts by Cuban radio. stations 
maintain a relatively constant propaganda level at all 
-10-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 16 
