13-00000 
.• • - ,, 
2 J"C111.y 1960 
TO : C/WH/4 
Subject: Khrushchev Visit to Cuba 
• 1. B:!);2,kgrounq. An invitation to visit Cuba has been extended 
to Khrushchev by 'i;he GoverillJlent ·of Cuba. The invitation has been 
accepted, but do de.finite time has been set. There has been so:'.lle 
sp<3culation that Khrushchev would arrive i_!} Havana in time for the 
celebrations of the 26th or July. The press has reported that he 
will· ai·rive in August (a date confirmed by a st,atement of the Soviet 
·Ambassador in Mexico). Other reports say the visit will not take 
place for·several months, probably in December or January. In acy 
event we must plan for the possibility of the July visit. 
It bas besn stated from sever.al sanguine quarters that we 
should "do the ssme thing to Khrushchev. that the Japs did to Eisen­
hower". This is a ccmpli,toly unrealistic dream. 
It is true that-~ 1;uccesaful Khrushchev visit to Cu~ 
would be the final a;:;•,,o:r;e 111 the construction c,f a solid Sovie-t 
base in Cuba, "With disturbing overtones for the possible construction 
for more Soviet ideoligic:al bases in all of Latin Amei·ica., For thAt 
reason we are trying to do -hat ~e can to prevent the visit, or at 
least to show a ma.seiv·e Bl opposition to it. 
2. ~loi tati,0nPJ,an.1. On 21 June Hqs sent a cable to Havana 
asking for views on possibility of a major effort to force .ccncellstion 
of the visit. A resulting series of cables shows that the £tation and 
headqUBrter6 are now in agreement that our best hope lies in 
a. A massive Church manlfestatic,n or rall~, which 
though co.lied for some other purpose, -would be to the pccple 
or Cuba an obvious way to erprefJs their protest. And 
b. fron: outsido Cuba, instigatiug of rumora that 
Khrushchev1~. life will be in danger ~ frcm a well-plann<'.ld 
assassination attempt • 
. ,3. Mr. Helru.s hns told k us that he wants CIA to undertake no 
action that ~ill in~eril Station eseets. This injunction ~~s placed 
on us vhile Ye were exchanging cables -with Havana. The result is thut 
station aesets are actively instigatirg the church to hole the rally. 
A ~..l:.I[ cable from Hec.dquai:·tera has instructed the z;.tation to 
continue this cour~e of action as long as there is "safety in nunbers 11, 
i.e., as long as it is a church action rather that an AMPALM one. 
