14-00000 
L 
.. ' 
,, 
DECLARATION OF BECKc1/·L. RAN 1 
I, Becky L. Rant. declare and say as follows: 
I. I am the Information Review Officer (IRO) for the Directorate of Administration (DA) of the 
Central Intelligence Agency (Agency). I was appointed to this position on 3 February 1997. and have held 
various administrative and professional positions within the Agency since 1965. I am responsible for the 
review of records maintained by offices in the DA. Office of the Deputy Director of Administration 
(ODDA), Center for CIA Security (CCS-formerly the Office of Security ((OS)). Office of Human Resource 
Management (HRM), Office of Medical Services (OMS), Office of Finance and Logistics (OFL). Office of 
Communications (OC), Office of Training and Education (OTE), Office of Facilities and Security Services 
(OFSS). Agency Technology Services (ATS). Center for Security Evaluation (CSE), that may contain JFK 
Assassination records and may be responsive to Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) requests. 
2. To ensure that the ARRB staff understood the DA records systems and search capabilities, the 
DA/IRO and DA Information Management Officer (DA/IMO) briefed the staff on 17 March 1997. The 
briefing focused on the DA records systems that existed in the 1960s and the current records systems. 
Questions that were provided by the staff prior to the briefing were discu"Ssed and an individual from the 
Office of Communications (OC) attended to answer questions related 10 cable processing in the 1960s. In 
addition to OC participation, the Offices of Finance & Logistics (OFL), Human Resource Management 
(HRM). and Security (OS) provided written responses to the list of questions submitted by the staff. It was 
agreed that the additional que~tions raised by the staff during the briefing would be tasked 10 the directorate 
formally by the Agency JFK Focal Point/Historical Review Program (HRP). An outline of the records 
briefing and a copy of the advance questions and the answers provided appear as Attachment 1. 
3. Based on personal knowledge and on infonnation reflected in the records of the DNIRO. I am 
aware of the following searches that were conducted in response ·10 specific AARB requests for DA records: 
CIA 1- Information on Org
1
anization of CIA 
The DA provided from the records of the Regulatory Services Group/ODDA copies of Agency 
regulations and notices pertaining to the organizational structure of the Agency during the time periods 
specified by the ARRB staff. DA/IRO gave approval for the cleared staff members to review the material. 
Subsequently the DNIRO approved release of the following items: 
31 mission statements and organization charts for the ODA (DDS) and Office of Security (full 
release) 
2 organization charts and mission statemenl of the Office of Communications (OC) (sanitized) 
16 Agency mission, function and organization charts (full release with concurrence of the other 
directorates) (Attachment 2) 
CIA-7-Histories 
The DA JFK Focal Point reviewed the index of histories produced by the CIA Hi~tory Program -
for release to the ARRB and approved access with certain restrictions. There is no record in the DA/IRO's 
office that the staff requested access to the DA histories on the list. (Attachment 3) 
f-OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY WHEN REMOVED 
FROM SECRET A"ffACI-IMENT 
- .ii.ERL I 
