i 
'Z. 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( .. '-
-8. 
( 
g. 
LJJ'ION 87 . 
••• 
!>ECU ID i'Y Jlf'!ESTIGATic. 87D 
of the source, data of activity, date received, and name 
of the Agent receiving the information are known; it is 
not necessary to request the office originally obtalning 
the information to documnnt it further 1,y furnishing_ 
information showing the loc3tion of the Driginnl in 
the office files. If all documentation, except the 
latter item, is not in the possession of the office 
prep:i.ring the repor-t, it should be obtafnccL 
V .. If it is found desirable to j~clude in i repqrt the 
identities of individuals who are knol':n cornmnni~rts 
and have been associates of the subject to lend 
weight to evidence of the subject 1 s potential 
. dangerousness, only the source of the information 
sho1ving .the associate to be a commnnist need be 
identified.· 
VI. In a very limited number of instances it ffiay be necessary 
to obtain a thumbnail sketch or characteriza-L j on of an • 
individual or organization from another office or the 
Bureau. When such informatioti is received in your 
office, it should be placed in thumbnail sketch files 
so that it will be-available to and can be readily 
located by Agents having future need for it, thereby 
eliminating repeated requests of another office for the 
same information, • 
Channelizing memoranda - dedtruction of 
Channelizing memoranda in organizational and individual security case 
files may be destroyed fbllowing submission of r~ports in these cases. 
[Copies of informant's statements designated for the 1oo·c1assification 
case files of informants may be destroyed when one year old on an 
annual basis,] 
In destroying these[communications,]be guided by instructions for 
destruction of channelizing memoranda as set out in Ma.nua-1 of Rules 
and Regulations. 
Dissemination of ~ata developed in security investigations 
The pro.per utilization of inform2.tion received by the Bureau is foremost 
among our responsibilities as an in,estig2•,ive agency. It is the Bureau•.s 
duty to keep tlie proper intelligence agenci. es informed concerning_ infor­
mation of interest to them. Further, info!·matio.n which comes to the 
attention of the Bureau in connection t1ith the conduct of investigations 
normally and regularly vri thin the jurisdiction of the Bure al.!,. which 
information is believed to be of interest to anotliei:- ag_ency within the 
executive branch of the Government, should be fo·rwarded to the interested 
agency unless there are good and compelling re_asons not to do so. This is 
in line with the Delimitations Agreement and Presidential directives which 
provide for the dissemination to other agencies of information relating • 
to espionage, s abo·t::1.ge, subversive activities, and related matter. .. s where 
the specific agency has ·a present O! potential interest in the information. 
Set out hereafter is a summarization of existing Bureau .. require1nents re­
garding disse~ination of security information developed on individuals 
duri·ng the course of regular inv:estigations in the security fiel-d. It 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page ti-19 
79 
4-15-63 
