13-00000 
APR 04 '97 10:14AM 
PAGE 43 
56 Md. 't. Rev. l, *37 
.• ii 
in all public matters is highly desirable. n210 Full disclosure is to be 
preferred. over pa-rtial; the full truth is better than something less, and the 
more we know about what government has done, is doing, and plans to do, the more 
secure we will be in our liberties. Yet, the intelligence community charged with 
. making the case for secrecy often does so as a matter of routine rooted in 
tradition. n211 Secrecy in a democracy deserves better; it cannot be an end in 
itself, and it certainly cannot be justified simply to obscure the intelligence 
services that generate much of it in the first place~ Such an approach is 
ultimately self-defeating, both for the intelligence community and for che 
government it serves. • 
-Footnotes- - - - - - - -· - • - - - • • • - -
n2l0. See, e.g., Weiner, supra note 140 (discussing the CIA's slow release of ., 
its files on the most important covert actions of the Cold War). The argument in 
support of openness and accoun~al>ility in government is advanced carefully by 
Nor,nan Dorsen & StephenGillers; None of Your Business: Government Secrecy in 
America (1974) . • ;.,-
n21l, See Wald, supra note 128 (observing that, at the Department of Energy, 
"ideas are 11classifiedat birth,' or.presumed secret until proved otherwise")1 
see also supra notes 124-134 and accompanying text. 
- - -End Footnotes-••• - - - - - -
George Bernard Shaw was correct when he argued: "There are no secrets better 
kept than t~e secrets that everybody guesses." n212 Shaw's words surely describe 
the approach of the intelligence agencies to the Kennedy assassination. In the 
absence· of disclosure, the public, goaded by a news-hungry press and an activist. 
research community, .will be left co speculate in sensational ways about the 
assassination. Such speculation will continue to have predictably corrosive 
consequences. 
- - - - - • - • • • - - - - - - -. - Footnotes - • •. • - .• - - - - - - - - -
n2l2. Christopher Morley & Louella D. Everett, Familiar Quota~ions: A 
Collection of Passages, Phrases and Proverbs, Traced to Their-Sources in Ancient 
and Modern Literature by John Bartlett 720 (12th ed. 1948) (quoting George 
Bernard Shaw) . 
- - - - - - - - -End Footnotes- -
We should all be stunned that, with countless documents still hidden in 
government filing cabinets, researchers, newspaper reporters, [*38) 
columnists, and movie and TV producers have managed to .convey a broadly h;eld 
view that the Warren Commission failed and that the government knows more than 
it is telling. n213 We should stand in awe of their capacity to explain the· 
assassination .in such breathtaking terms when so much still remains under lock 
and key. By breaking confidences with former informants and disclosing 
clandestine CIA and FBI opera~tons, a fuller record will put to the teat the 
most sinister of all conspiracy theories: that the President was murdered by his 
own government. Such a matter cannot be left to chance explanation becaus.e it 
eats away at the foundation of public confidence in government, which neither 
well-intentioned secrecy nor covert operations can restore. 
P.43/44 
