··a .. •• Collect _intelligence on coup-minded officers; 
·<)b·. Create a coup climate by propaganda, disinformation, 
'-?::·~; 
and terrorist activities intended to provoke the left to 
give a pretext for a coup;*(Hqs. 611, October 7, 1970) 
c. Inform those coup-minded officers,that the U.S. Govern­
ment would give them full support in a coup short of direct 
U.S. military intervention. (Hqs. 762, October 14, 1970) 
B. The Chile Task Force 
Because of the highly sensitive nature of the operation, a special 
task force was ere.a te<l in the CIA' s Wes tern Hemisphere Division to manage it. 
The task force was placed under the daily-di.rection of the_Deputy Direc-
tor for Plans, Thomas Karamessines, and a group of the Agency's most 
experienced a·nd skilled operators. were detailed to the task force. 
*A· cable. sent from CIA Headquarters to Santiago on October 19 focused 
on creating an appropriate justification for a coup. The cable stated: 
1. It still appears that Ref A coup has no pretext or justification 
that it can offer to make it acceptable in Chile or Latin America. It 
therefore would seem necessary to create one to ·bolster what will prob­
ably be their claim to a coup to save Chile from communism ... You may 
wish include variety of themes in justification of coup to military for 
their use. These could include but are not limited to: A) Firm intel. 
that Cubans planned to reorganize all intelligence services along 
Soviet/Cuban mold thus creating structure for police state .... B)Economii: 
situation collapsing, .... C)By quick recognition of Cuba and Communist 
countries Allende assumed U.S. would cut off material assistance to 
Armed Forces thus weakening them as constitutional barriers. Would then 
empty·armories to Communist Peoples Militia with task to run campaign of 
terror based on alleged labor and economic sabotage (Use some quotes 
from Allende on this.) 
2. Station has written some excellent prop guidances. Using themes 
at hand and which best known to you we are n·ow asking you to prepare 
intel report based on some well known facts and some fiction to justify 
coup, split opposi_tion, and gain adherents for military group. With .. ,_. ... ... -.-"'I 
appropriate militarY contact can determine how to "discover" ,inte1'• report 
which could even be planted during raids planne,f),y:•c~rabineros. ,.j 
3. We urge you to get this idea and some .concrete suggestions to plot.,; '< ••• ,,r~ "' 
ters as soon as you can. Coup should have a justification to·prosper. 
(Headquarters 882, 19 October 1970) 
Hlf 50955 Docid.:32423525 Page 93 
[-~;:'} 
),,, 
-
!· 
-
