[ 
[ 
87D 
· NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
SECURITY 
• . •' ) 
INV~!STIGATION. 
be submitted to the Bureau and the new office of 
origln wit~ the pertinent data placed thereon including 
his cu~rent residence and business addresses. The 
.not,\ t ;_ ;:n "Jtemove fro:n Unavailable Scctio n" s'11all be 
typed in tht! sp;we to the right of the addres sos. 
New security index cards will then be sqbmitted·to 
the new office of oriiin by the Bureau. 
(D) Exception - re special section 
Security index cards relating to special section 
subjects will continue to be maintained in the 
sp~cia1 section rather than in the unavaiiable • 
sc.ction. When it is determined that a special 
section subject is out of the country, imprisoned, 
or misslr,g, FD-122.,,.shall lie submitted to the Bureau 
with t-he appropria.t·c unavailable category desig­
~ated as set fbrth ~bove. New cards retaining the 
special section designation, as well as indicating 
the unavailable category, will be p~epared. Upon 
receipt of th~s~ amended cards from the Bureau, tw; 
copies will be filed~rt the spec~al section of the 
field office security index and one copy will be 
filed in thft alphabetical section. 
Ve Inact~ve section 
'626 
Each office shall maintain an inactive section in iti 
security index which will contain the security index 
.cards of individuals who were included in the active 
security index at the time they were _i!l,ducted. into 
the armed forcese 
Upon learning of the induction of· a iubject into one 
of the armed forces, a letter is to be submitted to 
the·Bureau advising of the identity of the·pranch of 
service into which the subject was inducted, together 
with the date and place of induction. 
If pertinent information wh:i,ch has not previously been 
set forth in report form exists in the office files, the 
same shall be includ.ed in an investigative report whd.ch 
is to be forwarded as an enclosure to the letter 
adv.ising o:f the subject's entranc.e into the armed forces. 
~he Bureau will then furnish appropri~te intelligence· 
agencies. with pertinen_t • inf_ormation_ concerning that 
subject and request notification in the event of the 
subject's discharge from the servicee 
The geographical security index cards for such subjects 
shall be placed in the inactive section of the field 
sec'llr_ity indexe Destroy the alphabetical c~rds. 
Set up an administrative tickler for each ·subject in 
the.inactive section • .A.t the termination-of each six­
rionth period, appropriate inquiry .is to be made by the· 
field to determine if the subject has been discharged 
:from military service. Such checks should be-made 
looa.lly through pretext inquiries if neces s a-ry. If' 
such inf onmi.tion is not obtainable 11:>cally,. submit 
a letter[requesting a check to th~ field office 
covering the records for1the appropriate service. 
Upon learning +.hat a subject carried in thP. inactive 
section of the security index has returned to civilian 
status, determine whether his activities warrant in­
clusion in the active security ind~x.· If so, FD-122 
56 
,f 
t. 
