13-00000 
,, 
ADH:INIS'PR2\'f'IVE iM'fERMAL '6GE OM:tY 
SUBJECT: Proposal for Dealing with Employees' Names 
c. Identifiable names for employees that retired 
covertly: 
a. We will make a reasonable attempt to locate a 
current address and contact the person. ,If the perso~ 
objects to the release of his or her name for reasons 
• associated with curr~nt life style issues, we will 
6bject to the release of the name. If the p~rson does 
not have objections based upon personal circumstances we 
will review the name for organizational issues~-:..-(See 
par\ C. c. ) ., i 
b. If reasonable efforts fail to locate the 
current address, but it can.be determined that the 
individual is still receiving a pension, insurance or 
other benefit based upon-cove~ l~ge~d, we will need to 
continue to protect the name since source of income or 
benefits can not be altered without prior notification 
to the individual. If we fail to identify a pension or 
other active benefit, we will review the name for 
organizational issues. (See para C. c.) 
c. We will make a reasonable attempt.to review the 
name to look for identifiable harm to. the person's 
safety, family,, ongoing operational activities, national 
security.or foreign relations. Assuming that none of 
the previous concerns are identified, we will review the 
potential damage to the cover mechanism or cover 
provider by the specific occurrence of the name if 
released. 
2. Because families of deceased employees could be the 
beneficiary of pensions or insurance provided under the employees 
cover legend, we must review them the same as we would the 
employee. We also have second and third generation officers 
following in the footsteps of their parents that. could be 
negatively impacted by the .revelation. 
3~ Our effo~ts to locate current addresses will include all 
internal iecord systems maintained by Off!ce oi Personnel 
Security, Retirement ~ranch and Insurance Branch. We will 
include a checklist reflecting completion of the?e searches 
2 
ADt 1I HIS 'PR.''1:'P I \ti!; HlTERN,.ll.L gs:g mu,¥-
•. ';'.I, 
