- 4 -
have been used as partial offsets to operating costs. Aggregate 
profits over the years have been relatively small. Only two proprie­
taries have shown significant profits: the Air America complex in 
fulfilling mostly_ Government contracts in Southeast Asia, and the 
insurance company handling trust funds and insurance (MHMUTUAL). 
The air proprietary overview, infra Section IX., details the dilemmas 
posed by size. Moreover, it sheds light on questions concerning 
whether commercial viability became more of a bronze god,than was 
necessary to maintain adequate cover. 
Operating proprietaries may be large or small in terms of capital­
ization and total assets, depending upon the functions they perform. 
When the commercial purpose of an operating proprietary is incidental 
to its CIA mission -- such as an export-import firm which engages in 
commercial operations only to the extent necessary to provide cover 
for a CIA officer in a foreign country a minimum capitalization, 
usually in the neighborhood of $25,000 or less. is all that is required. 
Examples of an operating proprietary in which commercial operations 
are incidental to the Agency mission are: 
A United States frozen seafood importing company which 
operates in the Far East and provides cover for an Agency 
employee engaged in intelligence activities. The Agency 
provided $25,000 in capital to purchase and activate a 
dormant but long-established privately-owned United States 
seafood distributing company. The former owner and his 
partner, who are cleared and witting, provide training, 
business management, and product distribution in the 
United States for one-half the profits on seafood imports 
financed by the proprietary. The Agency subsequently 
provided $10,000 annually for fiscal years 1972, ·1973, and 
1974 as working capital. The proprietary since 1971 has 
provided excellent cover with a minimum amount of business. 
As of 20 June 1974, the proprietary had assets of $104,222.67 
and a net worth (assets minus liabilities) of .$74,051.15. 
The company's financial accounts are handled by an Agency 
proprietary management firm. 
, m, 50955 Docid:32423532 Page 9 
