l07R-S 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
SECTIO~ 107. 'GURITY INFORM!l.}TTS AND CONFIDEN.L SOURCES. 
Index 
a. Prepare index cards on form FD-348 
informant,[extremist]informa.nt, or 
on type information furnished. 
and f.ile as adjunct to criminal 
security informant ihde-x,. depe?-ding 
b. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with criminal 
informant, racial_ informa_nt, and security informant index where 
logicaJ .. 
Files 
When active investigation is initiated rela•tive to prospective confidential 
source, open 134 file (or 137 for criminal sources) and maintain as 
pending until efforts to develop individual are discontinued. 
Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used in security investigations, 
secure Bureau approval, and ~urnish background data of same type 
required for potential security informants. 
b. Except in espiona.gEl and foreign nationality matters in which, f~equency 
of contact is dependent upon circumstances, contact confidential sources 
on whom pending files are maintained at least once every -J;wo weeks. 
Such contacts may be posted. 
c. Contacts should only be made by Agent or .A.gents specifically designated -
for that pur.pose. 
d. Letter to Bureau requesting authority to use subject as confidential 
source is to set out clearly: 
(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizen­
ship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest record, 
and service record, if any 
(2) Details of expected cooperation of.individual and results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
(3) S-!;a.tement to effect s·o.bject is being considered con:fidential source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confidential· 
nature of his relati,rnship with B1.ireau. In addition, statement 
should be made that you will be alert to be certain subject is 
not a plant, and if he is connected ,vith labor union he will be· 
advised of Bureau policy on labor r.iatterso 
( 4} One copy of leti;er reques·ting authority should consis-t only of 
first page. If request is approved at Bureau, stamped notation 
to this effect will be placed on single-page copy and it will be 
returned to field. 
Security confidential sources •• certification of stability and payments 
a. Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments. See subsection L, item 3b, above. 
b. If source is not being pa.id on Bureau auth9rization or if-he is not 
employee of foreign diplomatic establishment or an international or­
ganization ~nd is being used regularly, .A.gent handling must[certify 
stability and reliability by executing statement on this point 
contained on FD-209 used to record contact. Certification must be· 
made at intervals of no longer than six months.] . 
c. If source is employed by foreign diplomatic establishments (embassy, 
consulate, United Nations Ynssion, etc.) or by international organiza­
tion {United Nations Secretariat, Organizati·on of American States, 
International Monetary Fund, etc.), submit FD-401 to Bureau every 
six months. 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources. 
?• Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau of date when source is discontinued and reasons. 
S. PANEL SOURC23 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Backg'.!:'ound investigation and approval 
a. Check prospective panel source through office indices, canvass 
logical informants, review appropriate credit, arrest~ and.military 
records. 
L_ NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1111 
22 
9-13-71 
C 
( 
( 
