14-00000 
SUBJECT: JFK Declaration of Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr. 
and for files on the crypts cited in this document and 
searched for HMMA 20307 and other cables or dispatches 
cited in this document. As previously explained, the 
crypts in HMMW 12454 have been researched. The dispatch 
was apparently written in haste and in truncated 
language without correct knowledge of the operational 
crypts for the specific operations in Mexico City. The 
crypts in the dispatch are the more generic crypts for 
teltap operations, not for the then-current operations 
in Mexico City, which are in question. 
(U) There has been considerable interest over the 
years in locating any electronic surveillance tapes 
that would have been made during the period that Oswald 
visited Mexico (26 September - 2 October 1963). A 
thorough search has been conducted of the DO's record 
system as well as the index to retired records in arr 
attempt to locate any tapes and/or find documentation 
to resolve their disposition. We have discussed this 
issue with ope~ational experts and their professional 
opinion is that most likely tapes such as these were 
never returned to Headquarters for retention. It was 
normal practice to recycle audio tapes after they had 
been listened to by transcribers and their transcripts 
made. 
(tr) Messages between field stations and 
headquarters used operational jargon and shortened 
sentence structures that can sometimes allow for 
misinterpretations. Thus, possible confusion was 
created when references to what was being sent to 
headqriarters referred to "tapes" but really intend 
"information" from tapes. 
(U) In our search efforts we did locate 
approximately 185 audio surveillance tapes of the Cuban 
and Soviet embassies in Mexico City -that were recorded 
during the immediate time following the assassination 
(22 November 1963 to January 1964). The fact that 
these tapes were retained and returned to Headquarters 
could account for th~ fact that some people recall that 
some tapes existed which were sent to Headquarters. 
21 
~ECRgT 
