-
Mr. BELMONT. That is correct, sir. 
The CHAIRMAN. They find themselves in a mousetrap then. 
Mr. BELMONT. That is correct, sir; that is right. 
Mr. McCLoY. In other words, you would expect your agents to exert some 
selection before they would send these names over to the Secret Service. 
Mr. BELMONT. Our agents use judgment in ·the pursuance of this ~ork, and 
they would continue to use judgment in the selection of people who meet this 
criterion. Otherwise if you carried this to the extreme you would get out 
of hand completely. So that there is judgment applied here and our agents 
are capable of applying the· judgment. . 
Representative FORD. What has been the reaction of the Secret Service to 
this greater flow of information 'that they have received? • 
Mr. BELMONT. They have taken it. There has been no official reaction, to 
my knowledge. 
Representative FORD. Have they objected to. the greater burden? 
Mr. BELMONT. No, sir; I would like to say, I don't know whether you are 
going to cover this, Mr. Stern, that our relations with the Secret Service are 
excellent. We work closely together. 
As a matter of fact, since the assassination, at the request of Mr. Rowley, 
we have furnished agents to assist on occasion in the protection of the Presi­
dent, ·which is primarily a function of Secret Service, but as a cooperative 
gesture we have on a number of occasions made,agents available at the request 
of Mr. Rowley. I think the figure runs •to something like 139 agents--yes, ,139 
agents that 'we have made available. • 
We do have a very close liaison with Secret Service both at the Sfi!at of 
Government· and in our field offices. We have a supervisor here at the seat 
of Government whose duty it is to stay directly in touch with Secret Service, 
to cut redtape and produce results both for 'Secret Service and for the FBI ; to_ 
see that -the problems are handled i,mmediately. He has direct access to Mr. 
Rowley, and we have on a number of occasions at the request of Secret Service, 
sent one of our agents with the Secret Service when the President travels abroad, 
particularly where we have a representative in the countries being visited, 
because our relations. with the law enforce.went officials· in those countries 
have been built up over the years, and we are· thus in a position to assist 
Secret Service in establishing the necessary security measures and the flow of • 
information to serve their purpose. 
• In addition, wqen the President travels abroa~ we alert all of our offices to· 
advise. us. of any information which may pertain to the travel of the President, 
and we set up a supervisor back here to receive that information and cable it 
or get it immediately to our man who ls accompanying the ·Presi«lent when he 
makes this trip. 
This ls done, this agent going with Secret Service is done, at the invitation 
and request of Secret Service. • 
Representative FoRo: 169 agents of the FBI who have ussisted since the 
assassination. Did Secret Service make a specific request for their help in 
these instances? . . 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes; Mr. Rowley advised that he needed help, it was offered' 
to him by Mr. HoQver, and when the President is going to visit a city_ and 
Secret 'Service does not have sufficient personnel in that particular city to 
cover what they consider is necessary, they need specialized help from us, they 
will make the request to us and we will authorize our local agent in charge to 
make those men, the designated number,. available to the Sooret Service 
representative, who then uses their services while the President is there. 
Representative FoRD. i gather that prior to the assassination such requests, 
specific requests, had riot· come from Secret Service to the Bureau. 
Mr. BELMONT. No. There were never any such requests before. 
Mr. STERN. At the level at which the requests have been made so far, have 
they proved to be a difficult burden for the FBI? 
Mr. BELMONT. Mr. Stern, any time that we have a pending caselQad of some­
thing like 115,000 investigative matters, which is what we have, and our agents 
are assigned about 20 to 25 cases apiece across the country, ranging from matters 
of immediate urgency to matters which can be handled in due time, and whenever 
24 
