SECRET 
languages is to be stressed in the institute and 
throughout the school system. A list of subjects 
on which this institute intends to publish shows 
that it is to be used to attack the Alliance for 
Progress; it has already ·attacked the..Alliance pro­
gram in Colombia--a showpiece of the Alliance. We 
have been reliably informed that posters have been 
placed in some Colombian universities referring to 
the problems of the "national liberat'ion and work-
ers' movements in Latin .American countries" as top­
ics.which will be studied by the ·institute. Re-
sults of these studies will be published in the 
near. fllture in a magazi'ne called America.Latina, 
intended espec'ially for .distributron in .Latin•America. 
A pamphlet; apparently to.be distributed by the in­
stitute, and entitled Alianza ara .el Pro reso, will 
in the words of its hel"a. s,• unmas e economic ex-
pansion of the USA" in Latin America. The institute 
als6 expects to enter into close contact with leading 
. Latin American scientists and academicians. during, 
1963. ·,' 
One of the most important Communist assets in 
Latin America is a large number of .Bloc diplomatic 
and Cuban missions. These missions are used to fur­
:ther;Communist subversive activities even :in coun=· 
tries wher~ there are no Bloc diplomatic missions~ 
The USSR, and in some cases some Satellites as well, 
have diplomatic miss:i.ons in Mexico, Brazil,.Argen= 
tina, and Uruguay. The USSR maintains relations • 
with.Bolivia, but has no .resident mission there. Cuba 
maintains embassies in Mexico, Brazil, Bolivia, 
U~uguay, and Chile. :Tpe ·• Chinese Communists have no 
diplomatic ties.in Latin America except with Cuba. 
That fact alone would make .Cuban missions important 
to the Chin~se. Only seven Latin American countries-­
Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, 
Guatemala, Paraguay, and Peru==have no official ties 
whatever ~ith any bloc country~ • 
Uruguay offers a good example of how the Com­
munists misuse diplomatic missions and the impor­
tance the Communists'attach to them .. We have found 
that Communist subversive activities in Uruguay are 
not now aimed at promoting revolutionary activity 
against the government.•· In this case even the Cu­
bans appear to be much more interested in' retaining 
the good, w.ill of the. govel"nment so that they. can c6n­
tinue to use the country as a.' base of operations • . . . ,,; . 
NW .~095.~ Docld.: 32424 709 Page 20 
-14-
SECRET 
