( 
( 4) 
SEC'.t .87. SEGURITY IHVES'I'IGATIONS 
• 
Cont en-!; 
{a) Jfach ca.1-d in section A and section B should contain, ·as 
a rni11irnmn, the following: 
I. Name and aliases 
II. Race 
III. Sex 
87D 
IV. Organizational af'filiation or nationa-li:.tic tendency 
V. Citizenship 
VI. Residence 
VII.. :E:mploymcnt 
VIII. Birth data 
IX. Office file number 
X. The letters ttggtt if dissemination han been m3de to 
Secret Servico in accordance with instruct:i.onr. in 
section 83K, item 2~ volume III, o~ this rna1mal 
(b) In addition, membership and position or associat~on in a 
suby-ersive group er groups, -cogethcr wi·l.;h the :;crnrce and 
date of the information, may be added. 
(5) Remo-va1. and deletion of cards. 
(a.) Destroy cards on indi tlduals who subsequently l>ecome security 
informants or sources or who subsequently become subjects 
of security index cards. 
(b) Advise the Bureau of the destruction only in the case of 
. se.ction A cards. 
·be Security index 
(1) Purpose . 
{a.) Security index cards are :prepared and maintained by the 
Bureau to serve as operational guide for apprehension ~f. 
persons deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous to the. 
internal security of the country in the event of a national 
emergencyo . 
(b} It shall contain the names of all persons who have been 
determined through investigation to be dangerous· or poten­
tially dangerous because of their membership in or affiliation 
with or espousal of doctrines .of basic revolutionary organ­
izations and/or front organizations and who will be 
apprehended upo12 receipt of instructions from the .A-ttorney 
General. 
(c} It shall include subjects of espionage investigations and 
any other type of Bureau investigatiqn provided their 
·activities bring them within the scope of the security index 
··criteria. • 
{~} Action shall be taken against ind:ividu.als inclu-ded in the 
. security index only upon authorization of warr~mts of 
arrest by the .Attorney Genera.lo • However, in preparing and 
maintaining the security index, to all practical effects, 
the Bureau is making the deciiion as to those persons who will· 
be apprehended in the event of an emergency, inasmuch as the 
.A.tt.orney General has advised that he docs not haye funds or 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 £32 
43 
11-13-64 
