13-00000 
ADMINISTRATIVE -INTERNAL USE ONLY 
appeals within 7 days of receiving Notification Letter 
4. CIA has never before presented an appeal to the 
President; FBI presented an appeal last year but the White House 
told the parties to work out their difficulties. 
III. February 8th Appeal 
1. In November and December of 1995, the JFK Board 
notified DCI of the release of documents that would: 
- implicate high-ranking [Mexicazij officials in a 6oint J 
tel-tap', operation against IJ:oreign emEassi~ - (Mexicar.fl liaison 
(Dece er 7) 
- reveal station in Helsink~ (December 27) 
- identify sensitive unilateral source in the @:~i_c_a_r_a_g_u_a_n_~ service (November 28) 
2. On February 8, DCI submitted an appeal to the President 
on these issues. 
a. Admittedly, CIA did have problems getting appeal 
out on time. The JFK staff was very understanding of our time 
problems·and arranged to give us more time. They too have 
recognized that the time periods set out in the Act are too short 
to bring an appeal. 
b. The reason for CIA's delay was simply because the 
decision to appeal a Board determination to the President of the 
US is very difficult one to make, both on a procedural and a 
substantive level. As CIA never did an appeal before, it did not 
have an efficient system worked out. ~ 
c. Today, the procedure is as follows: Once HRG is 
notified of Board decisions, they immediately pass this on to OGC 
and the DO. The appropriate components within DO are asked 
whether the release would cause current damage to the national 
security or intelligence operations or sources. If so, they are 
tasked to provide a written assessment of that damage. 
d. An appeal package is then prepared by OGC and the 
DO. This package must then be approved by GC, DDO, EXDIR, DDCI 
and DCI. 
e. Although CIA's turn around time is improving, it 
can take several weeks to task the appropriate people, have them 
gather the information needed to prepare an appeal and then get 
this up to the DCI. 
3·_ Despite our time problems, the JFK Staff was 
cooperative in the process of bringing this appeal to the 
President: 
ADMINISTRATIVE -INTERNAL USE ONLY 
..... 
