13-00000 
February 1972 
43 . Who Shot President Kennedy? - Or Fact and Fab.le 
in History 
by Gareth Jenkins, Weston, Mass. 
How the physical evidence actually published by 
the Warren Commission relating to the assassina­
tion of President John F. Kennedy shows con­
clusively that more than one man was responsible 
for the shooting - contrary to the Commission's· 
own report. 
March, April, May, June 1972 
28 Dallas: Who, How, Why7 (in four parts) 
by Mikhail Sagatelyan, Moscow, USSR 
..,..-:·. A long report published in Leningrad, USSR, by 
an ace Soviet reporter about the circumstances of 
the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, 
and their significance from a Soviet point of view. 
July 1972 
32 The Shooting of Presidential Candidate George ,C. 
Wallace: A Systems-Analysis Discussion 
by Thomas Stamm, Bronx, N.Y., and Edmund C. 
Berkeley, Editor 
An analysis of the shooting of Governor Wallace 
of Alabama; and a discussion of systematic methods 
for protecting American leaders from violent at­
tacks. 
10 The Shooting of Governor George C. Wallace, Can­
didate for President 
by Edmund C. Berkeley, Editor 
Editorial 
September 1972 
24 The Assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy: 
Proofs of Conspiracy and of Two Persons Firing 
by Richard E. Sprague, Hartsdale, N.Y. 
A review and summary of the evidence showing 
conclusively the fact of conspiracy and the pres­
ence of two guns firing, at the time of the assassi­
nation of Senator Robert F. Kennedy. 
November 1972 
32 The Central Intelligence Agency: A Short History to 
Mid-1963 - Part 1 
by James Hepburn, author of Farewell America 
The unverified, but probably largely true, secret 
history of the Central Intelligence Agency ·of the 
U.S. - as a preliminary to its involvement in the 
assassination of President John F. Kennedy. 
December 1972 
34 The Central Intelligence Agency: A Short History to 
Mid-1963 - Part 2 
38 Le Francais Qui Devait Tuer Kennedy (The French­
man Who Was To Kill Kennedy) 
January 1973 
37 The Frenchman Who Was To Kill Kennedy 
by Philippe Bernert and Camille Gilles, L 'Aurore, 
Paris, France; translated by Ann K. Bradley 
English translation of the French newspaper re­
port on Jose Luis Romero, which was reprinted 
in French in the December issue. 
40 Why I Distrust the Romero Story 
26 
30 
by Robert P. Smith, Director of Research, Commit­
tee to Investigate Assassinations, Washington, D.C. 
The Romero report reprinted from L 'Aurore has 
many earmarks indicating that it is very difficult 
to believe. 
February 1973 
Analysis of the Autopsy on President John F. Ken­
nedy, and the Impossibility of the Warren Commis­
sion's "Lone Assassin" Conclusion 
by Cyril H. Wecht, M.D., Institute of Forensic 
Sciences, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
The coroner of Allegheny County, Pa., reports on 
his examination of the evidence that still remains 
(some of it is missing) locked up in the National 
Archives of the United States, not accessible to 
ordinary investigators. 
U.S. Electronic Espionage: A Memoir - Part 1 
by Ramparts, Berkeley, Calif. 
How the U.S. National Security Agency intercepts, 
decodes, and understands almost all seer-et and top 
secret electronic communications and signals of all 
nations all over the world.-
March 1973 
31 U. S. Electronic Espionage: A Memoir - Part 2 
34 
by Ramparts, Berkeley, Calif. 
How the National Security Agency intercepted and 
decoded enemy messages in order to direct bomb­
ing strikes in Viet Nam, and often failed; and how 
the hideousness of what the American military 
forces were doing in Southeast Asia finally led 
this interviewee to resigning and terminating. 
April, May 1973 
The New Orleans Portion of the Conspiracy to As­
sassinate President John F. Kennedy - Four 
Articles: 
(1) by Edmund C. Berkeley, in the April issue; (2) 
by Jim Garrison, in the April issue; (3) by F. Irving 
Dymond, in the May issue; (4) by Jim Garrison, in 
the May issue 
On November 20, 1972, the Suprep,e Court of the 
United States refused to permit Jim Garrison, Dis­
trict Attorney, New Orleans, to prosecute Clay 
Shaw for perjury. On November 21, Jim Garrison 
issued a statement commenting~n this refusal, 
which is Article 4 of this set; "rticle 1 is an intro­
duction; Articles 2 and 3 are opening statements . . .. -
t C 
