871) 
[ 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
.II. l·lneneyer reportn relat:inv. ·l;o security inil.cx :;_uhjects 
oon~,-.ln data r'..fi'ectinC rnatcrial incluclerl on :;;1:.lJject 1 s. 
exi3t5ng security inde= c~rd, the co~or pa«cs 
accompRnying the report shall include ao the last pa~e 
form lt'D-305, appropri2.tely checked., which form con·i;:.dns 
items pertaining to tho following: ~ 
(A) That subject is inolud~d in the security index 
(B) That data appcarin~ on security index card is 
current or requires change 
(c) That FD-1~!2 has been subrni tted to Bureau where 
security index c.2.rd changes ~\re necessary· 
{D) That a suitable photograph is or is not availlble 
{E) [Deleted] . 
·(F) That subject is employed in a key facility and that 
agencies interested in 'that facility are specified 
Reaoon for classifying report (G) 
.(H) 
(I) 
D2.tes subject was previously :i.nterviewed 2.nd 
reason for not reinterviewing subject 
That subject no longer meets security index 
criteria and a letter has been directed to the 
Bureau rec:o:mme:nding cancellation of t!.1.e security 
index card 
·(J) That subjnct•s Cl3.Se ha_s been re-evaluated and reasc~s 
are set forth as to Y,hy subject's aotivi·ties oonti:c.ue 
to fall within security index criteria • 
(K) T:1at' subject• s security index card is o:i.- is not 
tabbed detco1?1 and that subject's activities do or do 
not warrant d·etcom tabbing 
III. Form FD-305a containing•items pertinent to reserve . 
index. subjects will be similarly utilized in connection 
with the submissicn of reports in reserve index oases. 
{b) Documentation of reports 
I. Deleted 
II. If information necessary for complete documentation 
is not available in s~bjeot•s case file, necessary 
review of other office files should be made. If 
not obtainable, this fact must be indicated in the 
coYer page(s) accompanying report to the Bureau .. 
'III. Extensive investigation should not be concucted to 
f'u.-ther identify and locate outside inc1ividuals who 
have in the past furnished background infor1nation 
or to obtain documentary evidence of background 
information, For example, if previous investigation· 
revealed that subject, aocordin?, to reliable records, 
such as birth records, school records, or records of 
the Immigration and NaturaJ.ization Service, wan born 
at a _certain place on a certain date, such informat~on 
l'lill be sufficient for inolusio3:1 in report. J!'urtht:•.­
verification will not be necessary. 
• ;rv·o During the preparc:-.tion of sum.11ary report-s ii; is often 
found that information being incorporated- into a. re-
737 
port was originally obta.ine~ by another office and all 
of the nec~ssary information .for complete docu.menta.tion 
wlll not be in thi possessiori of the offioa prepa~ing 
the report., In sucJl an·. instance, if the of.fice pre­
paring the report is in possession of Photostats of· 
documents obtained by the oth~r o£fioes a~d the identity 
I 
\ 
, 
l 
