C. 
C 
[ 
( 
SECTION' 107. jCU!lITY ~NFORWI.NTS AUD CONFIDE!-.AL SOURCES 107U 
U. PANE~ SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page~ of this section. 
2. Background investigation and approval 
a. Check prospective panelists through office indices, canvass logical 
inform~nts, review appropriate credit, arrest, and military records. 
b. If no pertinent derogatory information is developed, initial contact 
may be made with a prospective panelist to ascertain ·person's cooper­
ativeness; however, in regard to individuals associated with educational 
institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning investigations 
on campuses. 
c. Submit letter_ to Bureau requesting authority to use individual as a 
panel source and set out following information: · . 
(i"} Results of required background investigation and data as to date 
and place of birth, citizenship status if foreign born, residence 
and employment addresses 
(2) Details of expected area of activity of individual as a panel 
source, together with results of any interviews yonducted with him 
(3) A statement to effect subject is being considered a panel source 
and that he will be advised he is not a Bureau e·mployee and of 
confidential nature of his relationship with Bureau. In addition, 
a statement should be made that you will be alert to be certain 
subject is not a plant, and if he is connected with a labor union 
or educational institution he will be advised of Bureau policy 
on such matters. 
a.· One of required copies of letter requesting authority to use a subject 
as a panel source should consist only of fiTst page of letter. If 
request is approved at Bureau, a stamped notation will be placed on 
single-page copy and it will be returned to £ield indicating that 
authority is granted to consider subject as a panel source. 
3. Ad~inistrative handling . 
a. Handle notes, statements, and exhibits of panelists in same manner as 
other evide·nce. As panelists may subsequently become security 
informants, same procedure should be followed in handling, processing, 
and reporting data and material furnished by panelists as is affo~ded 
that received from security informants. 
b. Payments for legitimate expenses incurred and services rende·red should 
be handled in same manner as payments to security informants. Gifts 
should not be given to panel sources since .such actions might be 
misconstrued. 
c. Open 134 file when active investigation of prospective panelist is 
initiated. After Bureau has approved a paneiist, close file 
administratively if panelist is not contacted regularly. Regular 
contacts with panelists should be noted in their respective files. 
a. Only .Agents.designated in particular case should contact panelists. 
e. Every six months submit letter of justification (FD-401) to Bureau 
requesting continuation of payments to panel source. See section 
[130H,]item 2b, of this manual for form of letter. If source is not 
being paid on Bureau authorization, Agent handling source must prepare 
memorandum to SAC for file containing same certification as to sta­
bility and reliability as required by payment letters. 
f. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem exists or 
if typing would be saved. Use abbreviation "PS" before symbol number; 
e.g., PS NY 000-S. 
g. Designate, where p~acticable, coordinating Agent to maintain roster of 
current panel sources and current list of scheduled organization 
activities, who will notify Agents handling individual panelists of 
scheduled organizational functions to be covered. Coordinating Agent 
receives notice of coming events from Agents handling organization 
cases, security informants, and publications. 
h. Advise Bureau of the date when panel source is discontinued., an(l the 
reasons therefor. 
29 
6-19-70 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1312 
