13-030~0. 
. .. .. n 
•· .J - • 
- 2 -
9~ 
} G_tate will inform the British Minister that we propose to pro-
• ceed --~n this manner_:] 
2. Cuba - ·sfotus._of Soviet Personnel and Materiel 
Mr. McCone reminded the Group that he had asked for a review of 
intelligence reports on the situation inside Cuba over a 90-day 
period, so as to see whether any possible pattern might emerge. He 
said this review is just now being completed, it having involved 
examination of 30,000 to 40,000 separate reports. He expects a draft 
to be available to him by Monday or Tuesday. This will. probably take 
the form of an Agency memoranduip,but DIA will be asked to review it. 
The Chairman said that the Cuban situation will be of great 
importance in connection with Governor Harriman's negotiations; 
accordingly, he asked that an informal reading on the results of 
this revi_ew be made available as soon as possible, before a formal 
paper is fully completed. 
Mr. Smith then. summarized CIA's latest views on the status of 
Soviet personnel and equipment. He said that there is insufficient 
evidence on which to base any change in the current estimate of 
12,000 to 13,000 Soviet troops. He said that it appears the Soviets 
are now engaged in tra_ining Cubans for eventual transfer of Soviet 
equipment to them. No combat equipment has been seen leaving Cuba, 
since last fall. 
Mr. Smith added that the equipment which was seen leaving on 
6 July appears on close examination by photo interpreters to be 
communications and .generator vans, rather than missile guidance 
equipment. 
Mr. McCone said that ttie ~~p!es,iJAmbassador to Cuba has_ ex­
pressed his conviction that some offensive Soviet missiles still 
remain in Cuba. CIA and State will debrief the Ambassador on this 
point today. 
3. Cuba - Agent Operations 
Mr. FitzGerald told the Group about two additional infiltration/ 
exfiltration operations which were carried out in the last days of 
June, after his last report. He then mentioned highlights of proposals 
for the next month. These proposals, as presented in the Coordinator's 
paper of 9 July, were approved. 
--- ....•. ---------------· ------
