23 November 1960 
PHUP\:.i-i:" 11-
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD THE WHITE HOU-SE OFFIC:: 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Specia.l .. G.:t.<Au.p.. :M.c.c.t.i.:o..g.._ 2..3..: N~veroher 1960 
PRESENT: Messrs. Merchant, Gray, Gen. Lansdale, Dulles and 
Bissell 
" 2. Cuba 
Mr. Bissell reported that further consideration following the 
meeting of last Saturday had led to a tentative conclusion that Saipan 
would be the bes_t place to which to move the bulk of the Cuban trainees. 
He emphasized the security advantages of the location, and said that 
it is believed the move can be accomplished with our own transportation 
plus two roundtrips 
0
by C-124s. These we would request the Department 
of Defense to provide. We would probably move some small 
commando-type units - about SO men - to Fort Randolph. Mr. Bissell 
also stressed the fact that additional construction costs would be 
significantly less at Saipan than anywhere else. 
o ;?; • :~-:\ 
The. DCI agreed in general with this preliminary t}-,Jnking. He 
urged, however, that the matter of morale of the trainees be borne 
constantly in mind, and that the move not be accomplished all at o::ice. 
Gen. Lansdale agreed. Mr. Dulles also asked that President Ydigoras 
be informed. 
Mr. Bissell concluded that plans would not be firmed up witil 
receipt of Defense I a report on facilities. available in the U.S. 
Mr. Bissell then spoke of the report of a possible attempt by 
Cuban dissidents to take over the Isle of Pines. He explained that we 
have nothing to do with the plan and would in fact be wiable to give much 
support to it. He said that it is highly questionable whether this attempt 
will ta.ke-pic-:::.-.e.-.1:e.::thr.·.::repor.:tcd time schedule, or indeed at all, but 
emphasized that this illustrates how initiative might be taken by others, 
so that we could be presented with drastic requests for assistance on 
•:cry short notice. Mr. Bissell also mentioned the report of possible 
major sabotage to be carried out in the very near future. In addition, 
he said that we now have six B-26s, plus eleven crews, available for 
combat,· with other aircraft for supply. He _noted that Nicaragua might 
be used for refueling in the event of actual operations, but that the_ 
immediate objective would be to obtain strips on the Isle of Pines. 
Mr. Dulles remarked that this would of course require an ac_tivc revolt . 
. Mr. Dulles also mentioned the proposal by Peter Grace to encourage 
Father Peyton (described as a sort of Cath_olic Billy Graham) to carry 
out activities in Cuba. 
NW 50955 Docld:32423488 Page 50 
-· 
