13-00000 
PAGE 23 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
Despite the best estimate, Mr. Chairman, that this job could be done in three 
years, we cannot finish our work by the end of this fiscal year. We're· 
confident that in the additional year we will be able to get through the 
records, which will largely involve the sequestered collections at the CIA and 
at the FBI - records sequestered by the House Select Committee on 
Assassinations. I'd be happy to answer any questions, Mr. Chairman, that you 
and the members have. 
REP. HASTERT: Thank you. We'll hold all the questions until the end of the 
testimony. 
MR. TUNHEIM: Very well. 
REP. HASTERT: Mr. Tilley? 
STEVEN TILLEY (Chief, Access and Freedom of Information Staff, National Archives 
and Records Administration): Mr. Chairman, I am Steven Tilley, and I'm the chief 
of the Access and Freedom of Information Staff at the National Archives and 
Records Administration. And I wish to thank you for the opportunity to testify 
today on behalf - for the National Archives in support of HR 1553. 
I'm appearing today in my capacity of NARA's chief of the President John F. 
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection. In that role, I am charged with 
implementing NARA's responsibilities under the act, and I serve as NARA's 
liaison to the Assassination Records Review Board. And it's my understanding 
that my written statement will be made part of the record, therefore, I'll be 
brief in my remarks. 
Mr. Chairman, this month marks the 20th anniversary of the closing of the office 
of the Watergate Special Prosecution Force. I oversaw the closing of that 
office and supervised the transfer of those records to the National Archives. 
Most of my career at the National Archives since then has been involved with 
working with sensitive records. And in 1993, I became the chief of the JFK 
Collection, and I've served in that capacity ever since. 
When the review board members were confirmed by the Senate in April of 1994, my 
staff and I began to work with the board, and later with the board staff, to 
provide information on the records in the JFK Collection, the development and 
use of NARA's data base, our contacts and discussions with other agencies • 
involved in searches for assassination records, and the existence of 
assassination records in the custody of private repositories or individuals. 
The review board and NARA have maintained an excellent working relationship 
through the.three years of the board's existence, and I'd like to think that 
this close relationship has in some way contributed to the success of the review 
board. 
NARA enthusiastically supports passage of HR 1553 to extend the review board's 
authorization. 
