' ' . ' 
10. 
11. 
12. 
·~ ,.:-i 
SECTION 107. [IN'IAAL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND Co~avENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AN~REIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE Ass•1 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
Symbol numbers 
Assign a symbol number to all individuals when first considered for 
development as asset. The symbol number is to consist of two-letter 
prefix identifying the office, a numerical sequence number (which 
will never be reassigned to another asset or informant), and suffix 
which describes the type of asset, e.g., NY 1001-0A (or IA). The 
numerical sequence is to be the same as that used for all other 
informants, e~g., potential security informant; security informant, 
criminal informant, etc. The suffix may change if the nature of the 
information provided changes, e.g., from IA to OA. Submit identity 
of asset and symbol number ass.::..gned to FBIHQ :via coded. "Ni tel"; this 
is the only communication ever in which both asset's true name and 
symbol number are to appear together. Assets must not be informed 
of their symbol numbers. 
Captions 
In administrative communications dealing solely with asset, indicate 
in caption the character and the country concerning which the as-set. 
is reporting, e.ge, NY 1001-0A, IS-R (Russia). 
Background inquiries and interviews 
a. Informative asset 
Based on the type of information the IA can provide, the nature 
and extent of contact with him, and the IA's relationship with 
the target: 
(1) Conduct sufficient background investigation to satisfy the 
SAC as to the !A's stability, suitability, reliability, and 
potential. For example, a more detailed background investi­
gation is required for a social or business contact than for 
a doorman or building superintendent. A minimal background 
investigation should include appropriate police and field 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
offices' indices checks. 
Request search of FBIHQ indices. 
Check NCIC. 
Submit FD-165 for search of FBIHQ identification records; 
107W 
make no reference to individual .as IA on FD-165. Also utilize 
FD-165 to place stop .. 
(5) Outside of the restrictions set out in 4. above, interview 
IA prospect on SAC authority. 
b. Operational asset 
When an individual appears to have OA potential conduct the fol­
lowing background investigation commensurate with OA1 s security: 
(1) Obtain pertinent data on OA1 s person~l history (date and 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
place of birth, nationality and citizenship, social security 
number or other identifying numbers, family status, names of 
immediate family, past and present residences, employments, etc.), 
and other data such as physical description, patriotism, health, 
reliability, stability, integrity, reputation, and business 
connections. 
Check appropriate police and field off ices I indices. 
Request search of FBIHQ indices. 
Check NCIC. 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
29 
10-15-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1201 
