NK 157-2011 
4 
by tpe New Jersey State Police for passing a stopped school 
bus. He stated he was going to shoot it out with the New 
Jersey State Trooper but became concerned when I<EITH did not 
appear to go along with the idea. They were going to stay at 
the motellfor approximately two weeks and then return to 
Pennsylvania and get dynamite ;rom some patriots in Pennsylvania. 
If this plap.·was unsuccessful, they h~d planned to go to one 
of the Western States and obtain dynamite under the guise of 
future prospectors. He stated that the chemicals that were 
in the car at the time of his arrest were experimented with 
by he and DRAGER in efforts to make a bomb. These efforts were 
not too successful and thusly they decided dynamite would be 
a better method. 
CARROLL advised the NRA is identical to the White 
Action Movement formed by DRAGER in 1970 in Trenton, N.J. 
He claims to have organized chapters all over the United States 
and Canada and these groups are composed of disgruntled right 
wing patriots who are not satisfied with the passive activities 
of the KKK and t~e Minutemen Organization. He claimed to have 
taken an oath and could not divulge who any of these other 
members are. He claimed this group is storing weapons and 
explosives and no chapter knows where the other chapter's 
weapons are. 
CARRO~L stated the NRA believes in doing anything 
·necessary to support themselves while they are endeavoring to 
overtake the U.S. Government. The NRA believes in bank 
robbery, armored car heists, and cashing stolen checks. 
Ile said presently the NRA has no plans for political kidnappings. 
He stated all their members are instructed to die for the 
cause if necessary. The NRA has devised a code system whereby 
one member can contact another member without the Federal 
authorities knowing this is being done. He stated they have 
several training grounds throughout the East Coast and 
Mid-West areas and their men are being trained in the use of 
all kinds of weapons. 
When specifically asked who other members of the 
NRA were, CARROLL refused to identify any of these members 
and it appeared as if possibly no members did, in fact, 
• .I.. 
exisc.... 
CARROLL advised J1~1ES KEITH, who was arrested with 
him in the stolen motor vehicle, was not a right wing Patriot 
and could not be trusted. ,.. KEITH' s services were requested 
• 59 
NW38296 Docld:32989574 Page 
r 
\ 
t 
i' 
I 
I i 
