13~00000 
-
, ...... -. __ _ 
will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God? 
Mr. HooVER. I do. 
The CHAIRMAN. Mr. Rankin will carry on the examination, Mr. Director. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Chief Justice, do you want to tell him briefly what our 
purpose is? 
The CHAmMAN. Oh, yes; it is our practice to make a brief statement before 
the testimony of each witness, and I will do it now. 
Mr. Hoover will be asked to testify In regard to whethe. Lee H. Oswald 
was ever an agent, directly or Indirectly, or an informer or acting OL behalf 
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in any capacity at any time, and 
whether he knows of any credible evidence of any conspiracy, either domestic 
or·forelgn, involved in the assassination of President Kennedy. 
What he has to say about an article In the National Enquirer, Commission 
Exhibit No. 837, and con~ernlng the faUure to Include the. name and informa­
tion concerning special agent Hosty In the Initial report of the Oswald address 
book and any suggestions and recommendations he may have concerning im­
provements or changes In provisions for the protection of the President of the 
United States. Now, Mr. Rankin, you may proceed. 
Mr. RA"NKIN . .Mr. Hoover, will you sblte for the record -your name and 
position? 
Mr. HOOVER. J. Edgar Hoover, Director of- the Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation of the Department of Justice. ' • 
Mr. RANKIN. Where do you live, M.r. Hoover? 
Mr. HOOVER. I live at 4936 30th Place, Northwest, Washington, D.C. 
Mr. RANKIN. And you have been Director of the Bureau for some 40 years 
according to the newspapers? 
Mr. HooVER. That is correct;. since 1924. 
Mr; RANKIN. You have furnished us a considerable amount of information, 
Mr. Hoover, about whether or not Lee Harvey .Oswald was ever an agent or 
acting for the Bureau in any capacity as informer or otherwise at any time. 
Are those statements cnrrect? 
Mr. HOOVER. They. are correct. I can most emphatically say that at no time 
was he ever an employee of the Bureau In any capacity, either as an agent or as 
a special employee, or as an informant. 
Mr. RANKIN; I call your particular attention to Exhibit 835, and suggest 
that you will find that thai is your letter, together ·with yolll' affidavit about 
this subject matter, and other matters that you furnished to tu. conl.-erning 
this particular subject. • • 
Mr. :S:ooVER. That is correct. 
Mr. RANKIN. Do you wish to add anything? 
Mr. Hoo~. No; there is nothing that I desire to add to what appears in this 
letter and niy affidavit which accompanied It to the Commission. 
Mr. RANKIN. You have provided many things to -us in assisting the Commis­
sion in connection with this Investigation and I assume, at least in a general 
way, you are ·familiar 'With the investigation of the assa~nation of President 
Kennedy, is that correct? 
Mr. HooVER. That is correct. When !:'resident Johnson returned to Washington 
he communicated with me within the first 24 hours, and asked the Bureau to 
pick up the investigation of the assassination because as you are aware, there 
is no Federal jurisdiction for such an investigation. It is not a Federal crime 
to klll qr attack the President or the Vice President or any of the continuity of 
officers who would succeed to the Presidency. 
However, the President has a right to request the Bureau to make special 
investigations, and in this instance he asked that this Investigation be made. I 
immediately assigned a ~lal force headed by the special agent in charge at 
Dallas; Tex., to Initiate the Investigation, and to get all details and facts con­
cerning It, which we obtained, and then prepared a report which we submitted 
to the Attorney General for transmission to the President. 
Mr. RANKIN. From your study of this entire matter of the assassination and 
work in connection with it, do you know of any credible evidence that has ever 
come to your attention that there was a conspiracy either foreign or domestic 
involved In the assassination? 
98 
