f 
107F-q SECTION 107. !URITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDENl.1 SOURCES. 
10. Transfer of informants to other areas 
a. Keep alert to possibility of transferring informants to areas needing 
coverage through change in residence or employment. 
b. Keep in mind overall coverage of organizations. If informant becomes 
prominent and may be able to expand his field of activity beyond your 
field division, encourage him to do so in order to provide wider cov­
erage for Bureau's work. 
11. Action by informant when uncovered 
a .. If informant is uncovered by subversive elements, instruct him to de­
fend himself vigorously and demand proof of his informant activity. 
b. Suspicion in many cases is directed to an informant without facts to 
back: it up and by bluffing informant may confuse iss.ue to point where 
his services may not be lost. 
c. In some cases it may be necessary for informant to acquiesce to 
charge·s of deviation from strict discipline of organization invol-ved, 
~nd thus cast off suspicion. 
12. Requests of informant to help defend others 
a •. If requested by Communist Party, or other interested parties to assist 
in preparation of defense in subversive-type cases or handle assign­
ment where such information is readily available, informant should 
tactfully decline. 
b. Such requests should be reporte·d immediately to contacting Agent and 
made matter of record. 
c. If informant cannot avoid becoming involved, instruct him not to report 
any information pertaining to defense plans or strategy. 
d. Promptly report any-such incident to Bureau. 
e. If an informant is present in conversation between an attorney and 
individual under criminal indictment, he should immediately leave. 
If he is unable to do so and inadvertently learns of defense plans 
or str.ategy, he is not to report the substance of any such 
con-versation to the FBI. Additionally, the informant is not to 
engage ·in or report the substance of a con-versa ti on with a criminal 
defendant dealing with the offense for which ·the defendant is 
under indictment. 
13. Preparation for testifying 
Contacting Agent must- condition informant to fact that so~eday knowledge 
he possesses may be needed as evidence in court. Psychologically prepare 
informant for ~act that he may at future date be called upon to testify to 
information he has furnished on security matters. Proper indoctrination· 
of informant is essential as Bu~eau must provide witnesses whenever 
Departmen-t initiates prosecutio:n,s in s~curi~y cases. 
G. INFORMANTS I INFORY!l!.TION 
1. General instructions re oral and written information 
a. These instructions apply to, security informants, potential security 
informants, panel sources, security confidential sources, and 
security sources of information. 
b. Specific instructions must be given to informants concerning prepara­
tion of statements containing their information. 
c. They should be submitted as quickly as possible after meeting or 
activity. 
d. Written statements should be submitted when possible. In espionage 
and foreign nationality matters written statemen·i;s are usually 
necessary only in those instances involving possible future prosecu­
tion~ {In the majority of cases diplomats or officials vrho are not 
subject to prosecution are involved.) 
e. Carefully scrutinize each, bearing in mind that if informant is called 
upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be 
introduced in court. 
f. All iliformati on furnished: by informant.s must be promptly r,;iviewed, 
recorded, indexed, evaluated, channelized, and all necessary action 
taken. Form FD-306 may be used in lieu of channelizing meworandum if 
desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed for cha"1:neli,z;j_ng 
and staple one copy to each copy of informant's statement being 
channelized. Channelization should be noted on original FD-306 and 
on all copies. [In those instances in which an informant reports that 
an individual attended a meeting but took no active part therein and/or 
8 
1"-14--74 
) 
) 
l ., 
