.. \ 
f107W SECTION 107. [IN'1..L]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CO:t-..iliENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND - EIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSE'-
! I I 
! [ 
f 
I 
I 
[ 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
(4) Any corrections, changes,·erasures, additions, or deletions 
on original must be identified by asset using his pseudonym 
initials beside it. 
(5) Handling FBI SA must not make any changes on the original 
or permit his name to be recorded therein. 
(6) Written information pertaining to operational activities 
should not include administrative matters pertaining to 
asset's personal status. 
(7) Handle recording of written information and contact with 
asset in same manner as detailed under recording of oral 
information. 
19. Channelization of information of intelligence value received from the· 
asset 
Important factor in channelizing information of intelligence value 
received from the asset to substantive case files is the security of 
the asset. 
Limit information in communication sent to substantive file to only 
that necessary for that ~ase; i.e., do not send one comprehensive 
communication to several substantive files if to do so might compromise 
source or other individual. (Be aware thai some of our documents are 
being made available in response to subpoenas, and the court is some­
times not allowing excision of material not pertinent to case in 
question. Consequently, other individuals or operations can be "blown" 
by revealing one such comprehensive memo.} 
a. Extract information of value received from asset and channelize to 
substantive case files either inter- or intra-office by separate 
communications under substantive case captions. 
b. A copy of all channelizing communications must be maintained in an 
asset's subfile. 
20. Passage of documents, written report or oral information, to hostile 
foreign intelligence 
Type of information to be passed depends on circumstances of particular 
operation, interests of involved foreign intelligence service, the 
credible access of the OA and the time element involved. 
Great care should be given to the selection of information to be passed 
to insure the operation accrues to the overall benefit of the U. s. 
a. Authority for passage 
FBIHQ authority required for passage of all classified information 
and unclassified information prepared for limited use by concerned 
Federal and local governments, not intended for public consumption. 
Above FBIHQ authority applies to passage of documents, written 
reports, and oral information. 
SAC authority required for passage of material prepared by commer-
cial concerns, Federal, and local governments for public distribution. 
Examples are: newspaper and magazine articles, pamphlets and 
brochures, photographs, background information on companies and 
organizations. If there is any doubt that material selected to be 
passed is not in the best interest of the U. s., submit material 
to FBIHQ for clearance; e.g., see Example (1) following. 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
32 
io-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1204 
) 
