13-00000 
- 2 -
much encouragement to Costa Rica's support of Artime as possible 
without showing his activities. 
Gcne'ral Carter mentioned the eagerness of William D. Pawley to 
implement an operational plan against Cuba, purportedly designed to 
create a situation which might ultimately require U.S. intervention. 
The consensus of the Special Group was that an independent operation 
• organized by Pawley, would not be desirable. Efforts should be made 
to bring him into CIA's current operational thinking. 
Mr. FitzGerald also reported that the Attorney General had sent 
Mr. Harry Ruiz Williams to the Agency to present a plan which turned 
out to be a series of 4.2 mortar attacks on the Cuban coast mounted 
from Guatemala. It was agreed that such attacks, in addition to being 
impractical logistically, would also tend to give substance to the 
"Somoza plan" and therefore should be discouraged. 
2. :~fi~i{~vi-~ - • Covert Action - Jg 
1 
The CIA paper of 2 August was approved.J 
3.,: {]IA Training Activities 
Mr. Matthew Baird, Director of CI.A's Training Activities, made 
an oral report on CIA's counterinsurgency training and courses. Mr. 
Baird emphasized that ever since the establishme"Q.t of the Office of 
Training in January 1951, CIA has concentrated on the covert aspects 
of training. It has not duplicated in any way courses offered by the 
! . Department of Defense, the Foreign Service Inst-itute or universities. 
During fiscal 1963, CIA sent over 2000 students to 1275 courses at 166 
government and educational institutions. In addition, during the same 
year, CIA trained 4214 students in 432 runnings of 64 different courses, 
all directly or indirectly relating to counterinsurgency. 
Mr. Baird said that strong emphasis has always been placed on 
resistance operations and guerrilla and paramilitary activities. The 
methodof instruction in CIA is based on case studies of current 
operations. CIA trained, during fiscal 1963, 150 junior officers (with 
a drop out of less than four per cent) and gave instruction to 174 
foreign personnel in cou,nterinsurgency, or directly related fields. 
Mr. Bundy raised the question as to how CIA courses were inspected. 
1 
General Carter replied by pointing out that these courses are con­
tinuously inspected by the Inspector General, the President'~ Board of 
Consultants, and the Deputy Director, Plans, who heads up the clandestine 
services.] 
