. . r-~~ ... ~ ;. -., .. -.: .. :~":"-"':.I..-!;:~ --
.-) 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
' 
SEC •• 87. SECURITY INVESTIG.ATIOHS 
• 
87D 
of the source, date of activity; date received, and name 
of the Agent receiving the information are knov,n, it is 
not necessary to request the office originally obtaining 
the information to document it further ~y furnishing 
information showing the location of the original in 
the office files. If all documentation; except the 
latter item, is not in the possession of the office 
preparing the report, it should be obtained. 
V. If it is found desirable to include in a report the 
identities of individuals who are known cor..rnunists 
and have been· associates of the subject to lend 
weight to evidence of the subject 1 s potential 
dangerousness, only the source of the information 
showing the associate to be a communist need be 
• • • identified. . . 
• • • VI: In a ,ery limite·d number of in.stances it n:.ay be necessary 
.. , .. to o~tain a thumbnail sketch or characterizati~n of an 
·.-~--:•--:~-~ ----.,-i'nd:i. ddual or organization from another office or the 
• Bureau. When such information is received in your 
offi·ce., it should be placed in thumbnail sketch· files 
so that it will be available to and can be readily 
located by Agents having future need for it, thereby 
eliminating repeated requests of another office for '.;he 
same information. 
channelizing memoranda - Ae~tructio~ of following 'submission of reports 
in security cases • . 
Channelizing memoranda in organizational and individual security case 
files may be destroyed following submissio~ of reports in those oases. 
In destroying these memoranda, be guided by -the following instructions: 
(1) The Agent, at the time he dictates the report, is to prepare 
• a memorandum listing the channelizing memoranda to be destroyed 
by serial or serial scope and requesting the chief clerk's 
offiQe to destroy. This memorandum should indicate that pertinent 
information contained in the serials to be destroyed was in-
-~orporated in the report. [Use form FD-338 for this purpose.] 
{2} The cover pages accompanying the report will list the file and 
serial number of the original informant reports or master 
channelizing memoranda. 
(_3) In ·the case of multiple volumes the destruction memorandum should 
be prepared by the Agent in sufficient numbers so that one copy will 
appear in each volume of the multiple volume file being stripped. 
( 4) Prior to destruction, the Agent ts recoi:mnendations are to be 
reviewed and approved by the supervisor at the time he reviews 
and approves the report. 
(5) Employee destroying the channelizing memoranda must pla.c·e date 
of destruction .and his ini ti a.ls on the destruction memorandum. 
·Thereafter, this memorandum will b~ filed in the case file as 
a. permanent record of the serials destroyed. • 
( 6) Technical rmd microphone surveillance channelizing memoranda 
may be <lestroyed without the• necessity of identifying in the 
cover pages of the report the exact location in the office 
files of the original inforfuation. The use of an psterisk 
identifies the source and the original information can be readily 
located, 
{7} [Channelizing memoranda of translations of foreign language nens­
j~pers and periodicals may be destroyed provided the original 
translation is maintained in the main file of the publication 
concerned.] 
{8} Do not destroy channelizing memoranda in the following instanoes: 
78a 
5-12-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 842 
