13-00000 
SECHET 
t.YL~ urJL'/ 
27 June 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 27 June 1963 
PRESENT: Mr. McCone, Mr. Johnson, and Mr. Gilpatric. 
1., 
Colonel Steakley was present for Items 1-3. 
Mr. FitzGerald was present for Item 5. 
9~ 
,i'~ritish Suggestion Regarding Reconnaissance Flights 
, ,:, , The Group reviewed the message received from the British 
Foreign Office through the British Embassy, suggesting that during 
the period of the Harriman-Hailsham visit to Moscow reconnaissance 
flights be suspended, as well as the suggested draft reply pre­
sented by Mr. Johnson. The Group approved the language of the 
reply, the gist of which was that while appreciating the UK sug­
gestion, we do not find.it possible to agree to suspend all such 
! , flights. We believe that most of them have virtually no risk, and 
that to cancel all of them would break a routine long familiar to 
the Soviets; we might then find it difficult to resume. However, 
I~ we undertake to screen with _particular care all flights scheduled 
during the period of this visit, so as to reduce selectively to a 
; : 
I, 
I I 
j ·! 
minimum those which might be regarded by the Soviets as sensitive. 
In the course. of the discussion of these messages, the members 
of the Group agreed that probably the British motive in making the 
suggestion is to provide a political gesture that would be apparent 
to the Soviets. From this point of view, the. pattern of DOD 
peripheral flights was examined and the conclusions were that: 
(a) Particularly sensitive. flights are scheduled sporadically. 
\ 
Therefore, no isolated definite pattern in any one area that would 
be noticed by the Soviets if cancelled and that would provide 
political impact on Soviet leaders, can be identified. (b) A world­
wide stand-down during the period of the visit could accomplish this 
purpose, but would be undesirable for the reasons set forth in Mr. 
Johnson's draft •. (c) Peripheral flights in particularly sensitive 
areas (i.e., Baltic Sea, Black Sea and the Sea of Okhotsk) are 
subject to Soviet reaction in the form of identificatioft intercept 
by fighters. However, it is believed that these have become sufficiently 
routine so they are not brought to the attention of high levels o:J 
.-i /See special minutes 
for additional items. 
'I 
I 
