t 
. ' 
'IOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEAD1..~T:,:,;:· uFf\Cc. 
- . i ':. \\1\\ .i. ~-- r:·-., J .J .... 
Sovie.t strategic posture and,· in that connection, the feasibility 
and utility of deploying nuclear delivery systems to Cuba. There­
fore, this 6ontingency must be examined carefully, even though • 
it would run counter to current Soviet policy." 
f. "Soviet planners might see some utility in deploy~ 
ing MRBMs and IRBMs to Cuba in order to supplement the limited 
number of ICBMs now believed to be operational in the USSR and 
to reach targets berond the range of submarine-launched missiles." 
g. "The establishment on Cuban soil of a significant 
strike capability with such weapons would represent a sharp de­
parture from Soviet practice, since such w~apohs have so far 
not been installed even in Satellite territory ... The Soviets 
might ·think tha--t the political effect of defying the US by s ta­
tioning Soviet nuclear striking power in so menacing a position 
would be worth a good deal if they could get away with it. How~ 
ever, they would almost certainly estimate that this could not.-· 
be done without provoking a dangerous US reaction." 
h. . "Al though the Soviets may see some military advan­
.tages in Cuba as a strategic strike base, the risks would be 
great and the political implications would run counter to the 
kind of policy they are actually pursuing in Latin America. 
They do not propose to win the region for communism by military 
conquest. They· count instead on a process of political action .... ,· 
27. In commenting on these statements it must first be rec­
ognized that the judgment·on the degree.of risk which tha USSR 
was willing to accept was gravely in error. It should also be 
recognized that the community was virtually unanimous· in support 
of th_is judgment; deployment of ballistic missiles and nuclear 
weapons outside the USSR was without precedent. Further, while 
the first ballistic missiles had probably arrived in Cuba in 
the period 7-15 September, (see para. 37) the first reports from 
grourid observers who had seen them had not arrived ~n W~shington 
by 19, September; . there w;is no evidence available that MRB:Ms were • 
on the way. What the estimate failed to do, however, was to give 
adequate weight to the pace at which Soviet operations were mov­
ing and to the great probability that the new installations were 
manned by Soviet personnel. The community was still thinking in 
term~ of the rather deliberately-paced Soviet milit~ry aid pro­
grams for the UAR, Iraq, and Indonesia (and indeed for Cuba in 
the 1960-62 period) when there was already good evidence that 
the Cuban program had departed from this pattern. 
: 28. Moreover, the Indonesian program too had broken the 
pattern only a month before, when the USSR showed· itself will­
ing to accept a substantially increased degree of risk for the 
-15-. 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
I 
