[107R-S 
[ 
SECTION 107. [IN~AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CO.DENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
[ 
3. Index 
a. Prepare index cards on form FD-348 and file as adjunct to criminal 
informant, extremist informant, or security informant index. depending 
on type information furnished. 
b. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with criminal 
informant, extremist informant, and security informant index where 
logical. 
4. Files 
When acti-ve investi_gation is initiated relative to prospective confidential 
source, open 134 file (or 137 for criminal sources) and maintain as 
pending until efforts to develop individual are discontinued. 
5. Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used in security investigations, 
secure Bureau approval, and furnish background data of same type 
required for potential security informants. 
b. Contact confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained 
at least once every two weekso Such contacts may·be posted. 
Co Contacts should only be made by Agent or Agents specifically des­
ignated for that purposeo 
d. Letter to Bureau requesting authority to use subject as confidential 
source is to set out clearly: 
(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizen­
ship status, residence, employment, arrest and service record, 
if any 
(2) Details of expected cooperation of individual and results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
(3) Statement to effect subject is being considered confidential source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau empl·oyee and of confidential 
nature of his relationship with Bureau. In addition, statement 
should be made that you will be alert to be certain subject is 
not a plant, and if he is connected with labor union he will be 
advised of Bureau policy on labor matters. 
(4) One copy of letter requesting authority should consist only of 
first page. If request ts approved at Bureau, stamped notation 
to this effect will be placed on single-page copy and it will be 
returned to field. 
6. Security confidential sources - certification of stability and payments 
a. Every six months submit FD-4O1 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments. See subsection L, item 3b, above. 
b. If source is not being paid on Bureau· authorization or· if he is not 
employee of foreign d-iplomatic establishment or an international or­
ganization and is being used regularly, Agent handling must certify 
stability and reliability by executing statement on this point 
contained on FD-209 used to record contact. Certification must be 
made at intervals of no longer than six months. 
c. If source is employed by foreign diplomatic establishments (embassy, 
consulate, United Nations Mission, etc.) or by international organiza­
tion (United Nations Secretariat, Organization of American States, 
International Monetary Fund, etc.), submit FD-4O1 to Bureau every 
six months. 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources. 
8. Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau of date when source is discontinued and reasons. 
S. PANEL SOURCES 
l. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Background investigation and approval 
a. Check prospective panel source through office indices, canvass 
logical informants, review. appropriate arrest and military records • 
22 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1499 
• 
• 
• 
