NW 
. -, 
87F SECURITY tNVESTIGATice 
9. Periodic verification of addresses 
a. Data on ADEX cards should be up to date at all times. ·c.· 
b. Whereabouts of all A0EX subjects should be known at all times. Check 
residence and business addresses of subjects in Category I at least once 
each three months. Residence and business address of ~ategory II 
subjects should be checked at least once each 6 months.and of Category 
III and IV subjects at least once each year. These instructions, how­
ever, do not apply to subjects who are imprisoned (see instructions 
relating to unavailable section of ADEX) or those who.meet criteria 
10. 
11. 
as disaffected u. S. citizens (see Section 105 H). Residence and 
employment of latter must be verified each 90 days. Case of any subject 
who is out of country must be followed at least once every year to 
determine if he has returned. • 
Arrange to be advised on current basis of any indication subject is 
engaged in subversive activities, is exhibiting violent tendenci~s, . 
or plans to change residence or employment. Checks to verify residence 
or business addresses may be made under pretext by telephone once each 
six months for Category I subjects and once every two years for a11· 
others. • . 
c. Use FD-154 when it will facilitate verifying addresses. When FD-154 is 
not used, notation should be made on last FD-154, FD-122, or FD-128 
in subject's file showing addresses and date verified. Each time 
residence and employment verified, reevaluate case to assure subject is 
still within criteria. Make notation in file to this effect. 
d. If residence and/or business address has changed, submit FD-122 to 
Bureau showing only changes to be made. Also submit FD-366 to Bureau 
for dissemination to Secret Service and give copy to Secret Service 
locally. 
e. Handle verifications by reopening and assigning cases and closing 
administratively when accomplished. Where appropriate, handle 
verifiq.tions at time cases are reopened for periodic reports or LHM 
and include results in report or LHM. Otherwise, record verifications 
on FD-154 and place in case file .. 
Changes, additions, and deletions of data on ADEX cards 
a. Submit to Bureau by FD-122 any changes, additions, or deletions 
involving name, aliases, citizenship, organizational affiliation or 
nationalistic tendencies, category designation, date or place of birth, 
key facility geographical reference number, abbreviation of agency 
having security responsibility, residence or business address. 
Exception: Change office of origin by FD-128. 
b. Temporary handwritten notations may be made on existing cards pending 
receiot of corrected cards from Bureau. 
c. Set out only items being changed, added, or deleted. If being· deleted, 
specify "Delete." 
d. • Upoh receipt f ram Bureau of corrected card, take f~llowing action: . 
(1) Check accuracy of data on cards. • 
(2) Transfer separate card with d~scriptive data and photograph from 
back of old geographical section card to corrected card and file in 
geographical section, (or unavailable section, if applicable)~ 
(3) File other card in alphabetical section. 
(4) Destroy old cards. 
Movement of subjects between offices 
a. Subjects of ADEX cards 
(1) Assign immediately requests from other offices to verify 
addresses of subjects and transmit results within thirty days. 
(2) New office furnish old office information concerning key facility 
employment of subject so that.geographical reference number, • 
1938 
38 
4-13-72 
( 
( 
l 
i ! I I 
i 
I 
• l 
l 
! 
' 
-·l 
l 
