( 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
L. 
PART II 
• 
6K - L 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Included in the index may be individuals in Government, busirtess,·_or' 
industry. Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information. ~et up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and to~ns; alpha-
·betioally in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA"faoility, or 
by type of information • 
.Naintain the index where it is available to all Agents. .An index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their home,s when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely re~ained in a looked, steel filq cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in the field office.- The cards shall pertain only to the 
territory covered; under such circumstances there shall be no duplicate 
cards in the ·field office. • Cards are to be deleted when obsolete. 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not remove· 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information index. 
2. Files 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparation of sources 
of information. 
3. Security and racial sources of information 
4. 
SAC 
1 0 
2. 
3. 
Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to securi~y and r~cial 
sources of information. (For security sources of information,lsee 
section 107N, item 3b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions for 
form to be followed;(for racial sources of information, see section 130G, 
it~m 2b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions.) If the security 
or racial source of inforJ11ation is not being _paid on· Bureau authorization 
and is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source of information 
must dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same 
certification as to stability and reliability as required by payment 
letters. 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such actions might be 
misconstrued. 
CONT.ACTS 
SAC contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, can 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assistance to the F3I upon the request of the SAC. 
A complete file review must be made on each contact (file review on 
spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary unless special 
oirournstanoes prevail). • • 
SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Request this approval 
by letter to the Bureau oaptione_d 11 ___ , S.AC Contact." Mark the 
letter for the a_ttention of the Crime Records Di vis ion. 
Use thi following subheadings in the order given: 
a 0 Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Derogatory information 
f. Recommendation of SAC 
Submit an original and two copies, but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication. If the SAC contact is. 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to the field. If the contact is not approved, a letter is to be submitted 
to the field stating why the indiv-idual cannot be used as an SAC contact. 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not pro­
posing individuals who because .of business connections or personal 
7 
3-29-65 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 313 
