. ., . 
NW 3 
1 Page 215 
,. l 
February 17, 1969 
SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE OPERATIONS 
DISCONTINUANCE OF BACKGROUND 
,. 1: ••• ',. :, INVESTIGATIONS ON CLERICAL 
APPLICANTS FOR·THE BUREAU OF 
NARCOTICS AND DANGEROUS DRUGS (BNDD) • • • 
The Bureau has been conducting background 
investigations on applicants and employees of the BNDD 
since that agency came· under the jµrisdiction of the 
Department. These investigations were conducted pursuant 
to Departmental Order #175-59 .dated April l, 1959. 
Our Chicago Division learned that BNDD had been 
conducting preemployment checks to include credit and 
criminal investigation, interviews with former employers, 
supervisors, and references. On January 21, 1969, both 
Assistant Attorney General for Administration Pellerzi 
and Associate Director Giordano, BNDD, agreed with the 
Bureau's position that conducting duplicate investigations 
of clerical applicants for·BNDD was a waste of time and 
money; however, on February 4, 1969, Mr. Giordano reversed 
his position and stated he wanted to run credit and 
criminal checks and contact the last two employers to 
see if they had any further interest in the.clerical applicant .. 
The Bureau would then be asked to complete the investigation. 
Mr. Giordano was told that BNDD should do their own clerical 
applicant investigations entirely or the FBI should do 
them entirely. The Director noted that he wanted no part 
of divided responsibility and this posit~on was confirmed 
in our letter to Mr. Pel·lerzi dated February 6, ·1969,. • 
copy attached. This letter advised that effective 
immediately we would not accept any additional requests for 
investigations of clerical applicants and that, if during 
the coeyse of investigations of these people by BNDD, 
they should find subversive derogatory information, then 
•the case should be referred to the Bureau for a full field 
investigation under the provisions of the Federal Employee 
Security Program. 
~ • Since February 6, 1969, we have not accepted 
'any requests for investigation of clerical people for BNDD. 
Enc. (1) 
:32199554 14 
