( 
( 
( 
. [ 
( 
[ 
( 
[ 
( 
(7) 
(9) 
SEC, • 87. SECURITY JH'!ESTIG.ATI01: •• 8i'D 
in a key r~~ciljty, po.pier. of reports be~,.-ring the due:-1 charq .. ctc:r, 
"Security cf Government }.:mp] oyccr.; Security l1d,tter -· C, 11 should 
be furnished to appropriate intelligence af.:nncie:: of the armed 
seTviccs by the field offices as shown in sections 69, volume III, 
and 87D 7e (2), of this manaal. 
Specific instructions with regard to all phases of our rcsponni­
bilities umler Er.1.cutive Orde.2· 101\50, including y,ol:icy, investi­
gative procedures, and dissem5nation are set out in uection 69, 
volume IIJ, of this manual. 
Indiv:iuuals who own property or r•eside in the immediate vicinity 
of an installation or other premises unde:i· the cogniz:.i.nce of a 
branch of the armed services 
Dissemination should be made locally to the intelligence servt9e 
of the military b!·c:.nch involved. 
Airmen issued certificates by Federal Aviation Agency 
Federal Aviation Agency issues certifi6atefl to ainneh who are 
defined as persons in command or acting au pilot, mechanic, or 
member of the crew in the nav:iga.tion of a:ircr2.ft while 1,1nder . 
way; :individualo directly in cha.r~e of tJrn ii:spf:cUon, ll;ainte­
nance, overhauling, or repair of aircraft, aarcraft en~ines, 
prop·eJ.lers, or appliances; and 2.ny individual serving in the 
capanity of aircraft dispatcher or ~ir-traffio•control tower 
opera-I.or. Subversive data developed concerning persons within 
such definitions shatlld be furnished to the Bureau by Feport or 
- letterhead memorandum suitable for disnemination, together with 
cover. cormnunication recommending that such data be furnished 
to Federal Aviation Agency. Such dissemination will be made 
only at the Bureau. 
Security index - dissemination of information to Secret Service 
Letterhead memoranda are to be disseminated to Secret Service in 
all security index cases. These letterhead memoranda should 
contain background data on the individuals :involved,· residence, 
employment, and a description. They shoul(l contain any infor:­
mation indicative o~ emotional instabil5ty or any factors 
indicative of a propensity for -violence, as well as any infor­
mation indicating that the subject is in possession of firearms. 
The ab0ve should be followed by a succinct statement concerning 
the subject's affiliation with or participation in a subversive 
movement. They are not to contain any reference to the security 
inde:x: program~ 
D.issemination-·o'i· ·these letterhead memoranda =to Secret ·service 
will be· made both at the Bureau· and in the f'ield foil~wi~g 
review at the Bureau. Submi.t in quadruplicate under the 
individual caption. Instructions regarding disseminc1.tion in 
the field will be issued after Bureau review. 
After initial submission of letterhead m·emoranda in security 
irtdex cases, as changes occur in the status of the individuals 
invol-ved with respect to residence and employment, advise Secret 
Serv_ice locally and furn~sh two qopies o·f the letterhead • • 
memorandum to·the.Bureau for didsemination at the SOG. Form 
FD-366 may be use<l for this purpose. ~'he letterhead memorandur.1 
should contain a reference to the _previous communication dissem­
inated to Secret Service. 
[When reporting changes in residence and/or employmeni concerning 
Chinese and Cuban aliens on the security index, in acidition to 
dissemination to Secret Service, also advise the Immigration and 
Naturalization Se_rvicc (INS) lo_cally, and furnish four cop.ies of 
the letterhead memorandum to the E~reau fo~ dissemination at the 
SOG. Bear in mind in filling out ~he reference th~t some 
