r 
107P - Q. SECTION 107. sluaITY INFORMANTS .AND coNFIDENTI SOURCES 
P. SIGNING OF LOY.ALTY OATHS, .AFFIDAVITS, Al-ID STATEMENTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting Agent fully 
advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a 
form. 
3 • .Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4. The Bureau- will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant's activity; however, such situations 
must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
5~ Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to be 
advised.as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed action. 
6. In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
Q. DISCONTINU~D Il-T1"OR.!'1ANTS 
1. When-the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card 
"cancelled." Destroy the symbol card. ~ever destroy the name card. 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symbol number in the symbol 
number index. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued potential 
security informant. or confidential source to whom a symbol number was 
once assig~ed later is r~activated, remove his name card f~om ~he 
symbol number index, mark it reactivated with appropriate date, note 
thereon type of information he will no,,; be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. _ 
3. When a potential security informant or confidentia:j. source is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4. Advise the Bureau when a potential informant or informant is discontinued 
~nd the reason therefor. 
5 .. Advise the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to testify 
in O1)en court ·or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all cases of security of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance _with section 69F~ volume III~ of this manual. 
6. Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the ijureau and the field relating to the Depart­
ment's interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available as a witness are .contained therein. In those casesin which it 
is evi0-ent the Department has indicated a desire to consider the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau.in each such 
substantive case, except :i.n those cases in which it is obvious. the statute 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the B~reau. 
7. A statement shall also be made to the effect that the measures to con­
trol informants, set out in 8 below, have been considered and recommenda­
tioni shall be made when it appears that such are warranted. 
B~- When the services of an informant are discontinued, maintain close con­
tact with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for ad-y:ice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Bu~eau's 
bes·!; interests. When an informant is discontinued, determine whether 
he has plans for kriting a book, magazine or newspaper article, or o~her­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than making -other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
1515 
) 
