i i' 
' I 
I 
0 
07Dl8..:l 
. . . 
clispiayed in the AFATL museum. Sgt MOBLEY was therefore 
instructed by COOK to proceed to transportation and pick lip 
the box of weapons,. at which time the weapons were stored· 
i.n Building. 127.0 and remained there· until seized by OSI on 9 
Suly 1969. 
18-. On 17 July 1969, SUBJECT was interviewed by GOODMAN, supra·,. 
and the writer at OSI Detachment 710, Eglin AFB, Florida. Prior 
to the interview SUBJECT was advised of the nature of the in­
vestigation: of his rights under the provisions of Article 31, 
UCMJ: of his right to remain silent; his right to have a lawyer 
•. present.· during the interview: and that he. could obtain a civilian 
·1a.wyer·of his own choosi-ng, at his own expense, or if he wished,. 
the Air Force would appoint a military lawyer for him free- of 
charg·e .. • SUBJECT .advised that he wished to waive his rights and 
made the following verbal statement: 
• .. In approximcltel.y November 1968, while assigned to 7th Air Force 
Headquarters, RVN, ai:l a munitions expert, he was ordered by his 
ore, Colonel FAGAN,. to assist and st:tpport WER BELL, the Vice­
President of .Sionics, • to the fullest extent possible.. Therefore, 
when.WER BELL asked·SUBJECT to send a box of.12 captured weapons 
to the u.s·., SUBJECT complied by sending the weapons through • 
official channels to Eglin AFB, Florida, as he • (SUBJECT) con­
sidered Sionics,and thereforeWER BELL, an official Air Force 
contractor.· On approximately 13 March 1969, _at SUBJECT's request, 
11 of the .12 weapons sent to Eglin AFB by him were further sent 
to Sionics, after FRED BROWN, President df Sionics, assured 
SUBJECT that the weapons had been licensed and· registered with the 
proper.<;tuthorities. The shipment was sent to Sionics through 
official government transportation channels, .at· government expense. 
SUBJECT also aclinitted placing approximately 7 long distance tele­
phon·e calls since November 1968 from his office at Eglin AFB, 
• Florida .to Sionics or FRED BROWN in Atlanta, Georgia, at govern­
ment expense as he (SUBJECT) stated that Sionics is an Air Force 
contr.actor~ .SUBJECT further stated that he had the twelfth 
weapon ,that was. sent t.o Eglin AFB from SEA in approximately 
.· November 1968 stored in the lock-:-up. room at Range 22, Egliri AFB. 
St.JBJEC.T also advised. that during the. approximate period of 
February to June 1969, two additional boxes of captured enemy 
weapons we:i;:-e sen.t to Eglin AFB, Florida (Attn: Lt Col P.A. MARRIOTT) 
from Bangkok, Thailand, by (to the best of SUBJECT '.s knowledge) • 
WER·BELL. SUBJECT then asked·the appropriate personnel at Eglin 
AFB to store the weapons for safekeeping and SUBJECT stated that if 
the weapons were. n.otsent to Sionics, he assumed the weapons would 
be sent to the. Air Force museum at Eglin AFB. SUBJECT further 
_stated that a~ the -6fficer responsible for the Ai~ Force museum, 
10-· • 
NW 38613 Docld:345.30447 11 
• Reviewed By AFOSI , __ -. 
. For Public Disclosure 
! In Accordance With.. f 
• 1FKARCA, 1992 ~~ 
_11_AUG 95 
,( 'Pc. 
