i ◄ 
! 
:., t . 
,; 
3o 
( 
_( 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .fu~D PUBLIC CONTACTS 
11(8) This statement of policy is not intended to restrict ,the release 
of information concerning a defendant who is a fugitive from justice,. 
11(9) Since the purpose of this statement is to set forth generally 
applicable guidelines, there will, of course, be situations in which 
it will limit the release of information which would not be prejudicial 
under the particular circumstanceso If a representative of the Depart­
ment believes that in the interest of the fair administration of justice 
and the law enforcement process information beyond these guidelines. 
should be released, in a particular case, he shall request the permis­
sion of the Attorney General or the· Deputy Attorney General to do so~ 
"(c) Guidelines to civil actions. Personnel of the Department of 
Justice associated with a civil action shall not during its investiga­
tion or litigation make or participate in making an extrajudicial 
statement, other than a quotation from or reference to public records, 
which a reasonabl~ person would expect to be disseminated by means of 
public communication if there is a reasonable likelihood that such dis­
semination will interfere with a fair trial and which relates to: 
11(1) Evidence regarding the occurrence or transaction involvedo • 
"(2) The character, credibility, or criminal records of a party, wit­
ness, or prospective witness. 
11(3). The performance or results of any examinations or tests or the 
refusal or failure of a party to submit to such. 
"(4) An opinion as to the merits of the claims or defenses of a party, 
except as required by law or administrative ruleo 
11(5) Any other matter reasonably likely to interfere with a fair trial 
of the action .. " 
News Releases 
Fairness, accuracy, and sensitivity to the rights of defendants·, as 
well as to the public's right to know, must prevail in all dealings 
with the news mediao Favoritism should·be shown toward no newsman 
or no news medium .. • 
Information concerning ~he FBI, including information regarding arrests 
and other development's 1n cases investigated by the FBI) is disclosed 
to news media, including newspapers, news magazines, news services:, and 
radio and television networks or stations, (a) as news releases or. 
announcements, initiated by the FBI, and (b) as responses to inquiries 
emanating from newsmen" a 
Each field office should maintain a control file containing all news 
releases issued by the office since the last inspection. 
a. "One-Officen news releases 
The vast majority of news releases made by field offices are issued 
to announce arrests in FBI casese The provisions of Section 50.2 
clearly apply to all of these. If an SAC feels that an exception 
6A 
to those provisions should be made in any individual case, he should 
make his views known to the Assistant Directors of (a) the sub­
stantive division involved and (b) the External Affairs Division. 
Exceptions to the instructions provided in Section 50.2 can be 
approved only by the Attorney General or the Deputy Attorney General, 
not by any official of the FBI. 
lb 
2-27-74 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 232 
