13-00000 
SECRET 
OFFICE: 
JFK Project Officer 
CSI/HRG 
SUBJECT: ARRB meeting 17 November - Results 
REFERENCE: 
1. Reconsideration of the release of LWat,enton,as CIA Records Center: 
The Board accepted the Agency's request for reconsideration; postponed until 2017. 
2. CIA use of~ 1Cover:) 
The Board did not find the Agency's evidence persuasive; released. 
This determination affects 16 documents ( 3 duplicates) that were pending Board action. Future 
documents will be impacted by this decision. Copies of the documents have been sent to DO and OGG 
tor reconsideration/appeal review. 
3. Release date of Nosenko NBR records: 
The Board moved the release date from 2017 to 2010 giving the Agency the right to review and 
appeal at that time. 
4. Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) Financial Records: 
The Board accepted the ARRB staff's recommendation (concurred in by CIA) that only "General 
Statement for Month" records for January 1960 and to January 1995 be processed as Assassination 
Records, and that the approximately 6,000 remaining pages of financial records be declared to have "no 
believed relevance (NBR)" to the JFK assassination. 
5. Ramparts Damage Assessment Document: 
The Board accepted the ARRB staff's recommendation (concurred in by CIA) that the paragraphs 
on the one relevant organization be processed as a assassination record, and that the remainder of the 
CIA Ramparts Memorandum be declared NBR. The memorandum discusses the truth or fallacy of the 
allegations in Ramparts the Agency used non-governmental organizations tor support and funding of 
worldwide anti-Communist operations. Over one hundred organizations are mentioned in the Ramparts 
article. The relevant organization is the International Rescue Committee; the /RC aided Oswald on his 
return to the US. 
6 .. Book Cables Dissemination Lists: 
The Board accepted the Agency's request that book cable dissemination list be protected in full 
even if they contain stations that are releasable. • 
7. Document #. 104-10072-:-10232 : 
The Board rejected the Agency's request to protect the full crypt'(L/Nt.UCK)) The document has 
been sent to the DO for reconsideration/appeal review. 
8. Other Documents: 
SECRET 
