SF 100-33836 
FTD/rew 
CITIZENS CO!'iMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL 
LIBERTIES 
A source advised on June 11, 1961, that a meeting 
of the l\'ational Executive Committee (NEC), Communist Party, 
USA (CFUSA), was held on June 10, 1961, at CP headquarters, 
23 West 26th Street, New York, New York. According to the 
source, the main topic of disqussion at this meeting was 
the CP's plans in regard to combating the June 5, 1961, 
decision of the United States Supreme Court, requiring the 
CP to register with the Attorney General of the United States 
as a communist-action organization pursuant to the provisions 
of the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950 and the 
Court's decision of the same date upholding the April 21, 
1955, conviction of Junius Scales under the Smith Act 
provision covering merr~ership in the CP, This source further 
advised that during this discussion a special CP defense 
committee was formed and it was decided that this committee 
would have an office, which would be managed by Miriam Fried­
lander who, according to the source, is a member of the CPUSA 
Nationcil Cammi ttee. 
A.nether source advised on June 14, 1961, that at a 
meeting of the CPUSA National Board and invited guests held on 
that date at CP headqua.rters, New York City, it was announced 
that the CP defense corr.mi ttee would have an office at 2 2 East 
17th Street, New York, New York, under the name of the 
Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties (CCCL). 
A third source advised on July 20, 1961, that at a 
meeting of the CP defense committee held on that date at CP 
headquarters, New York City, the purpose and scope of the CCCL 
was discussed. It was stated that this comrni t·tee has been set 
up to serve as a national coordinator and service center for .. 
every effort being made by whatever source to repeal the 
McCarran and Smith Acts. In addition, it has bean set up to 
reverse the Supreme Court's decision of June S, 1961, or secure 
an indefinite stay of any enforcement of the law by the Department 
of Justice. 
It is to engage in generating a popular defense mov~­
ment to mobilize legal assistance of any organization or 
individual whose "democratic rights are infringed upon by 
these laws." This committee wants to encourage the creation of 
local organizations or groups to work in support of any one of 
the ab'6ve-stated objectives. The committee will also serve as 
an exchange center of material and provide speakers for any 
J.ocal organization. --~•-• 2 8 6 
APPENDIX PAGE 
~ . . . ' 
~-•~~-• ~..__ .. ~· • '·.l!IIM 
. ~ .... 
NW 38613 Docld:34528578 14 
