14-00000 
fl 
19 
the date of enactment unless, in the case of executive branch 
records, the President demonstrates that public disclosure will 
result in an identifiable harm to the national security, intelligence 
operations, or foreign relations of the United States. 
The Assassination Records Review Board is an independent 
agency within the executive branch. The five-member Review 
Board will be appointed by the President with the advice and con­
sent of the United States Senate. The confirmation hearings will be 
conducted by the Committee on Governmental Affairs. The_Act re- • 
quires that the Review Board include at least one historian and 
one attorney, and that each member "is a national recognized pro­
fessional in his or her. field. The legislation requires that prior to 
making the appointments, the President is required to consider rec­
ommendations from the American Historical Association, the Orga­
nization of American Historians, the Society of American Archi­
vists, and the American Bar Association. • 
To ensure a comprehensive search and disclosure of assassination 
records,· particularly to enable the public to obtain information and 
records beyond the scope of previous official inquiries, the Review 
Board has the authority to direct any government office to produce 
additional information and records which it believes are related to 
the assassination. It has the authority to subpoena private perso~ 
and to enforce the subpoenas through the courts. 
The Review Board is authorized for a two-year period and it may 
be extended by a majority vote of the Review Board for up to an 
additional year. The Review Board- could decide to extend it exist­
ence to less than one year if that is the time determined as neces­
sary to complete its work. Annual fmap.cial reports and other peri­
odic reports are required to be provided to the Congress. The re­
ports must include statements of progress, the level of cooperation 
of government offices and agencies, and the possible need for addi-
. tional time or authority from Congress. 
IV. BACl(GROUND AND NEED FOR LEGISLATION 
~ 
On November 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy was assassi­
nated. It was a tragic and defining moment in American history. 
The desire by the American public to understand who assassinated 
President Kennedy, and why, has resulted in several official inves­
tigations and .a broad spectrum of private inquiries and scholar-
. ship. Unfortunatel_y, in the eyes of the public, each investigation 
and inquiry served to raise additional questions, and did so while 
increasing the volume of secret government records about the as­
sassination. In 1992, the public demand, fostered by increased 
media attention, the opening of secret files by changing gov.ern­
ments around the world, and other factors, culminated in the rec­
ognition by the Congress and the Executive Branch that the 
records related to the assassination of President Kennedy should be fully disclosed. • • 
--In addition to the legislation considered by the Committee, and· 
its counterpart considered by the House Committee on_ Government 
Operations, four other related, though more limited, • measures: 
were introduced in the House of Representatives in 1992. Two bills 
mandating the release of all Kennedy assassination investigation 
.,,.- ·. 
