13-0000p 
SECRET 
SH: I think one of the biggest things was a Governmental 
structure and what and how. it was done, and how it was 
done under Mongoose. Fortunately under Mongoose CIA 
was not the main target of the Government structure. 
We were part of a Government-wide operation, as opposed 
to the Bay of Pigs. The Bay of Pigs as I read t~e 
report was basically a CIA operation supported to some 
extent by the-Defense Department and politically by the 
State Department. In Mongoose it was totally different 
in that directions - all directions - came from the 
White House, basically Bobby Kennedy, through the voice 
of a fellow called General Edward Landsdale. But in 
terms of the management of the thing, one of the best 
things that ever happened in Mongoose was that the 
three senior people who were involved in this, namely 
John A. McCone as DCI, Dean Rusk as Secretary of State, 
and Bob McNamara as Secretary of Defense, refused, flat 
out, to follow the original concept of Mongoose, which 
was that Ed Lansdale would ba set up as Chief of 
Operations reporting to Bobby Kennedy, the Attorney 
General. All the other agencies of Government - the 
three I mentioned plus Commerce, Treasury, USIA, and 
God knows how many other pieces - would all have 
detailed men, money, and material to Lansdale, in 
effect creating a brand new agency. The three senior 
members of the cabinet that I mentioned, except for the 
Director, three senior members said "no, we can't do 
that. Congress appropriates the money to us and we're 
responsible for the money and the manpower and the 
material. We'll put our shoulders to the wheel, we'll 
follow all your orders, but only through command 
channels." That's what ~ade Mongoose different than 
the Bay of Pigs. In the Bay of Pigs the CIA stood out 
like a sore thumb, and in Mongoose CIA was subdued in 
terms of just being part of a whole series of people 
that were involved. In terms of the organizational 
structure, and the management of the thing, I think 
that with Harvey, particularly, in charge, and with 
Helms as his boss as DDP, we avoided one problem 
automatically in there were two senior men who 
organized our part of Mongoose the way we in the Agency 
had always done in terms of headquarters and the field 
station. We regarded Miami, which was headed by Ted 
Shackley, as almost the equivalent of headquarters. It 
was JMWAVE. He had more people under his command t_han 
we had in the branch, or in the task force up in 
Washington. I think he ended up with about 600 
staffers including commo and logistics and God knows 
what else. 
BL: So you did solve that problem? 
2 
SECRET 
