14-00000 
- 3 -
in that city. In addition, AM-BANG-I will attempt to eee a.nd talk 
to Vc:nezuelan Go,·ernment officials including President Betancourt. 
Some time after this trip AMBANG-1 intends to visit 
Central America princip-ally Costa Rica a.nd if he. ca.n procure a 
visa, M~xico. The purpose of all his travel is the raising of funds, 
th~ general tightening of his organizatio~ and discussions necessary 
to coordinate their efforts. 
d. Isolation of Cuba. 
AMBANG-1 made it exceedingly clear that the 
lifeline to his assets inside Cuba had been severely restricted 
when PAA flights were suspended. Nothing could suit AMBANG-1 
more than to have these flights resumed. AMBANG-1 's obviously 
great interest in the resumpi. on of these flights was the most eloquent 
statement yet of his belie{ that he has a network, or that he can 
revive a network within Cuba, At least at this stage of JURE 
operations,. AMBANG-1 does not appear to consider the infiltration 
of manpower as necessary. 
AMBANG-1 stated that the use of flights from Spain and 
Mexico to Cuba wa;5 difficult and costly whereas the ~ami-Havana 
run had been most useful in maintaining contact within Cuba. It 
was AMBANG-1 1 s opinion that the resumption of PAA flights would 
be an operational boom to JURE and that whereas he could see 
Castro making some political capital out of the flights, he believed 
that some appropriate statement such as "there is no political 
significance but only a humanitarian and· compassionate reason for 
the reestablishment of this link, " would be sufficient to 11egate any 
political advantage by Castro. 
e. AMBANG-1 Phasing Ou! of his Employment 
~BANG-1 gave me to believe that he is closing shop 
and giving up his position with the Corporacion de Renovacion Urbana 
y Viviendas where he is ~mployed as an engineer in charge of building 
pre-cast concrete houses. AMBANG-1 stated that during the past 
week Governor Munoz Marin gave final authority for .the erection 
of a plant to produce these houses in Puerto Rica. AMBANG-i. is 
