• 87E 
f. 
g. 
SECURITY INVESTIGATIOJ 
Letter requesting Bureau authority for in·lierview 
(1) In absence of special circumstances, include following state- ·(' . 
ment in first paragraph of letter. 
{a) Bureau authori t;y is requested to interview subject in 
accordance with existing instructions relating to inter­
views of security subjects. If. subject is cooperative, 
no affirmative steps will be taken during initial inter­
view t~ direct his.activities and complete background in­
vestigation required by section 107G of Manu~l of In­
structions will be conducted and Bureau will be requested 
to authorize recontact with subject as PSI. 
(b-) .Form FD-336 contains above ·statement and may be used.·· 
Statement in no way precludes interviewing .fl.gents from 
obta_ining all subversive information subject is willing to 
furnish or other data which will assist in determining , • 
his potential as informant. 
{c) If available, letter must contain following inf orma. t.ion: 
I. Residence address, occupation, employment, race, date 
and place of birth, citizenship, and statu~ of health 
II. Marital status. If married, occupation, employment, 
and race of spouse. 
III. Length of time subject was member of or affiliated with 
subversive organization and positions held. When in­
vestigation is based on circumstances other than mem­
bership or affiliation with subversive organizations, 
briefly set forth facts. 
IV. If married, state if spouse is or has been member of or 
affiliated with subversive groups, positions held, and 
period of such membership or affiliation .. 
.v. Membership or affiliation of any other close relatives 
in subversive groups 
VI. Information regarding defection_.. expulsion, inactivity, and 
present ~ympatliies of subject and, if married, of spou~e 
VII. What is expected to be gained by interview ( 
(d) In each letter, pertinent information, if available, regarding . 
seven items listed must be set out under appropriate number 
but headings need not be restated. If no pertinent data is 
available regarding any item, so indicate after number. 
(2
3
) Letters must be personally approved by SAC. 
( } One copy of letter should only be first page of letter. When 
u!!necessary to issue specific instructions, Bureau will approve 
request by stamping this page and returning by rout~ng slip. 
(4) When authorized, interview must be con~ucted within 45 days. If 
not possible, advise Bureau and indic~te subject will be contacted 
within 45 days. If interview has not been conducted at end of 
seco:n.5. period, request new authority. Include 2:ny new informa­
tion bearing upon advisability of interview. 
Prepara.-;;ion for and conduct of interview • . • 
(1) Preparation must be thorough and interview conducted so that 
Agents will not be compromised, Bureau will not be embarrassed, 
and informants will not be exposed. CPUSA has planned traps 
for Agents attempting· interviews with members by installing 
recording machines in members' homes or endeavoring to have 
interview observed by concealed third party. • 
(2) [Safety, security, sensitivity and good judgment are·considerations 
in evaluating necessity for two Agents to conduct interview 
of any subject in all types of security investigations, i.e., 
revolutionary, subversive or extremisto Special Agents in 
Charge have responsibility and option of deciding when two 
Agents should be present during any interview of this natureo 
Safety of Special Agents should be first priority in any • 
evaluation in this regard. If two Agents conduct interview, 
background of subject and circumstances will determine how 
approach should be handled. Agent experiencecl•in secudty 
investigations who is knowledgeable regarding development of ( 
informants should conduct interrogation .. Actual approach. -... 
need not be made by two Agents; one Agent may 9bserve from 
secure distanceo] 
28 
1"0-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1385 
l 
l 
·i 
I 
I i ! 
i -l ! 
l l I 
• ! 
·l 
i ! 
I 
' 
I 
