SECRET - SENSITIVE 
the United States. (Recall that Oswald had had connections with Russia). 
This was an operation which the CIA did not particularly want to under-
take, Nonetheless the Agency did trace the names which the Bureau and 
Secret Service provided in this regard. The number of these names was 
perhaps 2, ODO including crackpots who· may have as an off hand comment, 
suggested that they intended to defect to, for example, Russia, The CIA 
attempted to turn the program over ti::t the Secret Service for the Bureau, but th 
would not take it, The CIA ultimately stopped the project and cleared.alt the 
files out. This would have been approximately three years ago. Stein noted 
that although the files had been eliminated, it was possible that some of 
the names provided to the Agency had made it into the Central .Agency files, 
and would not have been eliminated therefrom. 
I briefly discussed the NOSENKO Case with Stein. Nosenko had defected 
to the United States and was admitted to this country as a "parolee". That 
is, the Im.migration and Naturalization Bureau have a quota of persons 
which the Agency can bring into the country without regular immigration 
papers. These persons are the responsibility of the Agency, There was 
some initial doubt, as to whether, in fact, Nosenko had been sent to the 
United States by the KGB. Information obtained from another defector 
tended to confirm this suspi:cion. The question then was what to do with 
Nosenko. It was decided for a variety of reasons, that it would be unwise to 
attempt to deport him; as a result,he was kept in the United States in isolation. 
After several years it was determined that Nosenko was, in fact, not an 
attempted double agent. He was thereaffer· • rehabilitated and now lives 
happily in the United States. Although the CI had an interest in this case, 
it was actually run by the Office of Security. 
As one aspect of the Agency's duty to help in services of common concern 
to all Governmental agencies, the CIA recorded in computer form at the 
request of the FAA, all information relating to hijackers, Stein thinks that 
this was probably because the CIA had the only equipment which could 
handle the needed material in the proper fashion. The information so 
provided would, for example, include names of all those who were on board 
hijac_ked planes. Approximately two years ago the CIA tried to give this 
program to the FAA. That Agency, however, would not accept the program, 
and, therefore it was terminated by CIA~.., ' 
Hlf 50955 Docld:32105622 Page B 
SECRET - SENSITIVE 
7 
