( 
' 
( 
( . 
t 
r 
SEC"'"l'.ON 87. 
• 
INVESTIGATION OF SUBVEr~1vn 
ORGANIZATIONS AND IND! -ALS 
87D 
In all instances, advise FBIHQ concerning any possible subversive 
contacts or derogatory information developed concerning military 
personnel, including local dissemination made. Enclose four copies 
of LHM or report setting out pertinent data. 
b. Aliens and naturalized citizens 
Furnish any information which might have bearing on their deportation 
or denaturalization to Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) 
locally. 
c. Individuals employed in. or having access to Key Facilities, or 
employees of private contractors of the Armed Forces 
Under Delimitations Agreements, FBI is ·responsible to disseminate 
pertinent data to the counterintelligence agencies of.the Armed 
Forces. See section 102, volume IV, of this manual for details. 
d. Employees of public utilities (including st~te and municipal 
facilities) 
Disseminate pertinent data locally to Army and any other Federal agency 
whose interest is apparent. 
e. Members of military reserve branches or National Guard 
Disseminate pertinent security data locally to appropriate military 
intelligence service. 
f. Sear.1en and subjects employed in maritime industry, including long­
shoremen and waterfront employees 
Disseminate pertinent security data locally to Coast Guard and when 
circumstances dictate, to other interested intelligence agencies·, 
including NISO. • 
g. Employees of Federal Government 
Any subversive information received concerning an employee of an 
agency of the Executive Branch should be promptly forwarded to FBIHQ 
for dissemination to interested agencies. No dissemination of reports 
in Security of Government Employee cases should be mad~ in field. 
Instructions regarding all phases of FBI responsibilities under EO 
10450 are in section 19, volume II, of this manual. 
h. Individuals who own property or reside in immediate vicinity of. 
installation or other premises under jurisdiction of branch of armed 
services 
Disseminate pertinent data locally to appropriate mil~~ary intelligence 
service~ 
i. Airmen licensed by Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) 
FAA issues certificates to airmen (pilot, mechanic, or member of crew); 
to indiviquals directly in charge of inspection, maintenance, over­
hauling, or repair of aircraft; and to aircraft dispatchers or air­
traffic control tower operationo 
Furnish pertinent data concerning such persons to-FBIHQ by report or 
LHM. In cover communication, recommend dissemination to FAA. 
j. Dissemination to Secret Service 
Under-agreement between FBI and Secret Service concerning protective 
responsibilities dated 11-26-71 (set out in section 102, volume IV, 
of this manual), reports and LHMs are disseminated to Secret Service 
both locally and at FBIHQ in all cases which meet standards set 
forth. This includes virtually all cases on individuals where 
any substantial information exists as to subversive activities or· 
sympathies of subject. When°photographs are available send copies 
.17 
6-6-73 
88321 Docld:32989529 
I 
i i ! 
I 
I ·i 
i I 
I 
i I 
i 
' I 
