In a Memo for Record dated 19 Novemb~r, one case officer summarized 
the actions to be taken at the next meeting with Amlash. Amlash was to 
be told the U.S. was p~epared to give full support to Amlash's coup. • 
He would be shown President Kennedy's speech in Miami of November 18 
and told this 7e~ffir:;ied support for Am~ash's proposal. Headquarters 
had approved givin? Afnlash. ~copes and rifles and other equipment. The 
memo ended by stating that C/SAS* requested written reports on Amlash operation be kept to a minimum." • 
Pari 1564 to DIR of 20 November indicated Amlash had been called 
on th 7 night of November 20 and had agreed to postpone his return to 
Cuba in. order ~o see case officer O "~f it s?mething interesting." The 
CIA officer ~aid h7 could not assure 1.t was interesting but-that it was 
to be a meet1.ng wh1.ch Amlash had requested. (Obviously CIA wanted to 
give Amlash the "technical support" he felt he had not been promised in the 29 October meeting.) • 
Case officer O flew from the U.S. so as to arrive in Paris on the morn­
ing of November 22 for this meeting. 
Pari 1607 to DIR received at Langley at 6 :25 a.m. on 23 November 
is the only message in Amlash's file reflecting the fact the' meeting 
had taken place. It indicated that Amlash was anxious to return to 
Cuba and that case officer O was to arrive in Washington at 1810 that 
day. 
The file contains no outgoing cable to Paris on November 23 or 
any other time telling Paris to break contact with Amlash. *•1'( 
On 25 November, a contact report was prepared. There is reason 
to question the authenticity of this document which is three pages 
and reports the 22 November meeting with Amlash. The first two pages 
have dark type as though prepared on a typewriter with a new ribbon. 
The type on the third oage is much lighter as though prepared on a 
·typewriter with ari. old ribbon. _ 11:i:made no mention of the _p_c1._ss~ng 
of a poison pen to Amlash. 
- ••• ·-- - •. " r. .• - ' 
On November 2 7, Pari 1669 to DIR reports information obtained 
in October possibly by clandestinely listening devices. A source com­
plained bitterly about official (Cuban) visitors to Paris and how they 
denigrate the revolution .. The source said she wished she had a con­
cealed tape recorder to record these conversations. She named Amlash 
as one of these visitors. 
* Desmond Fitzgerald 
** In its 1967 report, the IG stated such a message had been sent 
but could not be found. 
··--­·--- --- ------· 
