13-ooooo r· • ., . - . 
T 
,• ·SECRET 
30 October 1962 
URGENT 
MEMORANDUM FOR: General Marshall S. Carter 
At the Executive Committee meeting this morning, the President 
directed as follows: 
1. CIA do everything possible to insure no refugee or 
emigre provocative actions against Cuba are undertaken with or 
without our knowledge during the next several days. The Miami 
station and the MONGOOSE Task Force should be alerted to exercize 
every precaution to see that no unauthorized attempts are made. 
This should be done without discussion or disclosure to the refugee groups. 
2. CI4 _should attempt to estop Alpha 66 actions during the 
next several days. ·The President was informed by DCI we have no 
contact with or control over Alpha 66. DCI was instructed to attempt 
through every re:source available to influence Alpha 66 to stand down 
operations during the next several days. 
3. The activities of Operation MONGOOSE are to be stopped 
during the next several days and therefore all prior approvals for 
sabotage, infiltrations, guerrilla activities, caching of arms are to be 
temporarily suspended. The direction of Operation MONGOOSE will be 
reconsidered after current negotiations are completed. 
NOTE: After the meeting McCone, Bundy and the AG 
dis-cussed the approved plan of sabotaging Cuban ships 
or shipping (Item Z-B of Lansdale 1s memorandum. of 10/26) 
and it was the opinion of Bundy, DCI and the AG that these 
operations should be suspended for the next several days. 
NOTE: • General Lansdale was informed by DCI by grey 
phone of 1, 2 and 3 above - 10/30 at 11:00 A.M. 
4. The· President requested.that all the principals who are 
attending Executive· Committee meetings and those in the Departments 
who were in: intimate contact with the Committee 1s procedures and 
. decisions not contact anyone of the Press for the next several days. 
Press contacts are to be made by Salinger and Sylve·ster and a 
representative of State. AJJ.y necessary Press cont~cts by CIA, and 
these must be kept at a very minimum., perhaps should be made by Col. Grogan. 
(This was not mentioned in the .Executive Committee meeting.) 
