Memo to Mr. Belmont Re: Central Intelligence Agency 
Information Receiued from James 
Angleton 
•Intelligence atuisicm. Angleton handles special cases of a various 
nature and he is usually given considerable freedom and leeway in 
directing the operations of h unit. In general, h;e is responsible 
only to the Director of CIA. has numerous foreign sources and 
channels for developing infor ion. The primary source is the{jsraeli 
ntelltgen.ce_ Service n addition to this, he is in contact with 
y LovestoneJwho p . odically makes auailable to Angleton copies 
reports which ~ouestonfl has receiVed ,fromlAmert.¢'an Federatton o 
Labor1 representa i ves throughout the 100 rld-.' '-,:-hese repre_sentati ves(§J 
are 'lr'ssociated with the Free .Trade Union Committee, which is sub­
sidi2ed by the CIA. Angleton al so has independent sources in the 
intelligence services of France, Italy, Greece, and Great -Britain. 
On occasion he utili2es sources in the Vatican. Some o/ the men 
under his control· are on various foreign assignments in Europe and 
are responsible only_ to him. Most of. them are trave.iing under. 
commercial couer. 
During the past several months Angleton has been very 
cooperative with the Bureau. He has volunteered voluminous infor­
mation of interest to the Bureau and he has followed Bureau leads 
in an effective manner. Much of the irif'ormation which Angleton 
has furnished appears in the raw form, that is, it c.onsists of the 
actual reports received from Angleton's sources. This has been of 
advantage because the Bureau has been in a position to better evaluate 
the information instead of waiting for the delay and processing through 
normal channels in the CIA. In addition to information· regarding 
security matters furnished by Angleton, he has also been of valuable 
assistance by keeping the Liaison Agent apprised of administratiue 
changes and reorgani:mtion withtn the CIA. Angleton is thoroughly 
informed regarding the foreign intelligence activities of his agency 
and he frequently clarifies matters which the CIA sometimes camouflages 
with some of its cloak a-nd dagger techniques. L0 
For your information, Angleton·was inst ucted by General. 
Walter Bedell Smith, while he was still Director of the OIA,{[o 
cooperate fully with the Liaison Agent and was told that he, 
Angle.ton, could disseminate any information he saw fitJ This pol icy 
has continued under Allen Dulles. , 
. \ 
Since the volume of information received from Angleton 
has increased the Liaison Agent has endeavored to encourage Angl"eton 
to establish some uniform.tty in the diaaemina.tion of i,nform.ati,on. to 
... 2 ... 
RET 
NW 50953 Docid:32313170 Page 3 
