14-00000 
.., 
Following are CIA's conunents on specific sections of the 
Assassination Records Review Board's interpretive 
regulations, as published in the Federal Register, February 
8, 1995. 
1. Section 1400.1 Interpretation of Assassination Record 
In paragraph (a) the reference to "activities and events 
that may have led to the assassination--" seems overly 
broad, and appears to go beyond the limit~ established in 
the Assassination Records Collection Act. We believe that 
it would be helpful to include an articuable standard in 1 
this section. The present text would permit inconsistent 
application of the regulations, which might encourage 
massive and expensive, additional records searches that are 
of doubtful value. • 
The following change is suggested in paragraph (a): 
,. 
"activities and events that may_Feasonably be 
.s,onsidered tQ have led to the assassination--" (This would' 
be consistent with the Act.) 
2. Section 1400. 2 Interpretation of additional records and 
information 
-Paragraph (a) raises a question as to the purpose and 
definition of ~additional records and information." The \ 
meaning of the phrase "all documents used--during 
declassification review of assassination records as well as 
all other documents--"seems unclear. Is it the intention· to 
include any document, book, index, record system, etc. 
regardless of relevance to the assassination or 
investigations, including for example, legal opinions? We 
assume that the purpose is to enable the Board to request 
and review additional records. 
We suggest that the section be made more specific, 
including a clearer statement of the intent. For ex~ple, 
with respect to cryptonyms, codewords, guides, etc. a mor~ 
precise link to events related to the assassination or to a 
tirneframe could be helpful. 
3. Section 1400.5 Requirement that assassination records 
be released in their entirety 
The introductory paragraph specifies that "no portions 
of any assa_ssination record shall be withheld- -solely on 
grounds of non- relevance . " This appears to open the door 
for access to entire documents that contain information on 
sensitive activities even when the documents contain 
