" I 
SECRET 
SAMUEL ADASON JAFFE 
' 
After Jaffe dropped the Soviet male at his. 
home, he proceeded to drive toward Galina's home. At 
Galina's instruction, he made a turn in 1 an area of Moscow 
which was unfamiliar to him. After maki·ng thi·s turn he . 
hit a deep hole and blew out several tires on the Chevrolet 
automobile which he was driving. Jaffe said that he sent 
Galina to obtain police assistance and, after she left, he . 
. : noticed four male individuals driving by in an old Pobeda 
automobile., Shortly thereafter several truck drivers came 
by and assisted Jaffe., Fortunately, he had several spare 
tires in his automobEe. • At about 3:15 a.m,, the police came 
by but showed no interest in Jaffe and apparently made no 
, report of h:i.s situation. Jaffe • then returned to his apart­
ment .. 
Some time after Jaffe returned to his apartment, 
he received a telephone call from Galina. Galina told Jaffe n 
that she had to see him immediately. She said that she-was \. 
near the' American Embassy in Moscow and Jaffe arranged to. 
meet her in the vicinity of the Ukraine Hotel in Moscow;_: 
When Jaffe met Galina he found that she had 
\~_py.rent'.I.y: been physically abused as she bore scars and 
marks on her arms and face. Galina told Jaffe that after 
she left him she went to telephone for assistance. As she L 
was leaving the telephone from which she made the call to.the 
'•police, she was accosted by two men.. She immediately resisted 
efforts of these men to detain her and as she ran from them 
she was accosted by another man who knocked her to the ground. 
She told Jaffe that she was then taken to a police station 
where she was questioned at length about her association with 
Jaffeo The individuals questioning her wanted to know how long 
she had been seeing Jaffe, where she had been with Jaffe· and 
they were particularly intere~ted in her travels with Jaffe 
during the last several days. They-wanted to know if Jaffe 
was in love with her. • 
Galin?, told Jaffe }hat they wanted he·r to sig 7 () 
a statement to the effect tha.Vshe would not see Jaffe agaJ.n,. \._ 
These individuals also wanted to know what, if anything, Jaffe 
had given her by way of gifts. 
Galina told Jaffe that at approximately .6:00 a.m. 
another individual came in and questioned her about,· the same 1 ;\­
matters but did so in a very pvlite and refined manner. This (. 
was- in contrast to the mann~r in which she had been questioned 
immediately subsequent to her arrival at the police station. 
Galina told Jaffe that she was quite upset and a doctor was also 
called to adm-inister a sedative to her .. 
Docld:32989704 Pa e 276 SE RET 
