13-00000 
t 
SECRET 
SUBJECT: Discussio~s with the center for the Study of 
Intelligence on the Release of Material Relating 
to Yuriy Nosenko 
Extensive persona·1 details on US citizens the KGB 
assessed and pitched (approximately 100 cases) 
and on-Americans Moscow Station used as assets. 
One us citizen the KGB developed is now a 
senior professor of history in California. 
3. Nosenko's Sensitivities: I discussed with 
Ms. Neiman Nosenko's concern about the impact of the release 
of information on his personal life. I informed hej!--o_f 
Nosenko's recent letter to the DCI complaining about.th~ 
release of material related to his association with CIA-, and 
of his concern that future releases would endanger his· 
privacy and security. The bona fides studies dwell in great 
detail on Nosenko's personal life,·including_his problems 
-with venereal disease and his relationships with women. 
Since the bona fides were based on detailed analyses of 
Nosenko's life, their release would reveal modus operandi of 
sensitive clandestine operations and further embarrass a man 
who has served as a CIA employee for more than three 
decades. 
.... 
4. Following my discussions with Ms. Neiman, I met 
with John Pereira, ·Acting Director of CSI, and Barry 
Harrelson, a member of his staff. I recommended that CIA 
move to release the material dealing with Oswald, but-­
citing the operational costs, embarrassment to prominent 
American citizens, and threat to Nosenko's privacy--strongly 
suggested that the other material be held back. Mr. Pereira· 
agreed to take these points into consideration, noting that 
the law did allow CIA to withhold certain information to 
protect national security or for reasons of privacy. He 
told me in closing that later this year the Agency would 
have to justify to the congressionally-mandated review board 
the reasons for withholding. I promised that I would raise 
.the issue with the Chief of the counterintelligence Center 
and said I believed we could provide the justification. 
i 
i 1 t 2 
SECRET 
l t ·t 
J 
l 
,, 
' 1 
