13-00000 
wide'toux. working with Professor Vercoe on the 
project are Richard J. Steiger, a graduate student, 
and Stephen Haflich, a recent M.I.T. graduate. 
COMPOSING BY COMPUTER AT ISU 
Information Service 
Iowa State University of Science and Technology 
Ames, Iowa 50010 
Music composers at Iowa State University may turn 
from their piano keyboards and hand-writt~n scor!s 
to a more efficient instrument for composing music 
- a computer. ISU faculty members are building a 
computerized electronic mus~c s~udio - a_system 
that will technologically simplify composing elec­
tronic music. The studio is being designed and 
built by an interdisciplina,rr group from lo~a 
State's music, computer science, and electrical en-
,...eering departments, under the direction of ~tefan 
st-lverston, assistant professor of computer science, 
Terry Smay, professor of electrical engineering, and 
Gary White, associate professor of music. 
Electronic music is produced by purely electronic 
means and the Iowa State,-Computerized Music System 
(ISMUS) will be doing just that - generating music 
with computer equipment. A composer will sit at the 
computer and write a musical composition using an 
electronic keyboard. 
The new system, which was expected to be operable 
this fall, should be an easier method of modifying 
and editing a musical piece. The normal hand opera­
tions of changing notations on a printed score or 
splicing tapes of recorded music are "more time:­
consuming and inaccurate" processes for correcting 
a composition, according to Gary White. 
The computer composing process begins when the 
composer inserts introductory instructions into a 
teletype machine. On an electronic keyboard he then 
begins to compose his piece. The computer records 
all musical instructions which are transformed 
through a digital-to-analog sound converter and 
loudspeaker into sound. This immediate feedback 
system enables the composer to hear what he is com­
posing simultaneously. The computer also allows- the 
composer to automatically play back and edit what he 
has written simply by striking another key. 
The musician has now completed one "layer" of 
music. If he wants to add further musical instruc­
tions to the composition, he repeats the entire pro­
cess again. All layers merge together to obtain the 
product - a completed electronic composition. 
The music instructions which the composer inserts 
into the system are a special electronic music nota­
tion - a "computer language." The English words it 
uses can be compared to musical notation found on a 
conventional score - treble and bass clefs, notes, 
rests, and the like. 
Electronic music has been used in commerci-al re­
cordings, and as background music for television, 
radio and film. The l'owa State system will be so­
phisticated enough for use in serious compositional 
study, the production of background music for vari­
ous media, and for the demonstration of sound prop­
erties. 
The ISMUS presently being built is a protytype of 
a full-scale model. If the "test-system" proves 
satisfactory, "we will look for funding to build a 
full-scale model," says White. The project is pres­
ently supported by a $1,170 grant from Western Elec-
tric and a National Science Foundation institutional 
grant of $8,698. The prototype employs a mini-com­
puter that is owned by Iowa State. 
The studio wi 11 be used as a .teaching tool for 
the ISU music program. Computer software, the pro­
grams (sequences of operations to be pe~formed by 
the computer) written for the system, will be devel­
oped so a composer can use the studio equipment 
without having prior knowledge of computer program­
ming. Students will be able to learn b~sic a~ousti­
cal concepts and principles of electronic music syn­
thesis and to develop sensitivity to timbre with the 
ISMUS. Also contributing to introductory computer 
science courses, the system will be a povel example 
of computer application in a non-scientific field. 
STUDENT PROGRAMS COMPUTER 
FOR REMEDIAL INSTRUCTION 
Edward J. Canty 
Digital Equipment Corp. 
Maynard, Mass. 01754 
Using programs developed by a local high school 
student, School District 91 in Idaho Fall!, has put 
its newly-acquired computer t9 work as a super_ 
tutor" in remedial studies for disadvantaged child­
ren in this southeastern Idaho community. Designed 
·to improve the arithmetic and language art~ skills 
of children in grades 2 through 6, the proJect was 
introduced by director of curriculum Or. \liallace 
Manning with federal Title· 1 aid during the dis­
trict's 1973 summer session for children largely 
from rural farm families. According to John A. 
Christensen, computer sciences coordinator, the 
project proved so successful in its initial appli­
cation that it has been continued in the fall se­
mester, 
The student programmer is Robert Huntsman, 18. a 
June graduate of Idaho Falls' Skyline High School. 
Using the district's PDP-11/20 timesharing computer 
system installed last December by Digital Equipment 
Corporation, Huntsman developed programs for arith­
metic and language drill to serve between 40 and 50 
pupils on each of two teletypewriter terminals situ­
ated in local elementary schools. 
In a typical arithmetic routine, the computer 
types a problem and waits for the pupil's response 
- ten seconds if the problem is a memory exercise,. 
longer if it involves several columns for addition 
or several digits for multiplication. If the stu­
dent's answer is correct, Huntsman's program directs 
the terminal to ring a bell in congratulation; if 
incorrect, the computer supplies a hint on where the 
mistake occurred and encourages him to try again. 
Answers to English and social studies workbook 
questions have been entered in the computer memory, 
allowing students to do their homework at a terminal 
and receive immediate response. The computer keeps 
score of right and wrong answers to produce reports 
for teacher guidance. Spelling-recognition exer­
cises are also in use and Huntsman has undertaken 
development of an arithmetic program involving frac­
tions 
"One of the computer's major advantages is its 
ability to pay attention to individuat children," 
Christensen said. •:Every chi Id enrolled in the 
regular summer session was able to get experience 
at a terminal and benefit from these interactive 
programs." He said high scho~l laboratory assist­
ants will continue to write instructional programs 
for elementary and junior high levels, expanding the 
library begun by Huntsman. For future summer ses-
