( 
't 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
( 
c. 
d. 
e. 
f. 
g. 
h. 
i. 
SECUON 10. SESU?.ITY Ill>'OP.11Al1Tal Al!ll 107N 
(2) Residence and employment (If no change since last justifioatiun 
letter, mcrt'.:ly :;tate '1no c:h2.1i.gc. 11 ) 
(3) Current rn,;;m·oec:ihip[:ma. po:;ii;ion hcld]in subverai-ve or&Rnizations 
·[(When justification is submitted for racial informants, sub­
stitute the word "racial" for the word "subver~ivc.")) 
(4) Sum..-n?,ry of information furnisJ:ted and/or services rendered durtng 
pertinent period 
(5) Amount paid for services and expenses by month 
(Initial ju3tific~tion letter should set forth amount, if any, 
ever Phid uneer SAC authority.) 
Type and nu~ber of meetings attended and other activity 
Number of written anil. orz,2. statements submitted. 
(List. separate~y.} 
Information furnished of unusual value 
Approximate nmi-:ber of persons on whom informant. furnished coverage 
and thei:::- i!r.portance 
Steps being taken to advance informant 
Stability and reliability 
( Set forth personal wea.knesses', domes.tic d.ifficuJ. ties, indications 
of untrust't:c?·thin~ss or ur.relia.bility, or other similar problems 
presented by informant. and steps being taken to prevent any sue~ 
situations from later becomir..g source of embarrassment to the 
Bureau.) . • 
(12) Indcctrination against di solo su:re - • 
(Sta·~e whether every opportunity has been taken to properly 
indoctrinate inform~nt against making any disclosure of his 
(13) 
(14) 
~elationship with Bureau throuih any media.) . 
.fi_ll necessary action tr•.ken O:;'! information furnished 
Miscellaneous . . 
(Any other m.?.ttcrs concerning informc>.nt' s ope;ation which should 
be brought to Iluroau's attention) 
{Where applicable, substitute potential info·rmant, confident·i3.l 
source, panel sou~·cc, or source of information for the word "informant. 11 ) 
When payment to an informant has been authorized. for a definite 
period of time, ad¥ise the Bureau &t least two weeks in advance of the 
expiration of the pE:riod. for which payment has been authorized as to 
whether the ser;riccs of the informant are to be continued., 
Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments. Follow form in 
subsec.tion 3b. . • 
Letters requesting 8.Uthority to cor,"d:nue (increase, decrease) payments 
to an informant should. be subrni-tted in ·duplicate except that the 
cbpy should consist only of the first page of the letter, When 
payments as requested by the field are approved, the single-page 
copy will be stamped "Approvec1" at the Bureau and re·turned, If the 
recommendation is not approved, corresponaence will be prepared. 
and transmitted to the field. • 
In order for this system to function properly, payment letters must 
be explicit. .. . 
When payments are .;:.u.th9rizea. 1)y tr,e Bureau, it is the per~onal respo~si-­
bility of each SJC defini~oly to·~ssure himself that full ialue is 
being reoei ved.. 
Discontinuance of payments 
If at any time St appears the icform~tion being produced by the 
informant is not ccnunensura.te t'lith the payments being made to him, 
the paymen·ts should be immec1iately discontinued or adjusted accordingly 
and the Bureau promptly advised, 
E.;x:t1·~,o.rdinary exper_ses 
In connection with the operation o: paid informants, if any ext'raor­
dinary expenses are anticipated for which approval has not been given; 
obtain specific Bureau authority. 
19 
10-13-61 
NW 38321 • Docld:32989529 Page 141~. 
I 
l i 
i 
' 
! l 
t 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
i 
I 
I I 
i 
i 
l I 
l I 
I ! 
I i ·1 
I 
I 
