' 
I . . - - . 
NW 
_ _;, __ . . 
• • .. • 
~ 
-~-· 
CIVIL RIGHTS MATTERS IN MISSISSIPPI 
Two major civil rights cases ar·e awaiting· 
prosecutive action in Mississippi. One of these cases 
involves the murder of- three civil rights workers near 
Philadelphia, Mississippi, in June, 1964, in which case 
eighteen subjects were previously -indicted on civil rights 
charges_ by a Federal Grand Jury._ The other case involves 
the shooting and bvrning of the residence of Vernon Ferdinand 
Dahmer, past president of the NAACP.,near Hattiesburg, 
Mississippi, in January, 1966, resulting in the death of 
Dahmer. A Federal Grand Jury indicted fifteen members of 
the White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan of Mississippi 
relative to the Voting Rights ~Gt of_ 1965 and Civil Rights 
Statute. 
In view of a.court decision subsequent to the 
above indictments, it was determined by the Government that 
all of the indictments in these· two cases are faulty because 
certain minority groups including Negroes had been excluded 
from the grand jury. The Departm~nt has been pushing for 
early representations to a properly composed grand jury and 
had contemplated that both of these cases would be given to 
a Federal Grand Jury being empaneled 1/16/67. 
On 1/3/67 U. s. District Judge Harold Cox advised 
SAC Roy Moore that he had instructed the U.S. Attorney to 
use the January grand jury for the purpose of checking into 
possible misuse of funds in the Headstart project sponsored 
by the Office of Economic Opportunity in Mississippi •. The . 
Judge referred to press accounts stating that the Government 
was providing additional ·money for this project although 
it has been alleged that several hundred thousand dollars 
of the initial appropriation was unaccounted for. Judge Cox 
said that he felt "first things come first" and ·the ref ore 
decided to use the grand jury to ferret out any possible 
fraud in connection with the f'ailure to· account for these 
funds. He stated he wot1ld advise SAC :Mdore when he convenes • 
another grand jury to hear the civil.rights cases. Judge Cox 
added that this will be done sometime in the near future 
but thaf no specific date has been seto It has been 
speculated in the press that if Jtidge Cox fails to promptly 
~all a•grand jury to hear the civil rights cases the 
Government will seek mandamus from the u. s. Circuit Court 
of Appeals for the purpose of fo~cing Judge Cox to cill a 
grand jury to hear these cases~ • 
- 24 -
.. 
