( 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
( 
\ 
SECTION 10-, .SECURITY INFORYJJ;rTs AND 
8. Instruct each interested Bureau office 1·1hich has mad.e further dis­
semination of suoh information to follow the ins·truotions set forth 
above.· 
107S - U 
9 •. Also set up a control file regarding this correotive action, and. upon 
completion of same submit to the Bureau a fin2.l letter u.nd.er the in­
formant 1 s caption identifying eaoh oase by title, oharaoter, Bureau file~ 
where kno..,.in, and date of communication. 
10. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau f~les to see 
tha·I; necessa.ry corrective action has been ·l;aken in each ins·bance. 
11. If necessary, oJi;her field offices which have received information from 
the informant should also be requested to submit summary le·l;ters show­
ing what corrections have been mad.e 0 
12. It is imperative that all information from the inforrnan·l; be· oorreotly 
labelea. and grec>.t care must be taken to see that ·this is done. 
13. Occasionally, an ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary·to go back and. change the evaluation of 
the information attributed to that individual ~n the absence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was an informant, 
14. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unrelia.bility should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
T. CLASSIFICATION - 134 
u. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
.See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assignment of symbols 
3, 
·4. 
a. A symbol number may be assigned. if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved. . 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnished, • 
o. The abbreviation 11CS 11 may be used in intra-Bureau communications 
for con:fidential source. Communications relating to espionage and 
foreign nationality matters should in addition have a oharaoter 
indicating the country involved; e.g., IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a _permanent symbol has been -assigned ·l;o a confidential source,.· 
the abbreviation 11GS11 is to appear before the symbol n:umber; e.g., 
CS NY-000-S. . -
e. Symbol numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from 
the series of symbol numbers used for your security,[:racial,]and 
criminal informants. 
Index 
a, Index cards on form FJ)-.348 like those prepared for informants must 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant index, 
(racial informant index,)or the security informant index, depending on 
the type of information furnished. . 
b. The symbol h,.lex is handled similarly to the symbol index on inform-
ants. • 
.o. Duplicate confidential source cards m~y·be maintained with the· 
criminal informant index,[racial informant index,)and the security 
informant index if the source furnishes information of value in[these] 
types of investigations. 
Files 
When active investigation is initiated :relative to an ~ndividual who 
_has potential as a security confidential source, a 134 cla&sification 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to develop the individua~ are discontinued. Files may be opened 
on confidential sources in criminal matters in a manner identical with 
that for handling criminal informant files in the discretion of the 
SAC. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1456 
27 
1-13-64 
