[ 4.. (-Six-r,•o::i.t~1.]e-,alua.tion of inf'.:-r:c:.=:.nts not paid on 3urea.u. aus:hority 
I:: t!le informant is not bein,t Da5.d on Bureau authoriz&tion, a communi­
c:: .. tion mu.st be transmitted t~ the Bureau every[ six]months after the 
<hd:e o:f :hsipw.tio:n con·i;aining the same information set out above in -( 
s·u,, ~cct ·.cJ"il 3b except those i terns concerning payments. Recomm.or..dation 
of ,'..\.C , ... ia.rding c,·: :::in.ua.nce of informant should also be set f-:.:rth U.!\.CB. 
I:::-. • pio"'.1tt~e and :1.•-•e;lgn nationality cases comment is necessar:· regarding 
o· those applic'>ble items in subsection 3b. 
5. R : ... ,ts 
Wr .•. ,ayments ~.ro m::i,de ·to anyone for information or assistance on security 
mat·: :·s, either on the SAC' s authority or on prior Bureau approYals receipts 
mnst bu obtained in e"Tery instan,e in which it is possible to do so, If a 
rcoe:i.pt cannot be ob-!;aint,d for a. particular payment, complete circumstances 
sho-uld be set fort;, on the blue sli}l at the j;ime reh:burseuent is claimed. 
a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they ¾ill b~ self-sufficient 
so thai;, if it becomes necei>sary to in·troduce the rect~·i.p-l;s in evidence 
during the conrse of' :;. ·!;rial, the receipts will not relate ~_;o other 
documents or files. 
b. Rece·ipts ~hou.l.d clearly ~how: 
[
l} ·nate on which payment was mao.e 
2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis • 
3) Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for services 
or expenses where these items are pertinent 
(
5
4) naoe of .Agent making payment 
( ) Signature of person rec.ei v-ing the money 
c. Receipts are not to be witnessed by another Agent. 
d. If necessary :to make corrections on the receipts, such corrections 
must be initialed by the informant 2.nd not by the .Agent. 
e. When.transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to the 
Bureau, they should be stapled directly to the bl11e slip, leaving a 
margin of at le~3t one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contact r' th the Acco fastener punch. The staples should be 
placed in such ,. manner that the .c..-.·~e or other data appearing on the 
receipt will nc- : be mutilated and all informa·tion on the receipt can 
be easily read ;dthout detaching it from the blue slip. Care must 
be taken -that receipts are of such a nature that they clearly sho·,; 
:Payment o·f- money and do not refer to any o·ther documentary material 
contr,i.r·.ed in Bufiles, 
6. Income tax returns 
a, Inforr.,ants who receive· compensation for their services to the Bureau 
should be advised that such compensation must be r~po!ted as income 
when ~iling an ~~come tax return. . 
b. Bureau income.should be set forth on the Federal income.tax 
ret·urn, form 104-0t. as income received. from other sources ·for 
personal services rendered through a private enterpri,:•i or 
similar general term applicable to informant I s posi t:i on and. station 
in life. . 
c. If the informant is self-employed and files a schedule Casa self­
employed individual, it may be ponsible to include his Bureau"inconie 
with ~is .s~lf-cmployed income fr~. other sources.withou~ .re~ealing 
connection with the Bureau. • 
d. Eifective 1-1-65,· i:0: those instances in which the inf.orma:nt ~anno·t 
report payment·s received -from the Bureau f~r services without jeop­
ardi:dng his secu:r:ity as an informant, such payments wiil be subje•ct 
to a 20 per cent. withholding tax. There are four categories· of 
circumstances in which taxes will not be withhe],d, Taxes are not· to 
be v;i thheld from payments made (1) to other than security informants 
and sources, (2). for reimbursement of expenses, (3) under SAC . 
authority, or (4) to informants who have been able to report Bureau 
income on their Federal tax returns without jeopardizing their security 
or without challenge from the Internal Revenue Service, • Each office 
has detailed instructions and exhibits concerning the procedure t"o • 
be followed in the handling and control o·f money withheld. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1626 
20 
9-13-68 
