13-00000 
September 16, 1997 
To: 
'From: T.JeremyG 
Subject iewof CIA Records 
. L Background 
·;...---/..' 
The CIA Team has developed a preliminary timetable that we hope will provide a 
reasonable framework for completing our review of CIA's assassination records by 
August 1, 1998.1 We are creating this timetable for three puiposes: 
First, to establish our own working target dates to measure Review Board progress· 
against the mandatory deadline established by the JFK Act. 
j 
·.··?if.. 
. /:;~t'. 
;W 
Second, to provide CIA with our best assessment of the order and scope of our r~~- __ . _ . 
s-o that it can ~e its own internal judgments on the proper allocation of its resources. 
We provided 0A prior drafts of this memo and solicited its specific advice and 
suggestions for better ways to accomplish our goals. [We have not asked CIA to 
''agree"-to these deadlines, but we have encouraged it to provide alternative 
suggestions on how best to meet the August I-deadline.] 
Third, to solicit the Review Board's advice regarding "enforcement" of these (or other) 
targets. Although we surely hope that both the ARRB staff and CIA will be able to meet 
the targets, and although we certainly plan to make all reasonable accommodations for 
problems that no doubt will arise, we nevertheless anticipate that it is possible that CIA 
might not be able to keep to these timetables. Thus, we anticipate that there may well 
be times when blocks of records scheduled for Board review will not have been fully 
processed·by CIA. It is our judgment that, in keeping with our commitment to 
Congress and to the goals of the JFK Act, we may need to have the Board act on groups 
of records for which CIA has not completed its initial review. At the risk of over­
repetitio~ the ARRB staff seeks to be as reasonable and accommodating as it can on 
timetables, provided that tiny proposed clianges are consistent with our obligation to 
complete the task. We realize that this review may have resource-allocation 
1By establishing this target date, we will provide ourselves with a two-month 
cushion to handle possible appeals and miscellaneous issues that doubtless will arise. 
