14-00000 
. . '., ' 
,, . . . 
•.• , ... ' y• (.. ·: - (. ' • 
o. rn mal,lng any c~ct:1ions or other alterations of requested 
' . . 
• ;,,~tc,rials, CLA shnll be b-ound by 18 U.S. C. Subsection 1505 and all 
otht'r applico.bJo statutes·. 
H. R'cquest P,·ocedure 
. 
A. The CIA element responsible for dealing with. the Committee 
is the Coordination and Review Stall of the Office of Legislative Counsel 
. (C&RS/OLC). AU Committee requests for information will be conveyed 
to CIA only via the Coordination and Review Staff. Absent extraordinary 
circumstances,, appointments with CIA employees and former employees 
will be arranged through th~ Coordination and Revie,v Staff. .. 
:a~: All Conucl:ttee re~uests.for in!o~ation will be in w~iting .. • • 
In the i.llterest of timely response,, C&BS/OLC will accept preliminary 
telephone or other oral requests., but no in!ormatlon can be made 
'· • available until a request is received in writing from the Chief 
Counsel or one of the Deputy Cliief Counsels. 
III. Staff Clearance 
• Prior to access by Committee personnel to any material which • 
has been designated.for protection from Wlauthorized disclosure by the 
DCI, such Committee personnel will be granted security clearance •• 
by the Cornrplttee after consultation with the CIA. Committee. personnel 
requiring access to sucl?-material will be required to execute, in advance,. 
the attached Select Committee on Assassinations Nondisclosure AgreemenL - ' 
rv. Transcripts of Statements Under Oath • ·"f 
. w,. 
A steno-typist from either the Committee or the CIA will make a 
verbatim record of all statements of current CIA personnel taken under 
oath. One copy of the record will be made available to the Committee 
and the othe:(' to the CIA in accordance with the Rules of the Committee. 
V. . Examination of Material 
Materials to which access has been granted by CIA will be reviewed 
. in a CIA reading room set aside for this purpose or in a designated area 
within the Committee's offices. • 
.. • VI. Storage of I\,~aterials 
A. Committee procedures for control and storage of any documents 
or n1aterials provided by the CIA which require protection will follow • 
security, standards and procedures established in consultation with.,. and 
approved by, the CIA. 
2 
