13.QOOOO 
'· ; 
... clear and convincing evidence-that the 
threat to the military defense, intelligence 
operations, or conduct of foreign rel~tio_ns of 
tile United States posed by the public disclo­
sure of the assassination record is of such 
~ravity that it outweighs the public interest, 
~111d such public disclosure would reveal-
(8) an intelligence source or method which 
is currently utilized, or reasonably expected 
to be utilized, by the United States Govern-
111e11t and which has not been officially dis­
dosed, the disclosure of which would inter­
fcn: with the conduct of intelligence 
·acti"uities; or 
(C) any other matter currently relating to 
tlie military defense, intelligence operations 
or conduct of foreign relations of the United, 
States, the disclosure of which would· 
demonstrably impair the national security of 
the United States; 
a. CIA sources. 
i. Review Board guidelines. The Review 
Boa rd handled CIA sources, assets, infor­
mants, and specific identifying information 
under standards similar to the Board's deci­
sions for CIA officers. Where the Review 
Boa rd believed • names held a high level of 
public interest, either because the name was 
central to the story or because assassination 
researchers expressed interest in the name, 
the Review Board subjected them to close 
scrutiny. The Board generally protected the 
identity of foreign nationals unless they were 
of high public interest and then the Review 
Board required CIA to provide specific evi­
dence in support of its claimed postpone­
ments. The Review Board protected domestic 
sources, assets and informants where CIA 
demonstrated that release would jeopardize 
ongoing operations or harm individuals. If 
CIA did not provide evidence of one of the 
two above-referenced harms, the Review 
Board released the name at issue. In addition, 
where the public already knew the names of 
individuals who were connected to the CIA, 
especially if the government had previously 
released the information, the Review Board 
released the information. 
ii. Commentary. The Review Board 
addressed the issue of whether to postpone or 
release source names at the same time that it 
51 
~l . . . . riJIE_,~ 1?:f~ 
,.·::• 
considered CIA employee names, and 
encountered the same problems as it had in 
the ie:View of CIA employee names. As with 
CIA employee names, CIA was reluctant to 
provide name-specific evidence to the. Review 
Board, opting instead to offer general princi­
ples supporting CIA's request that the Review 
Board redact all names. 
The Review Board ulti­
mately decided to protect 
the names of sources, 
assets, and informants in 
cases where the identity 
of the • source is of 
reduced public interest 
because CIA sources live 
in countries other than 
the U.S. and were more 
likely to face harm if the 
Board disclosed their 
relationship with CIA. In 
those records where the 
source's identity was of 
possible public interest 
in relation to the assassi­
nation story or was 
important to understand­
ing information related to 
the assassination, the 
Review Board required the CIA to provide 
additional evidence to support the protection 
of the source's identity. 
When the Review Board postponed release of 
source names, it did so for ten years except in 
cases where a foreign government might 
accuse the source of committing treason for 
assisting the CIA. In those cases, the Review 
Board protected the source's name and iden­
tifying information until 2017. 
b. CIA pseudonyms. 
i. Review Board guidelines. With only a 
few exceptions, the Review Board released 
the pseudonyms of individuals. In some 
instances, the Review Board used pseudo­
nyms as substitute language for the individ­
ual's true name. 
ii. Commentary. Very early in the review 
process, the Review Board determined that, 
since pseudonyms were a sort of "throw 
away" identity for individuals who were 
under cover, the Review Board could release 
