13-00000 
-,tct Pl ltMN:WiYtsc t Mta • 1::tr'tcwe·, r • ··1 • v· 
i~1l 
l
!,, 
. 
. 
(PRE-KGB BIOGRAPHY) 
A sensitive source two 
has quoted/KGB officers 
respectively, as stating NOSENKO joined the KGB in 1947 
or 1949. 
THe significance of NOSENKO's RU service is the fact 
that he claims it launched his intelligence career and 
served as the means through which he secured appointment 
to the KGB after once having been rejected. The two or more 
years he claimed to have served in the RU represent a 
significant period of his adult life for which he should 
have no difficulty accounting. Finally, the date of his 
actual transfer from the Naval RU to the KGB is critical to 
determining the time from which his claims about KGI3 service 
can be judged cre<liLle. 
NOSENKO volunteered extensive comment on his Naval RU 
service at his first meetings with CIA in 1962. After his 
1964 defection, it was the topic on which he made one of 
his initial retractions and his first admission that he had 
earlier made a false claim. The subject of his Naval RU 
service was consequently prominent in interrogations in 
1964, 1965 and 1966. However, throughout these interrogations, 
challenges of his assertions about his RU service prompted 
adjustments in his claimed date of graduation from the 
Institute or claimed date of entry into the KGB, just as 
challenges on those latter topics prompted amended state-
ments with respect to his RU service. The extent of the 
still-unreconciied discrepancies and contradictions in 
NOSENKO's various accounts is best perceived in comparison 
of his statements made in 1962, 1964, 1965 and 1966. 
NOSENKO's Information-19t2 
NOSENKO finished the Institute of International Relations 
in 1950 and immediately reported for duty with the RU. 
[He did not amplify how he drew such an assignment.] In 
September 1950 he was offered assignments in Leningrad, 
Moscow, and in the Far East, and he chose the Far East "so 
no one would think he would take advantage of his father's 
position''. He was assigned to a radio signals interception 
unit in Sovetskaya Gavan' {on the Soviet coast opposite 
Sakhalin), where he collected Order of Battle information by 
monitoring the communications of American units operating in 
50 
--Top Secret 
--· ... 
• TS No. 19712-4 
Copy 
.___. ....__ ... 
