('(. 
D 
CG 100-413 53 
Referenced communications concerning RICHARD GIBSON 
reflect that in 1966 former CG 5908-S, when in contact with 
pro.:.Chinese communists in Italy, was apprised of the suspicion 
of the I,talians concerning RICHARD GIBSON, specifically that he 
w~s a CIA agento In connection with their suspicions, the 
Italians requested the informant to check on one DAVIU~ FINE1~N, 
who was ostensibly traveling with GIBSON as a translator. It 
_ was subsequently learned that FINE1~~N was residing in Paris _A1 
at that time but had been a resident of New York City. C. 
Referenced communications from New York and Los Angeles 
concerning FINEMAN identify her background. Chicago has no 
additional information concerning this person and doe·s not, 
in fact; have sufficient. knowledge to determine whether the 
person traveling with GIBSON in Europe in 1966 is identical with 
the DA VIDA FINEMAN who has (;merged· as part of the Revolutionary 
Union. 
The Bureau and Los Angeles are requested to furnish 
to San Francisco any information which would assist in effecting 
an identification of this person, it being believed by Chicago· 
that the definite possibility exists that the person traveling 
with GIBSON is in fa.ct identical with the current member of the 
Revolutionary Union. -~ 
.Chicago would desire to know when FINE~~N returned 
to the United States and if she has any recorded activities 
within left wing movements since returning., It would seem -
tha t her emergence in the Revolutionary Union· is highly C/ • 
suspect in view of the -probability of her former association 
with GIBSON 0 As GIBSONws identify is known to the Bureau a·nc;l 
the interested office, it would seem that the implications 
of a CIA operation are clearly apparent., 
In this connection, San Franpisco letter of 10/30/63 
reflects that HODEE EDWARDS has apparently returned to the Unite 
Stat es from England and San Francisco is presently attempting J 
to verify h'.er residence. In connection with -EDWARDS, it_ will::'.' t!.. 
be rec~lled that·~e had written to the Ad Hoc Committee while 
a house guest of RICHARD GIBSON in London concerning some 
theoretical aspects of pro-Chinese ideology and that GIBSON, 
while in contact with CG 6547.;_S in Chicago, had furnished the· 
~ij 
. ' 
;, 
• I: 
I . 
I 
:1 
. ,, . -----~-----·-----------·---------------------~--j!i 
NW 50953 Docld:32339240 Page 71 
