13-00000 
' 
• 
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY 
Subject: House Government Operations Committee Hearing on 
H.J. Res. 454 (JFK Materials Resolution) 
received a long, single-spaced letter from Justice detailing 
numerous •legalistic• objections to the resolution, which he 
characterized as not reflecting a real willingness to work 
together to release the documents to the American people. 
4. The general tone of the session was strongly in 
favor of the resolution and disclosure of the vast majority 
of the material. ·Most witnesses conceded that there might 
be some materials that required postponement of disclosure, 
but the bias~was clearly toward disclosure. Even 
Oliver-Stone, in response to a comment from Congressman 
Shays that he (Shays) found it hard to imagine what national 
security or privacy issues would persist after 30 years, 
conceded that there might be some exceptions, but Stone 
thought 98 percent of the material could be released. 
Several witnesses, including Congressman Stokes and Church 
Committee counsel, suggested that most national security 
information should be released under the resolution, but 
that privacy interests posed greater concerns. 
Congressman Hamilton warned that the Congress should be 
careful that nondisclosure •loopholes• do not •swallow up 
the bill,• which is why he said that review by an 
independent board was so important. 
5. Stone's testimony had quite an impact on the 
hearing. Several congressman and witnesses credited his 
movie •JFK• as •the reason we are all here today.• 
Chairman Conyers appeared particularly impressed with Stone, 
describing his testimony in exchanges with later witnesses 
as npersuasive• and •compelling.• A few potentially tough 
questions were thrown at Stone--did he.not over-lionize 
Garrison; how much research did he do for the movie and did 
he seek to talk to or obtain information from the government 
as part of his research process? However, there was no 
aggressive follow-up to Stone's answers. Discerning 
observers may have picked up on the fact that Stone's 
nresearchn seemed tailored to and limited by pre-conceivea 
conspiracy theories. (For example, when asked if he had 
talked to President Ford, a member of the War~en Commission 
and advocate of disclosure of the JFK documents, Stone 
answered no--that it was pretty obvious where Ford stood as 
a proponent of the lone gunman theory.) 
6. When asked about his personal views, Stone said he 
believed that there were two conspiracies. The murder 
conspiracy was small and covert-~perhaps involving no more 
that five to ten people--and was led by the "intelligence 
agencies." Stone did not mention CIA by name at this point. 
2 
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY 
