14-00000 
• 5tr' ~ '98 liJl: 47f'M 
At thia point McCone stated that our estimate of the situation. / 
waa somewhat more seriou•. We had noted a continuina increase 
in Viet Cong activity aince_the llret of November as evidenced by 
a larger number of Viet Cong attacks. We alao noticed with 
considerable concern a hip level of measage volwne on the Viet Con1 
military and political networks and thia might quite poaaibly reflect 
preparation.a for further 1u1tained guerrilla proeaurea. P'urthennore 
I 1tated that the military were havin.1 considerable trouble in 
completin1 the political organization of the government and were 
receivin.1 little it any help from civilian leac:lerahip. In.deed it seemed 
to u1 that the competent civilians were staying on the aidelinea and 
continuing their traditional role of cdtlca rather than turning ·in and 
being helpful. I concluded by stating that we could not at this point 
or time give a particularly optlrniatic appraisal of the future. 
The Pre eident then stated that he approached the situation with 
some m.iaaivings. He noted that a great many people throughout the 
country questioned our couree of action in aupportin1 the overthrow 
of the Diem regime. He also noted that strong voices in the Congre•• 
felt we should get out of Vietnam. Both of these facts give the 
President conaidorable concern. He stated that he was not at all sure that 
we took the right course in upsetting the Diem regime but this was a 
decision that he did not have to make as it was a.!!!! accompli. He 
aaid now that it was done, we have to see that our objectives were 
accornplished. (Noto: The inferences were that, left to his own 
device,, he would ~have supported the course, of action which led 
to the coup . ) 
The Preaident then stated he has never been happy with our 
operation• in Vietnam. He said there had been serious dissension 
and division• within the American community and he told the 
Ambassador that he was in total charge and he ~anted the situation 
cleaned up. He wanted no more divisions of opinion, no moi-e 
bickering and any person that did not conform to policy should be 
removed. At thil point Mr. Bundy stated that we were searchln1 for 
a replacement for Truehart ancl what we wanted waa a capable 
administrator who could run the Country Team.. The President again 
repeated his insistence that the Ambassador waa the Number One man and 
he, the President, was holding the Ambassador personally responsible. 
I 
Secretary McNamara stated that he had examined the economic 
situation and that he felt we must give generously of economic a.id 
a.nd must not ask the South Vietnamese gove rrunent to do the impo a sible 
at this particular time. 
- 2 -
