13-00000 
(7.,J pJ 
:~OP SECRET DINAR 
OTHER CUBAN REACTIONS TO THE ASSASSINATION - cont'd 
Carlos Lechuga, Cuban UN ambassador, issued a statement 
early on 23 November stating: "Despite the antagonisms exist­
ing between the Government of the United States and the Cuban 
Revolution, we have received with profound displeasure the 
news of the tragic death of President Kennedy. All civilized 
men are always saddened by happenings such as this. Our 
delegation before the United Nations desires to express that 
this is the sentiment of the people and the Government of 
Cuba." (UPI New Yo~k, 
0
t3, GN
6
vember, UNCLASSIFIED) 
. ab Cuban (!.oreign Minister Roa.)ispa tched a message to 
(£arlos Lechug~ shortly after President Kennedy's asRassination 
asking rtechuga) to "please send me at once all the data that 
you hav~bon Lyndon B. Johnson including his political connec­
tions, etc."@t~chuga) replied imme~ately: "biographical 
data on. Lyndon Johnson are in cabfe (24)of,, Prensa Latina and 
in UPI dispatch 169 and supplements." He also referred &>a)o6 
to "Who is Who" which he had sent ~he(!oreign Ministry) earlier 
and s~id he will cable additional information later.2q (NSA 
3/0,{_cu.t)yT1382-63 and -T1381-63, 23 November, TOP SECRET DINAR) . - Qq' f ~q. "l l.f 
• The Cuban{!oreign Ministry)dispatched a (£_,ircular) message 
late o~22 November to a number of Cubar{_diplomatic mission.s?~ 
abroad tating only "do not make any statements." This was 
probab y an attempt to prevent any comments on President 
Kennedy's assassination untw the official Cuban line could 
be established. (NSA 3/0{9 /T1380-63, 23 November, TOP 
SECRET DINAR) • 
Che Guevara, in a speech on 24··November, expressed 
apprehensions similar to those stated by Fidel Castro the 
night before. Guevara blamed President Kennedy's assassination 
and the killing of Oswald on reactionary forces in the United 
.States and warned Cubans that a new, tougher policy against 
Cuba will be. forthcoming from the United States. "Everything 
indicates that in the next months and years world peace will 
be threatened by the most unscrupulous, ferocious, and warlike 
monopolistic oligarchy--and with the·most murderous potential 
--that the history of humanity has every known," Guevara said. 
(CIA FBIS, 2.5 November, OFFICIAL USE ONLY) 
CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES: 
A Venezuelan Government press conference tying the arms 
cache found in Venezuela earlier this month to Cuba is scheduled· 
for Tuesday, 26 November, according to the US Embassy in Caracas. 
This is to be followed by a report to the OAS, probably on 
2 :Qecember. (Am Emb Caracas 601, 24 November, CONFIDENTIAL) 
-3-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
