-------~-~----------------------;----------------
.... .. 
• 
Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
62-116395 
• 
The interview of Mr. _Mohr began at approximately 
10:20 and was concluded at 12:30 p.m. 5/9/75. Mr. Cregar, 
who was avai!able ih an adjacent room, was not called and 
following the interview, Mr. Mohr assured Mr. Cregar that 
no sensitive areas were addressed by the Staff Members. 
Mr. Mohr did indicate that the Staff Members were in po.ssession 
of FBI doc'liments dealing with the :Socialist Workers Party as 
well as documents obtained by Mr. Carl Stern under the Freedom 
of Information Act (these are our COINTELPRO.documents which we 
were obliged to provide Stern under the FOI}. No substantive 
questions were directed to Mr. Mohr regarding these documents 
but apparently were used to permit Mr. Mohr -to identify who 
might be the final authority in approving these documents. 
As an example, Mr. Mohr noted that in reviewing a sample of 
these documents, he voiced the opinion Document A probably 
would have been approved by an Assistant Director whereas 
Document B might have received the approval of the Director. 
Mr. Mohr was unable to identify precisely what documents he 
was shown. 
It was quite apparent from the interview that the 
Staff of the SSC was t~yi~&~9 y.nde~§tand how the ~low of 
maJ.J _p;t'QG~e4ed in the FBI under Mr. Hoover's directorship. • 
A classic example of the Staff Members' confusion was their 
~nability to distinguish between an SAC letter from a letter 
t0 all SACs. Mr. Mohr attempted to clarify ~his confusion on 
behalf of the Staff Members. With regard to SAC letters, the 
Staff Members asked if there was a file on all :SAC letters. 
Mr. Mohr advised he was not quite sure whether there was a 
single file containing all SAC lett~rs. 
Members of the Staff also asked Mr. Mohr about his 
securing of Mr. Hoover's office after Mr. Hoover's death._ 
Mr. Mohr told the Committee that the articles which appeared 
in 11The Washington Star" by columnist Jeremiah O'Leary was an 
accurate recording of his securing of Mr. Hoover's office. 
Nevertheless the Staff Members desired that Mr. Mohr go over 
in considerable detail exactly how he did secure Mr. Hoover's 
office following his death. 
- 2 -
NW 38196 Docld:32989532 Page 70 
