/ 
AGENT REPORT 
For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence. 
1.· NAME Of SUBJECT OR TITLE Of INCIDENT 2. DATE SUBMITTED 
6 February 1972 
3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER 
•· REPORT OF FINDINGS 
l(,l' 
(i;r; On 4 February 1972, Robert Mo Creed, Sp4, 514-54-4745, Security 
Guard, C •ream, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (LC8424), Federal 
Republic of Gennany (FRG), APO New York 09078, was interviewed at his place 
of duty regarding an incident of possible Counter-Intelligence interest, 
and sta~~ substantially as follows: 
(9? At 1200 hours on 3 February 1972, Creed received a telephone call 
at the unit from John the Dee Jayo John began the conversation by asking 
Source his last name, saying that he had a difficult time getting a hold of 
Source knowing ofuiL.y his first name Bobo Source told John his last name and 
then was asked to spelliit. Source spelled his last name while John repeated 
it slowly as if he were writing it dO'i'Jn. John asked Source if he could meet 
him at the Lord Nelson Bar, Datteln, that evening. Source replied that he 
could and asked John if he wanted him to return the Air Force parka he had 
borrowed from him the previous evening. John said that it was not necessary 
to return the jacket and that Source could hold on to it for a while if he 
wished. John said "You didn't have a chance ~o get to the man at the photo 
shop yet, have you? 11 Source said that he had not. John said tha.t it did not 
matter, it could be done later. John asked Source if he could meet him at 
the Lord Nelson at 2000 hours, to which Source replied that he could. The 
conversation ended. 
Source met John the Dee Jay at 2000 hours, 3 February 1972, 
in the Lord Nelson, Datteln. John was very interested in the Military 
Police that were in Datteln, ·wanting to know why they were in town. John 
stated that he knew they had come from Westkirchen (MC354 9), FRG, and wanted 
to know where they were going next. John was extremely interested in the 
Military Policemen. John was interested in the jeeps that the Military Police 
had with them, two of which were parked in the parking lot near the Lord 
w·elsono John wanted to know what the numbers written in chalk on the jeeps " 
meant. Were they call numbers or code numbers as to the point of origin of 
the jeeps. John mentioned that the radios in the jeeps were nothing, that 
he knew where he could get a radio that could reach Brazil. John mentioned 
Julius and said something about Julius having some military photographso 
John was not clear on this point and Source ·was unable to determine exactly 
what John had meant. John said that he was going to have his photograph 
taken at the .&u.thoff Photo Shop, Datteln, which was a.cress the street from 
the Western Bar, where John resided. John asked Source to bring him some 
war and Army bookso John said all he wanted were some war stories, nothing 
about NORAD or SANRP.S (Special Ammunitions Recognition and Authentication 
System). Source was not positive that John had said S..L\.NRAS because John 
had said it quickly, but Source was fairly sure. John offered to pay for 
all Source's drinks if Source did not have any money. Source returned 
the borrowed Air Force parka to John who was very suspicious about it and 
S. TYPED NAME ANO ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT 6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT 
HEINZE. ICKERT, 66th MI Group 56 
DA 1 ~:~2 34 1 REl'LACES WO AGO FORM 3'1, 1 JUN •7. WHICH MAY BE USED. 
NW 38613 Docld:345.30-612 Page 2 
