SECRET - SENSITIVE 
As a digression, Stein commented that, to the extent that CI staff may 
have gotten into "gray" areas, this may well have been as a result of 
an effort to restrict knowledge of a particular incident to the smallest 
possible number of people. Thus, rather than going to the Bureau, where 
control over the dis similation of the subject information would not be 
possible, the staff might go to another Agency component such as the 
Office of Security, Similarly, where an investigation proved fruitless, conti­
nued maintenance of relevant files by the CI staff, rather than by the Agency 
or the Bureau generally, constituted part of an effort to avoid prejudicing 
the particular subject of the investigation. 
Another general area mentioned by Stein was that involving the use by 
CI staff of people having an historical relationship with the staff. These 
persons would be used against clearly foreign targets in the United States. 
As an example, Stein said that such persons might be used to obtain access 
to codes or the like in this country. 
, 
Stein m;21ti?J;:.;,.d., the allegations· ·relating to the reported breaking and entering 
into the.LC:JiH!~:p:JEmbassy. I told him that we had already reviewed this 
instance, and, therefore, there was no need for him to review it any detail. 
(b) Files on Americans. 
The major source of files on Americans maint.:..ined by CI staffi§,a~. th1• 
"Ameri'can Targets Program" (A '):'P):j This program invo 1 ved - • inf;rma­
tion received by CI staff from Agency sources, from the State Department, 
and from the Military. Information might also be received from the FBI. The 
purpose/ o{:1/\-:J.ajwas to collate all contacts between any American and any 
foreign intelligence officers, particu.larly those from the USSR. The concept 
of the program was that all such contacts would be reported to CI staff, 
which would index them for future reference, 
Stein noted that, although the State Department actually had a formal regu­
lation requiring that all contacts with Soviets be reported, it was extremely 
difficult to convince State .. officers so to.report. @:~ein spent a substantili.l 
amount of time ove'rseasiunder Stat~ c9veiJ He said that, as a result of 
that experience, he knows that State officers are reluctant to report this kind 
of information. (A State officer probably will not achieve promotion by his 
contact with Soviet ·personnel.) As a result of this reluctance, the informa­
tion obtained by the CI staff generally originated with the State Department's 
Office of Security. 
Hlf 50955 Docld:32105622 Page 4 
SECRET - SENSITIVE 
3 
