• TOP SECREI' - 5 -
PlTJsical surveillari.ce 
Mr. Osrorn states that physical SlIT\>eilla.'1ce of individuals in this country 
has reen vc:.ry rare as far as the Office of Security is concerned. He cbu!Jts 
that it has exceeded ten times during his ten\.Lre in the Office of Security. 
He d2scrires those circurnstances under which surveillance has been conducted 
as being limited to the following: 
1. CIA employees and contract agents .believed to be divulging classified 
information to unauthorized persons; 
2 .:.V4.re,.tr"@~'!Sfuei§gi"51to find out if he was getting information from current 
errployees of the CIA; 
3. ')?,,,Jv1i:1btteiii and another legman to detemine their sources 
o classi:fieit- for:rnation,and Miir@lllaei"'tj;@ei~§il.e\r, a staff writer for the 
Washinoton Post, for the sane purpose; 
4. A female agent of the Latin American Division who re[XJrted to the CIA the 
existence of a plot to assassinate the Vice President and to kidnap the 
Director of Cen7:r·al Intelligence. This surveillance was conducted under the 
sup=-rvision of Hr. Ober, of the Directorate of Operations, with the full 
knowledge of the FBI. 
Also included in this surveillance was sere of the contacts of this age.r1t 
in Detroit, Miami, and New York City. T!:e agent involved here was Thelni.,1 
King, and the surveillance took place in 1971. (Mr. Osborn reports that 
a ronversation beb.,:een Hiss King and her case officer in a Ne.v York hotel 
was also covertly recorded.) 
Mr. Osrom is ern::>hatic to the fact that every instance of phvsical surveillance 
in his e..xperi ence was authorized by the Director of Cen':ral Intelligence e.-..:c:ept 
that Mr. Bra•,T.rnan, the Deputy Director for Administration, may have been the 
official to authorize the sw:veillance of errployees, but it is possible that 
these also were approved. by Mr. COlby as 0:::I. Mr. Osborn is also eITq?hatic to the 
effect that. no nerrber of Congress has ever been placed under physical surveillance, 
has ever had his· telephone tapped, has ever been covertly ronitored with resoect 
to any conversations or comnunication!=:J or has ever had a security check perfonred 
on him by the CIA. 
h'atergate Contacts 
1. The McCord Letters: Mr. Osborn states that a letter directed to Mr. llelrr.s 
in late JW1e 1972 was referred to his office as a part of the "crank mail" 
received that day. He recognized the signature on the le.tter as being that 
of a fo:rrrer enployee of the Office of Security, Mr. Jarres McCord. Mr. McCord 
had shortlv before that been arrested in connection with the breakin at the 
DeinocrcJ.tic NcJ.tioncJ.l IIeadauarters on June 16, 1972. Mr. Osoom states that he 
i.nm...~ia.tcly brought- this letter to the .:ittention of Richard Helms, the OCI. 
TOP SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 25 
I 
I t 
I 
i 
