13-00000 
Lack of Interest 
A, the present time, widespread lack of interest 
I ■ Joining a cooperative is more of a problem to po­
, •• ,1,1 organizers than too much demand. The author 
,ac1ed a number of public accounting firms about 
~== feasibility of forming cooperatives and found 
•• 1 three firms who had already made such an at­
t~pt could not interest enough firms to join. Their 
,_eau were: 
We tried 10 organize one several years ago; 
the Cirms contacted were not interested. 
_ we would like to explore this possibility 
but we can't get anyone else interested. 
_ At present there appears, to be a tragic lack 
or Interest locally by other'CPA firms. 
...-;: 
t~questionably, one reason for the lack of inter­
eat is a misunderstanding of the true nature of a 
cooperative. Interested companies must therefore be 
prepared to sell the idea to others. As more pub­
lished material becomes available in the field, this 
problem should be alleviated. 
Confidential Information 
A second major reason for lack of interest is 
1h11 companies fear for the control and security of 
their confidential or sensitive information. Such a 
concern is certainly legitimate and underscores the 
llf'td for a cooperative that is to be successful, to 
devise an adequate system for quality control and 
security. A committee responsible for such a system 
1hould be established at the outset by the sponsor­
Ilg firms. 
Protection 
One of its duties should be to adequately safe-
9uard the sponsors' records and documents against 
fire, theft, water, and other hazards and disasters. 
Statistics compiled by the Safe Manufacturers Na­
tl•nal Association show that about one-half of com­
panies whose important records and documents were 
destroyed through some catastrophe never resumed 
bulness or were permanently closed down within six 
aonths: an additional 13°/4 suffered serious economic 
lllflalrment and were able to remain in business only 
1111dn severe operating handicaps.5 For this reason 
th~ quality control and security committee must see 
that ·the cooperative service bureau maintains: 
protective devices 
lireproof vaults 
a method of reconstructing any destroyed 
records 
adequate insurance to cover loss of impor­
tant client records or documents 
lbe committee must also take measures to prevent 
••e client's records from becoming commingled with 
aaother client's records a not-unlikely occurrence 
111 such an environment. 
Preventing Disclosure 
Finally, the committee should determine how to 
Pre,ent disclosure of confidential ipformation. For 
••••Pie, no member of any sponsoring company should 
k allo-ed in certain strategic parts of the com­
P•ter center. Likewise, each company's records 
should be coded and the code number known only to 
lt) computer center personnel. In cases requiring 
• 1• 0 st security, the actual processing of data 
should be monitored by a key employee of the com­
P•ter center or possibly by a representative of a 
disinterested third party, such as a firm of inde­
pendent public accountants. 
Sharing of Expenses: Startup Costs 
With an adequate number of sponsoring firms lined 
up and a sound security system worked out, the ~hird 
necessity in establishing a successful cooperative 
is to determine methods of sharing the expenses. 
There are two categories of costs to consider: 
1. Startup ~osts. These include all costs incur­
red prior to the time that the cooperative commences 
operations. Startup costs are either directly 
traceable to a particular firm or are joint or com­
mon to all firms. An example of a direct cost would 
be that of analyzing, modifying, and redesigning of 
systems prior to conversion to the computer. An ex­
ample of a joint or common cost would be the cost of 
computer housing, including air conditioning, engi­
neering supervision, false floors, ducts and pipes, 
tranformers or motor generators, cabling and wiring, 
and o'llerhead racks and supports. 
Each sponsoring firm should pay for its own di­
rect costs. Joint costs should be shared equally or 
apportioned among the firms according to some equi­
table formula. 
Operating Costs 
2. Operating costs. These include the monthly 
hardware and software costs to operate the coopera­
tive. Hardware costs refer to the periodic rental 
or purchase charge for the computer equipment. As a 
minimum the computer equipment consists of an input 
unit, a central processing unit, and an output unit. 
Software costs include personnel costs, programming 
costs, testing and debugging costs, magnetic tapes, 
disc packs, punched cards, paper, paper tapes·; re­
pair parts, power, telecommunication lines, and so 
on. 
Operating costs that are directly traceable 
should be paid by the· using firm. Joint or common 
costs can be shared equally or can be allocated to 
each firm based on the number of transactions pro­
cessed or the actual computer processing time used 
during the period. In addition, if so desired, a 
sponsor could be required to pay a minimum or maxi­
mum monthly charge. 
Management 
Fourthly, the sponsoring companies should decide 
bow to manage the venture. It is advisable to form 
a committee to oversee the management and operation 
of the cooperative, A decision must be made whether 
each member regardless of size should have one vote 
or whether another basis of voting should be used. 
This decision should assure participants that no one 
firm will dominate or control the cooperative. 
Common Line of Business 
A factor not to be overlooked when forming a co­
operative, one which will avoid frustrations, com­
plications, and extra expenses, is to see that each 
member is in the same industry or business category. 
Thus all sponsoring firms will have similar operat­
ing problems that can be simultaneously ~olved by 
the computer personnel, resulting in the allocation 
of smaller costs to each firm for each problem 
solved. Also computer programs developed or pack­
aged programs purchase~ can be shared by all spon­
sors with minimum modifications, thus resulting. in 
considerable programming cost savings. 
(please tum to page 13) 
~ 
