lives of millions of Americans _&ith Soviet Missile~]· .. but I can 
say I never did receive any order from President Kennedy or from 
Robert Kennedy about taking action against Castro personally." 
(Lansdale, pp.61-62). Lansdale further testified that he told 
O'Leary that he did take orders from Robert Kennedy, but made clear 
that 11it was on a very wide-rangine; type of thing." (Lansdale, p.62). 
Lansdale testified as follows concerning his statement to the Star 
following the O'Leary report: 
"After the story appeared, the ... Washin~on Star 
asked me what wide-ranging things were you talking 
about? 
11
1 said there were economic matters and military 
matters and military things and they were very 
wide-ranging things. I said perhaps all O'Leary 
was thinking -0f was assassination. I was 
thinking of far wider than that." (Lansdale, pp.62-63) 
O'Leary's report makes clear that Lansdale did not state that 
Robert Kennedy instructed Lansdale to develop an assassination 
plan. 'l'he O'Leary report states: 
"Lansdale said he is certain Robert Kennedy's 
instructions to him did not include the word 
"assassination." He said the attorney general, 
as best he could recall, spoke in more general 
terms of exploring all feasible means and 
practicalities of doing something "to get rid 
of" Castro. 
In view of the above, it appears that although he may have been 
imprecise in his conversations with O'Leary and Martin, Lansdale never­
theless did not tell them that he was ordered to develop an assassination 
plan by Robert Kennedy or the President. As discussed above (seep. __ ), 
Lansdale testified that he never discussed a Castro assassination with 
President Kennedy or with Robert Kennedy. Lansdale 1 s reported statements 
..... 
that he was ordered to plan to "get rid of Castro by all feas·ible means" 
-is also consistent with Lansdale's testimony, as well as that of the other 
witnesses, with respect to the ob,jective of the Mone;oose operation. As 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 220 
