f 
' 
... 
F, 
G •. 
,., 
( 
( 
..,. 
SECTI' 6, 
• 
PUBLIGAT.rmrs, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
PART II 
4, One copy of the circular letter is. to be filed, ;A list of add~esses is to 
be attached. Upon the receipt of a reply, the addressee's ,name. is to be 
checked to indica.te .this fact. Replies which are· entirely neg a.ti ve 
should n~t be filed ~nless there is reason for do~ng so, Only negative 
replies are to be des;troyed after ·handling in accordance with item 3 
above .. Sup-A fil.es. may be- used when the number of rep-lies to be· filed 
. is large, • ._.. , 
. 5. Circular letter.sand other information to be distributed or released to 
the public must b·e.- so word.ed as, to be unobjectionable ·to any race, creed, 
or religio.n, . . . . • _ . . . 
6, Trade publications may, with advance "Bur:eau approva-1, be used to publicize 
information concerning_ fugitives known to be· ac.tive in partic.ular trades, 
businesses, or professions. The field office where .the publication is 
looated should -check' it~ indices. co.-ncerning the publication, as well as 
the person or persons who will have to be contacted, before seeking Bureau 
approval, and suf_ficient., identifying data-·shoul:d be furnished so that an 
appropriate Bureau indic·es: o·heck may be .made•, 
, .. : 
Rl~IO BROADCASTS. ~: 
Radio broap.cas.ts- without advance Bureau· .approval ma:y be made in hot-pursuit 
fugitive cases. •. Care must be exercised in broadcasting a license number 
believed used by fugitive as it may be disposed o~ to an innocent third per­
son, 
FIELD OFFICE LISTS 
1. Law enforoemen.-:t ·O•fwfie:i.-als 
a. On March 1 of each year, all field. offices shall forwar'd to the Bureau 
in duplica.te, and with a space left between the offic-ials of each 
depar~ment, ~ list of such law enforcement officials and agencies 
whose cooperation might be helpful. 
2 Sheriffs [
ll Chie-fs •of police 
3 State police or highway patrol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
4 U. S. Marshals and.deputies 
5 Ranking Federal law enforcement officers. 
6 -Warde~s of penal institutions 
7 District attorneys or county prosecutors 
8 Railway police (if desirable) 
9) Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins -
(10) Any other officials who receive identification orders 
b, Changes in·the list ar& to· be ~eported:to the Bur~au as they occur. 
<?! Letters advis~ng the Bureau of changes are to be set up as indicated: 
City 
Center City, Iowa 
Jonesville, Iowa 
Brownsville, Iowa 
'Deleted 
,. ..: ' -: 
John 11. Doe, Sheriff 
Wayne County 
Richard Brown 
Chief o.f Police 
George Smith 
Constable 
3a 
2-29-60 
· Added • •• •. Remarks 
R .. Roe.~ Sherif:fi 
Wayne County 
George Smythe 
- Deceased 
successor 
not named 
To show 
correct 
spelling 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 927 
