13-0D000 
February 11, 1998 
VIA FACSIMILE 
Mr. J. Barry Harrelson 
Senior Review Officer 
Historical Review Group 
Center for the Study of Intelligence 
Central Intelligence Agency 
Washington, D.C. 02505 • 
Assassination Records Review Board 
600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530 
(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457 
CIA HM NO OBJECTION TO 
DECWSIFICATK>N ANOOR 
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT 
MSAHITIZED 
Re: CIA Initial Compliance Statement To Be Submitted Under the JFK Assassination 
Records Collection Act. 44 U.S.C. § 2107 
Dear Mr. Harrelson: 
Thank you for submitting to the Review Board the CIA's December 11, 1997 DRAFT of 
its initial Statement of Compliance under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination 
Records Collection Act ("JFK Act"). You submitted the draft to obtain the Review 
Board's initial comments. We have made a preliminary review of the draft and offer 
the following comments. 
The Statement is helpful in providing general background history regarding the 
measures undertaken by the CIA to assemble files relating to the assassination of 
President Kennedy. The Statement also gives a good overview description of those 
files. At this time, we do not propose that you make any major changes that would 
delay the formal submission of the initial Compliance Statement to the Review Board. 1 
1 We note that the initial draft statement generally describes the records 
identified in response to specific Review Board requests. For the initial Compliance • 
Statement, this will be sufficient. To the extent that additional records are later 
identified or requests completed, these can be included in the Final Declaration of 
Compliance. We also note that "[t]he status, results and documentation of specific 
[Review Board] requests" are more specifically being addressed in separate memoranda 
being submitted to the Review Board, and this process is ongoing. These responses are 
extremely helpful in articulating what the CIA has done to.search for records on the JFK 
assassination. Therefore, the Review Board will request that these detailed responses 
ultimately be incorporated by reference into the Final Declaration of Compliance. 
BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff• Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: T. Jeremy Gunn • DEPUTY DIRECTOR: Thomas E. Samoluk 
