., . 
( 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
.ION 87. SECURITY !NVEST!GAT :,. 87H 
furnish copies of reports bearing dual character> ''Security of Govcrn­
r,1ent Employees; Security Matter - C," to appropriate intelligence 
agencies of armed services. Instructions regarding dissemination to 
Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office, Defense Supply Agency, 
ColuI11bus1 Ohio, appear in this section of this manual under individuals 
employed in or having access to key facilities - disseminai"iono In­
structions regarding all phases of FBI responsibilities under Executive 
Order 10450 are in section 19, volume II, of this manualo 
h. Individuals who own property or reside in immediate vicinity of instal~ 
lation or other premises under cognizance of branch of armed se~vices 
Disseminate locally to intelligence service of military branch involved. 
~. Airmen issued certificates by Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) 
FAA issues certificates to airmen, defined as persons in command or 
acting as pilot, mechanic, or member of crew in navigation of aircraft 
while under way; individuals directly in charge of inspection, main­
tenance, overhauling, or repair of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, 
or appliances; .and any individual serving in capcj.city of aircraft 
dispatcher or air-traffic control tower operatoro Furnish subversive 
data con~.erning such persons to Bureau by report or LI-IM. In cover 
conmmnica tion, recommend it be furnished to FAA. Dissemination will 
be made only at Bureauo For additional instructions regarding dissemina­
tion to FAA, see MRR, part II, section 5. 
j. Dissemination to Secret Service 
Under agreement between FBI and Secret Service concerning protective 
responsibilities dated 11-26-71 (set qut in section 102, volume IV, 
of this manual), reports or LHMs are disseminated to Secret Service 
(both locally and at[FBIHQ)]in all cases which meet. standards set forth 
As practical matter, this includes virtually all security cases on 
individuals where any substantial information exists as to subversive, 
extremist, or revolutionary activities or sympathies on the subject's 
part. Furnish Bureau extra copy of report or LI-IM in these cases. 
(1) Secret Service must be advised of reason for referral; that is, 
statemen~ of class or classes of agreement which applies to 
subject o Use FD-376 ~ which serves as letter of transmittal for • 
both local and[FBIHQJdisseminationo Forward original and one copy 
to Bureau. Maintain copy in case file and upon transfer.of origin, 
furnish copy to new office of origin. Be certain individual is 
properly categorized. 
(2) If subject of prior investigation is being recommended for ADEX, 
do not disseminate prior reports without first reviewing them 
carefully to insure they meet current reporting standards and are 
suitable for disseminationo If one or more prior reports are· 
found unsuitable for dissemination, prepare LHM cont~ining the 
pertinent information involved for dissemin~ti6n ~o S~cret Service 
along with current report .. Forward copies of such LI-IM to Bureau 
for[FBIHQ]dissemination .. 
(3) After initial dissemination to Secret Se·rvice, as changes occur 
in residence and employment, advise Secret Service locally by 
FD-366 and furnish two copies to Bureauo 
(4) For instructions pertaining to dissemination to Secret Service 
in matters involving threats against President, refer to section 
134B, volume IV, of this manual. 
47 
8-14-72 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 H!:88 
