( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
= -- ... 
8. 
, 
87. ~q,;cmn '.rY l!f{r~STIGATIOi . 
• 
87D 
of the s,nrcc, date of activity> elate i:eceivcd, and name 
of the Atent receiving the infarrnPtion arc known, it ia 
not necessary io request the office originally obt~ining 
the information to docume:nt it further \iy fu1·n:i.ehing 
information showing the location of the original in 
the office files. If .a11· documentation, except the 
latter item, is not in the possession of the office 
preparing the report, it shoul~ be obtained. 
V. If it is found desirable to include in a report the 
identities of: inc1ivi<"!ua1s who arc known coITLrnun:i.sts 
and have bee~ associates of the subject to lend 
weight to ~vidence of the subject 1~ potential 
dangerousness, only the source of the information 
showing the associate to be a communist need_ be 
identified. 
VI. In a very limited number of in~t2.nces it may he necessary 
to obtilin a thumbnail sketch or characteriz;:;,t ion of· an 
individual or organization from another office o:::- the 
Bureau. When such information is received in your 
office, it should be placed in thumbnail sket~h files 
·so that "it will be available to and can be readily 
located by Agents having future need for it, thereby 
eliminating repeated requests of another office for the 
same information. • 
g. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of following submission of ;r.-e:·· -~.;s 
in·security cases 
Channelizing memoranda in organizational !lnd individual security C~'-: 
files may be destroyed following submission of repori;s in these qaH,s. 
In destroying these memoranda, be guided by instructions[for destr·uction. 
of channelizing memoranda as set out in ttanual of R1.1.les and Regulations. j 
Dissemination of data developed in security investigations 
The proper utilization of information received by the ·Bureau is fo:remost 
among our responsibilities as an investigative agency. It is•the Bureau-'.s 
duty to keep the proper intelligence agencies informed concerning infor-. 
mation of interest to them. Further, information which comes to the· 
attention of the Bureau in connection ·with the conduct of investigations 
_normally and regularly within the jurisdiction of the Bure au, whic·h 
information is believed to be of interest to another agency within the 
ex;::eutive branch of the Government, should be forwarded to the interested 
agency unless· tll!-re are good anq. compelling reasons not to do so. '?lds is 
in line with th,• :•,:?limitations .Agreemer.t and P.residenti al direct:i ,. which 
provide for the ·.:ssemination to other agencies of information-,.· .·:ng 
to espionage, s ..-', .;.tage, subversive acti vi_ties, and relate a.· ma·t ·- ·. •• .tere -
the specific agency has a present or potential in·terest in th;: •,.,,:-mation. 
Set out hereafter is a summari;; .. -.tion of existing' Bureau requir?:::-,ents re­
gardintt dissemination of securi ·;;y informatio11 developed on individuals 
during the course of regular investigations in the secur.ity field. It 
~: .. , !!. 
-"' . -. 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 71!4 
79 
4-18-62 
,.,:. 
- j~ 
'..1"" 
-!; 
,:_;, 
:>> 
;;, 
);;. 
