13-00000 
l \ .,. 
split ancl •o:me oi our efforta to exploit aad exacerbate these tension•. 
Mr. Muphy ukecl for apeclflc Wormatlon on the extent of trade, U 
any• 'between ChiD.a &ad the Soviet Union and the amoaut of the ocat­
atancliag CJala••• debt to tile Soviets. 1 agreed to provide this via 
Mr. Coyne. Mr. Ciray uked abou.t the depth aad extent ol 011r 
intelligence from Peking and the China mainland. an.cl waa critical of 
the information acippUecl to '111 by the Chinese Natioa.allata. I aald 
that lntelllge11ce operations In China were not my field but that I would 
make ,af.lre that a report oa this did get to them. 
'). I went oa to cleacrlbe the cult1,1ral ferment within R11saia and 
rec eat action Khr11ahchev bad take11 to disclpllae the dlaaldent wl'ltera 
and artlata. They were very mllCA interested 1n the actiooe welJ:tail 
takea to ezplolt thl• altaation aad pardcalarly iAterested la the current 
laaue of Encoantei- and ill the accoant • tb.ereiA of the 1Chr11ahcl\ev tirade 
at the recent art ezblbltlon. 
10. OIi Cea 1 explal11ed that 1 'WU not in a poeitio11 to brle.f 
them bl depth aacl any q11eatloaa ln thl• field woald be handled by the 
Director or DDP. I did. however, brief them on the Kralak Committee 
and tile rtac:eot meeUaa• ln MaDaltta regarct.101 meas11rea that could be 
taken to llmlt the export of a11bverslon from C11ba. (I have sent to 
them via Pat Coyne the CIA Memoraadum 011 the present acope of the 
Cuaa a11bveralve tralalng effort. ) 
.~ 
. 11. I d•acribed the covert a11pport to the ~~polltic:al parties 
for the lortbcomlng parliameatary election a.a approved 'by the Special 
GroGp. Mr .. Marpby had not prevlollSly known of the decision to lend 
some aelecUve a11pport to the~eaai a.ito11omiata]ud described thls 
decision with aome surprise "a.a qlllte a awltch. "8 
12. Flo.ally~wbea Wormed ol. the ~icy limitation• 2a o-.ir 
relatioQa with tbe~aolara NatloraaUat!}and@olden Rober~ Mr. Marphy 
expressed blmsell u bebag in agreement with tboae llmltatloaa aad 'fl 
eeemed to £eel that the beat coU"ae &o follow waa to uaJ.at the ~rtug11.eai} 
Government lA its attempts to. control the aituation. He aaicl that Ile bad 
met recently for the flrat time withl!oberto Holdei}la New York laat 
week and was not bnpreased by the man. 6 
J 
