SECRET Betsy Palmer 
April 24, 1978 
Volume VIliI Jtily 1962 - AU:§llst 1~6~ 
1. Cable dated July 2, 1962 to Director from San Juan 
cr1ear that ~.anolo Ray wooked upon with great favor by Puerto Rican 
government. No evidence, however, that Puerto Rican government is 
supporting the MRP. Believe record will shov that while our past 
contact 'W'ith Ray has not always been happy one, it always revealing 
of Ray's intentions. • 
2. Memo for Chief, Task Force W from Alfonso Rodriguez 
Subject: Manolo Ray Rivero 
12 July 1962 
"Ray has indicated to WAVE sources that whereas he is not persona grata 
'W'ith the Agency, he has important political connections in Washington and 
is thus kept informed of much of the Agency's activities. Ray's new 
organization is not to be military or engage in military thrusts against 
Cuba because military activity is presently controlled by the Agency and 
cannot be wrested from it at this time. Ray's new organization 'W'ill 
cooperate with the Consejo and attempt to move in on it with the ultimate 
aim of taking over and dominating it." 
3. Memorandum for Chief, Task Force W from Alfonson Rodriguez 25 July 1962 
Subject: :~Ianolo Ray Meeting in New York 
Ray sorI"'J he joined FRD prior to April invation. Let tide of tine suck 
him in and take him along. Obvious to him that show run in good faith but 
bad judgment. Ray discusses hope that JURE will be long-lasting organization 
in Cuo~ Ray's political views ase assessed as democratically oriented, and 
if he became ruler of Cuba, his greatest preoccupation would be with economic 
progress. Rodriguez says Ray is not to be under- estimated. Conrwands 
respect because he is well educated and has something to contribute. 
4. Ray begins to give in:formation about possible defectors from Castro. 
Cable dated 25 July 1962 reports that Ray told 'i·lillard R. Nauman that 
.Armando Hart Davalos is a feasible target. 
,..,.__2 former mgr. , Kings Ranch, Cub2 
i. Additional information to a July 1962 memorandurn from Jack 1,hlom/ (named 
on interoffice route slip). Infornation obtained from difference sources 
from persons close to Ray and their views are complete reliable. Ray did 
not leave Castro's cabinet because of ideological or policy discrepancies 
with Castro but because of a heated discussion with the ~tinister of Labor. 
Eartinez Sanchez, who alraost shot Ray after a Cabinet neeting. '::he sources 
of info::::-mation a6--ree that Ray is not arw different than Castro. some of 
them believe he !Il.ay not have completely severed his relations with Castro 
and think ae may still be in contact with hin. Diplomatic relations we::::-e 
suspended but recognition was not withdrawn. 
\~. 1-;eno from \Jack ]-!;alone~ dated .July 16, 1962 Cover letter addressed 
f>to c. nechen-, Says Ray's ethics are -poor and he is capable of s;-?rifycing 
~ his 1Jwn kin'and friends if such sacrifice turns out in favor.of ~is ~ersonal 
ulans. Claims Ray is irresponsible and ignorant of present international 
conditions and particularly of the Cuban social and economic reality. 
~FCRET 
