l' 
-The defense has made a motion to suppress, based 
on this electronic coverage. After hearing testimony 
regarding these installations, including testimony of 
Bureau personnel, and reviewing logs of the coverage in 
question, the judge instructed that the tria~ should be 
commenced, with the defense having the right to renew its 
mortion ~fter the trial, in the event evidence presented 
warrants such a proceedings . 
... 
Trial was undertaken on 10/17/66. On 11/29/66 
Defense Attorney Walsh suffered a heart attack and further 
trial proceedings have been deferred until March 1, 1967. 
None of the information produced by this microphone was 
utilized in obtaining the indictment of Balistrieri. 
Ronald David Carabbia 
Carabbia was convicted 6/21/65 for violation of 
wagering tax laws and has appealed to the u. S. Court of 
Appeals, Sixth Circuit. The Cleveland Office conducted a 
microphone surveillance at the Modern News Center and 
Novelties Company, Youngstown, from 1/22/62 until 3/22/62. 
Carabbia and his brothers operated a·gambling game at this 
location. Activities covered by this surveillance included 
gambling with numerous participants. The voices of the 
individuals covered were never identified. It could not be 
determined if the appellant was or was not present during 
the operation of this source. 
In response to the Department's inquiry, we 
disclosed to them by letter dated 11/1/66 the circumstances 
of this surveillance and made available for review all 
surveillance logs. By letter dated 1/9/67, the Department 
indicated its intention to disclose this microphone 
surveillance by memorandum to the u. S. Court of Appeals, 
Sixth Circuit. In three letters we have advised the Department 
of the brief operation of.this source and that the individuals 
covered were never identified. The Department's proposed 
•memorandum to the court notes, "There is a substantial 
question whether any conversations in which appellant 
participated were even monitored." In spite of this, the 
Department apparently feels it must disclose this surveillance. 
The Department failed to include our general authorization for 
installation of electronic surveillances over our prot~sts. 
We feel that at the very least the general authorization of the 
Department should be in all briefs going to courts so there can 
be no accusation that the Bureau was operating in an uncontrolled 
and unrestrained manner. 
- 6 - ., 
- - -- --- -------- -------- - --- --
