/ 
I 
' 
UNIVERSAL FIBREGLASS CORPORATION 
FRAUD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT 
Following a partial audit by General Services 
Administration, we instituted an investigation, at Depart­
ment's request, of alleged overcharges to the Government by 
Universal Fibreglass Corporation (Universal) on a $13 million 
contract· to produce mail delivery trucks. All logical investi­
gation has been completed and reported except the review of the 
Universal records. ~ccess to the pertinent records was recently 
achieved through court action and an extensive audit is now 
being pressed. Criminal prosecution of several subjects is 
now indicated. 
Congressman H. R. Gross (R-Iowa) has·publicized 
this matter. Press items have indicated that the office of 
then Senator Hubert H. Humphries may have been instrumental 
in having the contract awarded to Universal. 
YOUTH PRIDE, INC. 
FRAUD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT 
In January, 1969, following administrative investi­
gations by General Accounting Office ~nd Department bf Labor, 
the Department requested we review subpoenaed records of 
Youth Pride, Inc., a Washington, D. C., organization funded 
by Labor Department to help underprivileged youths, to 
identify individuals participating in payroll padding in 
violation of Fraud Against the Government Statutes. Grand 
jury began hearing witnesses March 10, 1969. 
CHROMCRAFT.CORPORATION; ET AL. 
FRAUD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT 
We conducted an extensive investigation in this case 
of a multimillion dollar fraud scheme in which "paper" corpora­
tions were formed to act as subcontractors in connection with 
the production of rocket launchers for the~U. S. Navy. Millions 
of dollars in overcharges to the Navy were channeled by subjects 
into Swiss bank accounts. On August 7, 1968, two corporations 
and four iudividuals, including Francis Rosenbaum, a 1Vashington, 
D. C., tax attorney, were indicted in Washington, D. C., on 
charges ot conspiring to defraud the Government of more than 
$4 million. Trial date is set for Sept~mber 8, 1969. On 
January 29, 1969, civil suits were filed in Federal courts in 
Washington, D. C., and St. Louis, Missouri, demanding judgment 
for double damages arising from the fraud charges in the criminnl 
indictment. 
-6-
.. 
I 
I 
i l 
: 
t 
I 
t ,, 
