-----i • 
' 
·---.·-,,,('."1 
tl ,;, ., .. i 
l 
1 
I • 
. i.1tf.,;~·~~t3i:•·t"'.t 'f ttrr .. ,.,- §.t~ 
'\___,,, v 
5. Illustrative of the uniformly sh-ict interpretation given to 31 U .S .C. 
628 is a decision rendered by the Comptroller General to the Secretary of 
the Treasury and. reported at 37 Comp. Gen. 732 (1958). In this case 
Congress had authorized an appropriation for payment of ineq~itable losses· 
in-pay sustained by military officers under emergency economy legislation. 
but did not thereafter include· funds for this purpose when it enacted appro- . 
priaticins for the Treasury. The Commandant of the Coast Guard had advised 
a subcommittee o.f the House Committee on Appropriations during appropriation 
hearings that, unless the Committee had an o'bjection, it was intended to pay 
. such claims for losses in pay from the Coast Guard appropriation for noperating 
Expenses." Thereafter, the General Accounting Office Claims Division deter­
mined that over $30,000 in such claims we1·e allowable. but the Comptroller 
General was forced to conclude that no claims could be certified for payment 
because there was no available appropriation earmarked for their payment. 
Citing 31 U .S .C. 628 and stating the rule that llthe appropriations provided 
by Congress to the Federal agencies may be used only for the objects for 
which they are made and no others, 11 the Comptroller _General decided that 
the statement made by the Commandant before the House subcommittee did not 
have the effect of makin_g fonds appropriated as "Operating Expenses" available 
for payment of the special claims. ·The Comptroller General held that the 
appropriate recourse was to submit a request for appropriation to the Congress. 
6. In 1849 the Congress 'sought to buttress the appropriation principle 
set forth in the Constitution by passing a law from which is derived 31 U .S .C. 
484. which pro~ides in part: 
The gross amount of all moneys received from whatever 
source for the use of the United States •... shall be paid by the·· 
officer or agent receiving the same into the Treasury. at as 
early a day as practicable,' without any abatement or deduction 
on account of salary, fees, costs. charges, expenses. or claim 
of any description whatever. • 
Also, Section 487 of 31 U .S .C. (originally passed in 1877) provides specifically 
that all proceeds of sales of public prope;ty of any kind, (with certain excep­
tions not relevant here) shall be deposited an:d covered into the Treasuryas 
~HscelLmeous Receipts and shall not be withdrav.-n or applied. except in 
consequence of a subsequent app1·opriation. 
. 
7. Wher_e the Agency 111akes funds availabl~ ta e·stablish a propriet<1.ry 
or to add additional investments, the funds arc recorded on Agency books 
as having been expended and the Director certifies to the expenditure 
fir:-:·. i\1.;:!J. r.·Rol\n • r~ .. . -.·-•• -, .. ,. r iVJ 
JUN 30 fflJ5 3 
.c I.A
. 
~., r ;-: ~:• td 
.. j L '!.J i ! L ~ . 
NW 10955 _Docid.: 32423532 Page 219 
