) 
SECTION 107. .RITY IWFORMANTS .AND COMFIDEN. SOURCES 107.A - B 
.A.. DEFINITIONS 
1. Security informant 
Individual actively engaged in obtaining and furnishing current infor­
mation on security matters excll.tsi vely for Bureau and whose id en.ti ty 
must be protected. Such person should b~ a member or attend meetings 
of a subversive organization, such as the Communist Party; or be in 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or espionage 
activities or intelligence activities in the u. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal that he is able to obtain and does provide current infor­
mation of value. 
2. Potential security infor!Ilant 
Individual in a position to become active in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the u. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be 
in a position actively to obtain and furnish current information to 
Bureau. 
~3. Double_ agent 
A specialized type of security informant; a person who is cooperating 
with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreign 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance. 
4. Confidential source 
An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available 
to h:i.m through his present position. Examples would be: bankers, telephone 
company employees, American employees of foreign official establishments, 
employees of the United Nations Secretariat, and individuals who furnish 
trash in connection with trash covers. These individuals make no 
concerted effort on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain and furnish 
information readily available to them. 
B. SOURCES OF POTENTIAL SECURITY INFORM.ANTS 
Informants should be developed on all organizations and individuals which 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown that potential 
informants may be obtained through alertnass in the course of normal investi­
gative activity. Live informant coverage depends for the most part upon 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SAGs, Fo~ assistance 
in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested: 
1. ;Eva.luation of 
a. Complainants in security matters 
b. Persons interviewed in connection with security cases 
c ,, Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation of party loyalty 
d, Bureau applicants as possible informants 
e. Personal friends and contacts of Special Agents and other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidential sources~ and contacts on con­
tinuous basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
[ 3. Review of[reserve]index 
4. Ascertain possibilities of reactivating former confidential informants, 
5, Survey possibilities of trash covers. 
6. Review factionalism section of file on Communist Party, USA. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding indicatio.ns of disaffection 
on the part of Communist Party members. They, of course, should not be 
informed as ·to the purpose of the inquiry. 
8. Review of files on communist front organizations looking for individuals 
who have been as~oci.ated with only one or two fronts or who attended only 
a few meetings of a front. Su.ch indiYiduals frequently are innocent of 
cor:imunist propensi:ties, yet they hav.e a basis for cultivating the 
acqua:i.ntance of party members. The Progressive Party file al:10 might 
prove a fertile field. 
3 
7-J.5~60 
Docld:32989529 Page 1522 
