13-00000 
·' . / 
! 
the United States, that Dono-van says he is not a Communist, and that Fidel 
didn't know how to go about making any accommodation with the U. S. 
because he was so closely surrounded by advisers who were watching every­
thing he did. Mr. McCone said that Castro had specifically requested that 
the President, the ._¼ tt.: , Ge c I a,1 and the DC! be advised of his attitude. 
Mr. Clifford asked why Castro wanted the DC! to know, and Mr. McCone 
said he had no idea, because at no time during the Donovan negotiations was 
any indication given that CIA was being consulted or advised. Dr. Killian 
then suggested that the Board turn to the briefing on Cuba. Mr. McCone 
said there were several things he wished to discuss before going on to that 
briefing. 
i.. Mr. McCone reported that on coordination the NRO agreement was 
in effect and working pretty.well. An agreement had been reached on the 
complete and comprehensive use of the NPIC facilities by DIA, and NPIC 
was developing well. The Special Group has expanded its review of counter­
insurgency activities to include those of the DOD, and they are now cognizant 
of DOD activities in this field. In the field of current intelligence reporting, 
we are now attempting to correct the DIA and CIA bulletins and to establish 
one bulletin with increased DIA input and with DIA issuing addendum. 
Mr. McCone said this was supported at the DOD stage by the Secretaries. 
He noted that he was attempting to get all issues with the DOD settled by the 
15th of May so that they can be fully implemented before Mr. Gilpatric leaves 
in June. He said that in the clande_stine collection field the work of Defense 
was being fully and carefully coordinated on a regular basis. Mr. McCone 
said that reasonable progress was being made on the five areas of coordina­
tion. He said that he and Mr. McNamara had postponed the reorganization 
of USIB. It was going along all right as it was and they didn't see any point 
of creating problems on the Hill by a reorganization at this time. 
ql\o 
~.. Mr. McCone reported that recent CORONA f:id TACKLE flights over 
Chin,:]Produced the best photography we have ever had, and that he had not 
set up a formal briefing for the Board because of their busy schedule. He 
advised that there was one point concerning ICBM complexes in the Soviet 
Union which he wished to call to the attention of the Board. The last CORONA 
flight had revealed one new ICBM complex and this now located these 
installations in 18 separate places. He noted th~t these complexes ranged 
from four pads to possibly as many as 18~ This might well indicate that 
18 launching pads were standard, and if the support faciliti~s are proportioned 
similar to the one with 18 pads, there might well be as many as 18 times 18 
launching pads, or a total of about 450. Mr. McCone advised that at this time 
we were analyzing each one to determine the level of support facilities. 
- 2 -
