13-00000 
SECRET 
17 May 1996 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Interview with John Whitten (S) 
1. On 22 April 1996, from approximately 1000 to 1600, 
Jeremy Gunn, General Counsel of_ the JFK Revi!vIBoard, and I spoke 
with Mr. John Whitten at the U.S. embassy in Vie~. Gunn 
conducted the interview by showing Whitten various documents and 
his prior testimony before the HSCA. Mr. Whitten was eager to 
help the Board in any way he could and even offered to come to 
the US if need be. Gunn concluded that it would probably not be 
, useful to take Whitten's deposition at a later date. Although 
. Whitten had in general a good memory, Gunn felt he did not add 
• anything of significance to his prior testimony before the HSCA. 
After the interview, Mr. Whitten.took us to his apartment and 
then later to a restaurant with his wife. We left Mr. Whitten 
about 1900. (S) 
2. Mr. Whitten was extremely worried and upset about the 
release of his name and on several occasions in the interview was 
on the verge of tears. Although I was expecting him to be angry 
; with CIA and the Board, instead, he clearly felt hurt and 
. betrayed. His obvious physical problems add to this feeling of 
being vulnerable. Physically he is not well; he is paralyzed on 
! his left side and has great difficulty walking. On a map, he 
pointed out his apartment and indicated what he believed to be 
: serious threats to his safety should his affiliation with CIA 
;beco...me_known. Within a block of his apartment, he pointed out 
ftfie he~dquarters -of the PKK,. the ,¥. ~~cll;i_ ~t party and. a bar where'} 
l.!nany Middle EaE?.terners would congr~gate .;-1te-t·hen po--.l:fl-t-ea--ott~ 
ehese places to us. when we went to1tisapartment. He made it 
clear that there was no way he could defend himself from any 
• attack. (S) 
3. Mr. Whitten also stated that he has been retired for 
almost as long as he worked for the CJA and that he has a 
completel different life.now in~n~ He and his wife have 
. lived in· ienna approximately 25 years. He is a member of 
_rious music and art societies. He sings in a prominent 
Vienna Men's Choir. He has published various articles on music 
is specialty is Johann ~u~ He has received many medals 
· for his work in the artse:n:±ienna-which we saw when we went to 
• his apartment. (S) • 
4. Mr. Whitten is also greatly wQJ::.Xied about the fact that 
he committed perjury _en applying :f.ru::.JAustria§)residency by 
·stating he worked for the State Depc;1rtinentr-He believes this 
SECRET 
CL BY: ~241301 
CL REASO~ I . 5 ( c7--' 
DECL ON: Xl 
ORV FM: HUM 4-82 
