( 
{ 
' 
[ 
IV. 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 809 
SECURITY INVESTIGA. 
unequivocal regardless of Yugoslavia's foreign 
polici_es. 
Standards for inclusion of &ubjects in the speci~l 
section of the security index arc the sa..rne as those 
for any other potentially dangerous sU:b ject. 
When submitting a recom.-nenclatio n for· -prep,tra tio n of 
87D 
a security index card on an individual falling in ·one 
of the above categories, form FD-122 mu~t include 
the words "Special Section" typed in the upper right 
portion thereof. The proper category should be typed 
on FD-122 in the space provided behind the words 
tt:rUSCELL.ANEOUS (Specify) 0 " 
SeouPity index cards tn be placed in the special 
~eotion ~hall bear the appropriate code letter~ in 
the upper right portion designating the subsection 
in which the cards should be placed. Upon receipt 
from the Bureau of the three security index cards of 
subjects in these categories, the required additional. 
data shall be placed on two which shall be filed 
alphabetically in the appropriate subsection of the 
special section. The third card shall be filed in 
the alphabetical section of the security index: Under 
po circumstances should special section security index 
ca~ds be filed in the geographical section of the 
index. 
When a security index subject whose card is maintained 
i~ the special section no longer comes within one.of 
the categories of the special section, FD-122 must be 
submitted with the w.ords "Remove from Special Section." 
typed in the space provided behind the words 11r-IISCELL11NEOUS 
(Specify).» If the card shoul~ be placed in th~ unavail­
able section, the statement 11Place in Unavailable Seotion 11 
should be added in this space. When the new cards 
are received from the Bureau, they-should be checked 
for accuracy and the description and photograph, 
if available, s~•~ld be placed on separate cards 
of simirar size d attached to the back of two of _ .. ,_,. 
the cards. Thes,: -;wo cards should then be fii"ed in 
the geographical or unavailable sec·l;ion ( where appJ.ica ble) 
and the other card filed. in the alphabetical section of . 
the security index. The ol~ cards should be destroyed. 
When a special section subject is scheduled for priority 
apprehension under the detcom program, the special 
section card. shall be app~opriately tabbed. 
It is not contemplated tha:!; subjects·of security index 
cards maintained· in the special section will be app·re­
hended under a mass apprehension program.· The cases 
of such .subjects snall be gi,en individual attention 
upon the• inception of the apprehcns ion pro gram and the 
subjects will not be apprehended in the absence of' 
specific Bureau instructions in each case. 
Unavailable section 
Security index cards of individuals· who are missing, out 
of the country, or are imprisoned shall Ue retained in . 
the unavailable sectio11. This sectio-n shall be broken 
down into three subsections headed by tabs marked 0 Hissing,n 
53 
12-13-61 
' ,;i; 
~ 
,. 
.:i· 
' •:.,-
