.,,. ' .. .,. . . . 
... 
•.,. 
Forcitn Su.rt- ·for Activ_ities Plannl to Disrup~ 
or Harass the Republican National Convention 
SUM~fARY: 
Ther.e is li ttlc new (fvidence of foreign plans· or efforts 
to inspire, support, or tike advan~age of actions designed to 
disrupt or harass the Republican National Convention in San 
Diego, 21 to 23.August 1972. The Students for a Democratic 
Society, .in joining the ranks of domestic groups planning 
·actions at the Republican Convention, has adopted a proposal 
to ~ooperate with Mexican w6rkers and students in a demons~ra­
tion in Tijuana, Mexico, during the Convention. The San Diego 
Convention Coalition (SDCC), another do~estic group targ~tting 
on the CoQvcntion, has received a letter of solidarity fro1n 
the North Vietnamese. The ·1etter is of interest as an indica­
ti6n of Noith Vietnamese contact:with the SDCC; such cohtact • 
will be required _for the SDCC ~o implement its earlier-rer,o:r~cd 
plans for broadcasts over public address systems during the 
Convention of live telephone calls from the Vietnanese in 
Paris. -
DEVELOPME~TS: 
At its recent convention in Ca~bridgc, Massachus~tts, 
h~ld 30 March to 2 April 1972, the Studfrnts for a Denocratic 
Society (SDS) adopted a proposal to hold dcnonstration~ at 
the San Diego-Tijuana border during the Republican ~ational 
Convention. The proposal included a call for SDS ·:o coopcrn:e 
with Mexican workers and students in an action to occur during 
a fiesta in Tijuana, where Convention delegates will be • 
entertained. 
The North Vic~nanesc have given their endorsement to 
the San Diego Convention Coalition (SDCC) in the form of a 
letter from the Vietnam Committee for Solidarity with the 
·American People (VCSK:\P), a quasi-official organ of the 
North Vietnacese Goverrirnent. The letter, which has been 
circulated by the SDCC and is dated ·27 January 1972·, 
• •expresses !'great delight" with the formation of the SDCC, 
and conveys the Committee's "best wishes of militant soli­
darity and friendship." The VCSWAP requcst.s th·at the SDCC 
wri tc often and "send tis materials you hav.e. n 
" I 
... 
I 
\ I 
I' 
00 r--r:-, .. ' ...... C.1 U (,.v 
,j': 
' ! 
:-- .. .. 
