• - Schaefer 
SAC, WFO (1.05;_34566) July 29, 1960 
' 
Directorp FBI ·(105-854)8) 
CEYLONESE ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES 
IS - CEYLON 
For the benefit of t'he New York OJJi ce ~a source of 
WFO furnished information on·2-16-60 which disclosed that the 
Ceylonese Ambassador to the u. s., R.s.s .. Gunewardene·~ while 
assigned as Ambassador in Rome .in 1954 did not cifnceal his. · 
sympathies to representatives of the countries in the npeace 
camp" and that he was often in attendance at cultural and _ 
social events of the •Peoples Democratic States.n In view 
of this information WFO was re·quested to analyze. its informant 
coverage pertaining to Ceylonese activities in the u. s. 
J!'FO's views and recommendations regarding a program for- the 
development. of sources and informants in the Embassy of:Cey!lon 
were requested •. WFO advised it had no coverage at Ceylonese 
establishments at the present time and recommended instituting 
investigations of certain individuals jor the purpose of 
exploiting their potential.: • 
' -
In view of: the information concerni.ng the Ceylonese 
Amba~sador's past sympathies coupled with the Bureau's respon­
sibilities in security investigations regarding international 
trends or developments affecting the internal security of the 
U. s. and our responsibilities for keeping other interested 
agencies advised of current intelligence information, we should 
at this time consider·the possibility of establishing appropriate 
informant coverage within aiz:ceylonese diplomatic establishments 
tn the ll. S. _; ... _ - _ 
• _.1,\ • • ' 
State Department clearance to tnstitute a program 
to develop informants and sources wit·hin all Ceylonese diplornat~c 
establishments in the u. s. was granted on 7-19-60. State • 
. Department related, however, that Ceylonese activities are of 
no particular interest to the Department of State, but in view 
oJ the past activities o'f Ceylon's Ambassador to the u. S., • 
B.s.s. Gunewardene, State would ·have no objection to the 
Bureau developing live sources providing the target ts a 
citizen of the U. s. State related that a contact of a 
2 ...; New York ,____YELLOW 
VRS:ms ouPucATE 
(?) JUL 2 9 19 60 
, ··~, &~:~~! 13,, .. ----,MA~ED • Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives 
., ""'•-.. ; of Fri endlY. Fore lgn Countries) • . 
NW si,l rM.1(~211995~ 60 SER lVOTE PAGE 2 
702 
