13-00000 
8:EORE~ 
SUBJECT: Release of JFK Documents 
~ ---:-------~---=--~-
r:c~ 
(; inquiry about our pre5ent relationship. It is doubtful that our 
/ relationship, and certainly ou~ ver:y sensitive operations, could 
withstand the resulting public'debate. 'l'he existence of Prague 
Station, past and pre8ent, cannot be 8urfaoed at thia tima 
without serious damage to national security. (S) 
6. Public acknowledgment of our stations in Managua, 
San Jose, Panama City, San Salvador, Santo Domingo, Buenos Aires, 
Lima, Santiago, and Montevideo would not further damage our 
operational capabilities in a specific sense. overall, any 
release of information about a clandestine service breeds 
distrust in professionalism and will put future operations at 
risk. (S) 
7. We receive significant nati.ona1. collection systems 
support from Australia which affects national system collection 
. effort$ aga_inst Tier IA targets throughout Asia. We would 
jeopardize thie by releasing tha prasence of our station to the 
public. Tokyo is a special case in that thare is continuing 
disagreement regarding our station. We should not complicate the 
current "Spy Mania" atmosphere in Tokyo. There have been two 
incidents regarding our presence in Japan during the pre8ent •• 
year. Any further disclosure
1
would exacerbate the tension and 
create an untenable operational atmosphere for our station and 
personnQl. (S) 
• 8. .Public acknowledqmant of a station in India. would be a 
problem for the U.S. Government. U.S. and India foreign 
relations are al~ys delicate; the Indian Government is very 
sensitive to pQrceived slights to :its national sovereignty, and 
public acknowledgment of a station would prove embarrassing to 
the Indian Government which in turn could ask that the station be 
closed. If the station were closed or sionificantly downsized, 
it would affect a largQ numbQr of important intelligenca 
collection operations. (S) 
9. Public acknowledgment of a station in TUnisia would be 
a problem for Tunisia vis-a-vis its Libyan neighbor. Libya and 
Tunisia share a border which means the Tunisian Government must 
act with some prudence regarding its relations with Libya. The 
Libyan ,Government would almost certainly r~spond very n9gatively_ 
~--=---------= ~====-
4 
-SBPPE 'L 
