SECRET 
2. The Department of....!2ill~: 
A. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding Cuba at 
the same rate and with the same emphasis as existed prior to that 
date. Between 25 April and 23 May 1963 additional sea surveillance 
was realized between Cuba and Haiti, due to the stationing of the 
Caribbean Ready Amphibious Squadron at the entrance of the Gulf of 
Gonaives occasioned by.the deterioration of internal conditions in 
Hai ti. 
B. Continued the installation of military communications 
facilities in Latin America. Due to noncommunication difficulties, 
the multi-channel radio station scheduled for installation at 
Managua, Nicaragua by 1 July 1963 will be completed on or about 
27 July 1963. Entry negotiations have been completed with Honduras, 
with the T.ilitary radio facilities installation scheduled for com­
pletion on or about'lO October 1963. Negotiations are continuing 
in Colombia and Ecuador for the installation of military radio 
facilities. 
c. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U. s. forces, 
reporting as before, to U. s. commanders, organizations and 
agencies. Reports of subversive movement, obtained by U.S. 
surveillance have been made availabl& for immedie.te tranBilli:ttal 
through U. S . military alerting system. 
D. Reached agreement with CIA on steps to be taken to.prevent 
duplication of effort in opera ting a U-.S. military- .alerting -eystem 
and furnished guidance on this matter to USCINCSO and CINCLANT. 
After clarification of the role of the U.S. Military Groups by 
USCINCSO the military alerting system was again placed in operation 
effective 15 June 1963. 
E. Maintained U, s. forces, for the most part from within 
the Atlantic Command, available to respond to assist in the final 
interception of suspicious craft in territorial waters, upon the 
request of the country concerned. Currently, forces are assigned 
by the United Commander involved to meet the singular problem 
encountered. In somewhat similar circumstances, U. s. forces of 
Atlantic Command have responded to this requirement in the cases 
of the Venezuelan ship ANZOATEGUI and the Italian ship CANNA REGIA. 
F. Had the U, s. Coast Guard Mobile Training Team (MTT) rep()rt 
for duty in the Canal Zone on 15 May 1963 to perform as a Small 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424015 Page 8 
