( 
PART II 
PUBLICATIONS , PRESS , At'ID P'LIC CONTACTS 
6C - D 
C. SPEECHES 
1. The speech program is the personal responsibility of the SAC, and the 
SAC or ASAC should handle principal coDLmitments_ If neither available, 
these can be handled by an experienced and well-informed Agent 
approved for the commitment by the SAC or ASAC. Good judgment should 
dictate when a manuscript should be submitted to FBIHQ for approval in 
advance of a speaking engagement, particularly in rE!gard t_o radio and 
television appearances. . . 
2. It is not necessary to advise FBIHQ of each speaking engagement .. Each 
office will maintain for a minimum of one year and one regular office 
inspection a control file in connection with acceptances and declinations 
of speech invitations .. Each year on January 10th and on July 10th. 
each office will submit to FBIHQ a stat:i.stical report of speaking 
commitments handled .. This will be divided into engagements by the SAC, 
the ASAC, and other Agent Supervisors; and will be further subdivided 
into speeches as well as radio, television, and Career Day appearances 
·oy these three groups. • •• • • •• • •• 
3. Each office should maintain a speech material file for the use of speakers ... 
This should include Law Enforcement Bulletin items, interesting. case 
material, magazine articles, research literature, newspaper clippings 
pertaining to law enforcement matters of interest, and items of value in 
connection with public appearances of Bureau representatives. In addition 
to being maintained in current status, this ~peech material should be 
indexed as to subject matter in the office files. 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
lo Write-ups of interesting cases may be: 
a •. Request~d ·by the Bureau 
bo Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c. Suggested qy other offices 
2. They are prepar~d concerning cases of: 
a. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
Co Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
do Novel investigations of human interest 
3 .. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b .. Bureau file number to appear in upp~r left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjec~s 
do Accurately 
e. After a review of the ·entire file 
fo. In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
go Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
2a 
2-27-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 238 
