SECRET 
An agent who took guerrilla training in Cuba 
last fall has provided a detailed account of his 
training, lists of other trainees he could identify, 
and in particular, a list of questions the Cubans 
apparently gave to all the Peruvians·. Possibly it 
is a standard questionnaire for all guerrilla war­
fare trainees. The Peruvians were asked to pinpoint 
possible sabotage targets such as bridges on a large 
map~ The Cuban instructors also wanted information 
on all kinds of targets for sabotage, chances to 
subvert the police, possibilities for illegal entry 
into and travel in Peru, the problems of setting up 
business firms to cover espionage and agent opera­
tions, and information on location of and access to 
police and military installations. 
Three major guerrilla groups, according to 
good reports from our agents and from Peruvian po­
lice, appear to have reached agreement on a plan for 
coordinated action. This may be one factor that per­
suaded the junta to move against the extremists. 
The main guerrilla strength at present is a 
force which local police in the Cuzco area estimate 
to be as large as 2,000 men. This is the guerrilla 
force led by Hugo Blanco, who is reported by Peru-
vian authorities to have received his guerrilla train­
ing in Argentina. If in fact he has 2,000 men, this 
figure includes landless peasants and Indians, 
largely untrained and unarmed; we have no reason to 
believe that more than a small proportion are trained 
and equipped guerrillas. The Indians, however, are 
almost as deadly with rock slings as guerrillas are 
with rifles. The junta has moved in some troops be­
cause the local police detachments have been unable 
to withstand Blanco's raids. Interrogations and 
agent reports have established that the guerrillas 
are buying weapons stolen from or sold by the Bo­
livian military and smuggled across the frontier 
into Peru. Some of the money is apparently the Com­
munist share of the $100,000 Miraflores bank robbery. 
As one example of ·the activities of the co­
ordinated extremist forces, a lieutenant of the 
Guardia Republicana, assisted by half _a dozen guer­
rillas dressed in Guardia uniforms, attacked the 
village Guardia post in Jauja, 110 miles east of Lima, 
and overwhelmed it. Arming another score of guerrillas 
with the captured weapons, the gang then robbed three 
local banks and retreated to the hills. 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 28 
-2-
SECRET 
