[ 
[ 
[ 
87G 
5. 
,.. ,..., 
SE! , 87. SEC(J'RITY INVESTIGATION 
• d. If, at conclusion of investigation, subject is not being recommen1ed 
fpr security in1ex, set out brief su~nary statemant in appropriate 
closing communication showing reasons. • 
e. Cu,rrent summary rep,:>rt must ba submitted to Bureau when subject is 
bein,t recommended for security index. If ca.se is pending because 
of outstanding leads, set out additional lead to follow authorization 
of security index card by Bureau and, if approved, to disseminate 
copy of report to Secret Service. If case would otherwise be closed, 
place in pending-inactive status with lead to follow authorization 
by Bureau and, if approved, disseminate copy of report to Secret 
. Service and then close case administratively. 
f. Recommendations for security index should not be delayed becaµse ·of 
absence of background or descriptive data. Submit rec-om:nenda.tion • 
with current rep,ort and retain in pendin,g status to obtain missing 
items. , 
g. Subjects missing or out of country may be recommended for ·security 
index. FD-122 should include data required for unavailable section. 
h. When FD-122 is submitted recommending subject of Chinese extraction, 
include words "Other - Chinese" under race. When recommending person 
not of Chinese extraction but who has definite sympathies for Communist 
China, include under "Miscellaneous" following statement: 11sympathetic 
to Communist China." 
i. If Bureau approves recommendation, security index cards will be pre­
pared. Copy of FD-122 will be returnad stamped "Security Index card 
approved and prepared, three copies attached. Place description and 
photograph on reverse side of Geographi~al card.· Cards should be 
filed in your Security Index. 11 These cards should be filed in secu­
rity index as outlined below. Place returned copy of FD-122 in sub­
ject's ma.in file. (Offices with geographical breakdown by residence 
and employment will receive ext~a card.) 
j. When cards are received from Bureau, check data for accuracy. Cards 
will be complete except for description and photograph. Descriptions 
and ~hotographs are maintained on separate cards which are stapled 
to b~ck of two security index cards. File one of these ~ards in 
geographical section (except special section and unavailable section 
cards).[With the exception of Honolulu and Washington Field Offices?] 
file other in duplicate security index maintained(in headquarters city 
in a state of readiness to be evacuated on a moment's notice.]Third 
security index card is filed in alphabetical section. 
Content and appearance of security index card 
a .. Data to appear on face of card 
When complete, face of security in:1e:x: card should contain following 
information. If any items are missing, case should be continued 
pending to obtain necessary information. Set forth under each item· 
are possible categories in which subject may be classified and code 
letters which should ba placed in appropriate space on FD-122. 
Code letters should appear on security index cards received from 
Bureau. 
{1} • Name and aliases 
(2) 
(3) 
{4} 
Full and correct name and aliases of subject 
Race 
White and Caucasian 
Megro 
Chinese 
Others 
(All others, including 
Indians, etc.) 
Sex 
1'1ale 
]'emale 
Citizenship 
w 
N 
C 
0 
Orientals 
M 
F 
Native born NB 
Naturalized NA 
Alien AL 
(except Chinese)~ American 
(If unknown, space should be left blank, but status shou·ld be 
ascertained and submitted by FD-122.) 
'36 
4·-15-71 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1981 " 
i 
· l 
I I l 
