[124-10276-10400[ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 
• 
.. 
~~~H(J 
ADDENDUM: J. B. ADAMS 3/31/75 JBA:ams 
On 3/28/75 Mr. Wannall and I met with Mr. Buchen and Mr. Hills 
at the W:hite House. The purpose of the meeting was to review the role of 
The White House in coordinating the responses of the various intelligence 
agencies to the Senate Committee to insure that there was uniformity in 
complying with Commit tee requests in that any restrictions on the furnishing 
of information were uniform. 
It was determined that there is a unanimity of opinion that access 
-1to raw files would not be granted Committee members or staff as a matter 
of practice, although i_t is n_ot inconceivable that some particular horrendous 
event might arise which is of such significance that access to the files on 
that matter might be granted to the Committee Chairman or a select number 
of Senators. 
We discussed items which we felt were particularly sensitive such 
as identities of informants, sources and cooperative citizens as well as 
information received from: foreign sources. The sensitivity of specific 
details on confidential expenditures was pointed out although we had no 
objection to discussing or making available the gross figures. 
J~k(1)C8) 
We discussed the various means of electronic exploitation in the 65') 
foreign intelligence field including the{Qrkid programlland similar programs, 
electronic wiretaps, microphones, (relex, and electronic penetration of 
communications equipmenQ We pointed out that there were varying degrees· 
I 
of sensitivity involved and each type of surveillance would have to be individually / 
- considered as to the degree of disclosure which could be made to;the Committee. 1 _, 
We briefly discussed activities which had previously taken place 
yet which might be subject of current interest because of newspaper publicity 
and allegations. We were reminded on more than one occasion that it was 
absolutely imperative that the White House not be surprised without being 
forewarned of any earthshaking incidents which might come to light. In this 
' 
context, we mentioned the~nagram program..) the various mail and pouch {S) 
intercepts, the Karot and related cases, surreptitious entries in connection 
with CP, Klan and such investigations. 
[ Cointelpro was mentioned as well as thep~project which srfl1'1,)l') 
was a jomt FBI-CIA microphone penetration -of the at~y in July, j~ 
1971) Mr. Buchen inquired about exploitation of unavailable Government 
records and we mentioned Bureau Source 4, Social Security records, as an 
example.] _ ~ 
- 6 - .!f©lfF 
