14-00000 
ATTACHMENT II. 
Search Methodology and Types of Searches Conducted 
Summary. This Attachment discusses the methodologies 
used in conducting the searches, including what we know of 
the searches which were conducted on behalf of the earlier 
assassination investigations. It includes, in referenced 
tabs, docU!l'\entation of selected taskings. It discusses the 
distributed nature of CIA's paper recordkeeping systems and 
electronic databases and the custom keyword searches that 
are used with electronic databases which CIA maintains. 
Discussion. The collection of CIA materials contained 
in the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) 
"sequestered collection" has existed as a discrete body of 
records since 1978. This material resulted from highly 
labor intensive and systematic searches by individuals 
familiar with the Agency's paper files and records systems 
in use in the 1960s and 1970s. Today, the sequestered 
collection comprises the great bulk of CIA-originated 
documents which can be associated with the JFK Assassination 
and related investigations. 
For most of its history, the Agency has had a system of 
records which has been shaped by .the divergent requirements 
of the directorates in accordance with the wide variance of 
focus in their missions. These basic differences in the 
missions of the directorates, as well as the compartmental­
ization-of-information procedures (the "need-to-know-" 
concept), have resulted in each directorate keeping i~s own 
set of records in accordance with directorate-specific 
guidelines. This applies equally to paper records as well 
as to electronic databases. 2 
Since the late 1970s, the Agency has been in the 
process of converting to electronic databases, which allow 
for electronic searches for documents using keyword and 
2 Even within a single database, information may--in accordance with information 
compartmentalization requirements based on the need-to-know principle--be stored 
in separate files by several offices or divisions, each with its distinct 
recordkeeping criteria and access requirements. In order for a search to be 
thorough, a search for one term or a combination of terms must be conducted 
across all such files. 
