87D 
r 
r 
r -
·( 
[ 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
) 
SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS. 
(E) Membership or affiliation of any other close rela­
tives in subversive groups 
(F) Information regarding defection, expulsion, inac­
tivity, and present sympathies of the subject and, 
if married, of the spouse 
{G) What is expected to b·e gained by the interview 
VIII. In each ·1etter, pertinent information, if avail-
able, regarding the seven items listed above must be 
set out under the appropriate number but the above 
headings need not be restated. If no pertinent data is 
available regarding any of the items, you should make 
the appropriate comments after the respective nur.iher. 
. IX. In addition, unless you are recommending a special 
manner or procedure for conducting the inter7iew, such 
as interviewing under pretext, the last paragraph of 
each letter should contain .the following statement·: 
"'Bureau authority is requested to interview sub,ject in 
accord~nce with existing instructions relating to inter­
views of security subjects." The last paragraph should 
also contain the statement: "If this subject is cooper­
ative, no affirmative steps will be taken during the 
initial interview to direct his activities and complete 
background investigation required by seqtion 107C of ~he 
Manu~l of Instructions is being conducted and 'Bureau 
will.be reauested to authorize recontact with subject as 
a PSI." This statement in no way precludes interview­
ing Agents during initial contact~ and recontacts from 
obtaining all subversive information subject is willing 
to furnish or other data which will assi~t in deter­
mining his potentiali t:i .• , • as an informant. 
X. All letters requesting· eau authority to interview 
_the subject of a secur:i. investigation must be per­
sonally approved by the ic. 
XI. One of the re quired copi ,:; s of the letter to the 'Bu:i;:ea.u 
should consist only of the first page of the le·l;ter. 
When unnecessary for Bureau to issue specific instruc­
tions or comments in connection with authorizing an 
inter7iew, the 'Bureaµ will approve the request by 
placing _an appropria:te rubber-stainp impression. on the 
single-page.copy of the incoming letter and return 
it by roating slip. • 
XII. Upon receipt of-Bureau authority, the interview must be 
conducted within 30 days. If this is impossible, advise 
'Bur.eau of the reasons why the interview was not effected 
and state that the subject will be contacted within the 
next 30 days, At the end·of the second 30-day period 
if the i·nterview has not been conducted, request addi­
tional autcori ty. Include i~ the letters any new infor­
mation bearing ·up_on the advi-sabili ty of conducti.ng the 
interview·., 
( f) Prepara ti ens for and co·nduct of interviews 
I. Interviews must be co::1.ducted by two Special Agents. An 
Agent experienced in security investigations who has 
knowledge of Bureau regul~.tions regarding development 
of infor::1ants must conduct the a.ctu::i.l inte·!·i·ogation. 
Approach need not be made by both Agents at the same 
ti~e and one Agent m3y observe from a secure distance. 
Background of subject and individual c.i.rcumstances 
will determine exactly how approach should be handled 
in each case, Two Agents should ~e physically prese~~ 
during any interview or co11.t~.ct with known or suspected 
Nation of Islam members i~ all types of Bureau oa~es. 
II. PrcparaJ,;ions for j_nterview :nust be thorough an:l con­
ducted so tha~ interviewing Agents will not be compro­
mised, "the Bureau will not be emharrassed, and con­
fidential informants will not be exposed, 
897 • 40 
7--15-60 
