r 
CONFIDENTIAL • , 
Women's Bail Fund 
The following are reflections of some WBF 
members carried under the subcaption "Our Roots - Why 
We Started - Why We Joined". 
"There was a woman in my consciousness-raising 
group who was in the bail fund when it was first getting 
started and she talked with others about it. To some of 
us it was a very exciting idea. To others it was 
frightening - connecting to political activity as women. 
Ultimately it ended in a split of my small group on 
whether we should carry our newly raised consciousness 
to any sort of feminist political action or not. 
"In the past, I was politically frustrated because 
I was only involved in one-shot actions. I saw what was 
happening in terms of how this system functions to oppress 
black people and that resulted in a lot of pain for me. . I 
felt I had to reflect my stands in a day-to~day struggle. 
I had the sense that the women in the WBF were also aware 
of that need. 
"When sisters want us to, we go to court with them. 
When I go to court I find that it can do bad things to my 
head. I make judgements like this ju& is better than another 
one, but it's all shit. All judges are pigs. Or like 
feeling good that a sister got six months instead of five 
years when she shouldn't have gotten anything at all. 
"I was in the House of Detention when there was the 
bail fund demonstration on December 20, 1970. The whole 
tier was so excited. When someone saw the first people she 
let out a scream and everyone rushed to the windows. As 
the chanting increased outside we started to sing and chant. 
They locked us in our cells so each person would be isolated 
and intimidated about chanting. But all th~ women kept it 
up. Everyone inside said the feeling about this demonstration 
was different than other demonstrations. There had been more 
contact. The women saw Afeni and Joan and another woman 
that they had known inside outside in the demonstration. 
That was real important. 
"A lot of it was the bail fund. The bail fund 
banner with the address made it real that p·eople were serious 
abo~t supporting people inside. It wasn't going to be a 
one+shot deal. 
NW 88321 Dodd:3298954£ Page 426 
- 2 -
CONFIDENTIAL 
