\RCOTICS 
:11e members m 
, ,n in the state-
•:t on November 
,vsidence tochy 
I [a,vana, Cuba, 
·r the 'Battista 
:1mbling opern-
11d returned to 
:nnnbers racket 
•, Sr., who died 
led Committee 
Field i<lenti fied 
--ouci gambling 
,·ante took over 
l 'ittsburgh, Pa. 
Trafficante, .Tr., 
. ,n key figure in 
1d long known, 
('City. 
that Trafficante 
Lansky, Joseph 
• 1 assi, Sam 1\Ian­
:: nmvn as Staten 
lder Trafficante, 
.\nthony Tocco, 
in Tirooklvn on 
1 he Hotel "Com-
111oug those who 
,l the Apalachin 
. such as Frnnk 
lhert Anastasia, 
lie life of Santo 
· in a car on the 
··1·, in Cuba. four 
1 e ,,ere told by 
i,:an soil. 
. ,•s for investiga­
nvolved in gnm-
1 the quantum of 
,1 lso been picked 
,;layings of Rene 
1 munlcr on (k­
•·!l in New York 
. suspect bcc:rnse 
·mp~mg to move 
ORGANIZED CRIME AND ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS 525 
in on Tra!licantc's gambling operations in C11lm. Trafficante, using 
the alias "B. Hill/' stayeu with Anastn~ia in the latter's hotel suite, 
on the night of October 24, 1057, and rnmed out approximately I hour 
after Anastasia's nrnr<ler in a nearby barber shop. 
The Depii1t.menfs evaluation of Traf!icante as the hoss of the ::\Iafia 
organization in Tampa was confirmed, of course, hy the positirn identi­
fication of the "Louis Santos of Havana, Cuba,'' apprehended at the 
.Apalachin eonforence in Xornmber of 1D57, as Santo Traflicante, ,Jr., 
of T:nnpa, Fb. 
Furthermore, ,rn have witnessed aml docnme11ted many Y1s1ts of 
ont-of-town racketeers \vith Santo Trafficante and his fellow ho0f1lnms 
of the Tampa area. These visitors give further indications that Trnf­
licante is associaterl ,vith :\fafia members in othPr citiPs. For example, 
Louis Coticchia of Chicaf.Yo, also known as Lou Brady, has been fre­
quentlv seen visiting Trafficantc and on one occasion they were seen 
boanli11g a p]rt,nc together, heading for :\Iiami. 
Othr/ known outside racketeers who ham visited in Tampa with 
Tr:dlicnnte gang membPrs arc .Tolin ,Toseph ·vitale, Salvatore Lopic­
colo. arnl Anthony Gianlano, all knmn1 racketeers from St. Lon is, ~fo. 
Mr. O'DONNELL. I think at the present time, in interest of conti­
nuity, so that the record will read properly, Sergeant de la Llana lrns 
a statement with regard to a courier operation within the Mafia. In 
the interest of time, I am not going to ask him to read it, but I would 
like to have it introduced in the record. 
Do you·have that 1 
:Mr. DE LA LLANA. Yes, I do. 
~fr. O'DONNELL. How many pages does it consist of 1 
~[r. DE LA LLANA. It is five pages. 
The Crr.\nDL\N. GiYe a lwttcr deseription of it and tell us what it is. 
l\fr. DE L,\ LLAN.\. It is "·ith reference to Lo11 is Cotiechia, n l ias Lo11 
Brady, and his visits to Tampa, on various occasions, which first. came 
to our att~ntion on il 13, Hl62. This snhject has rt, long criminal 
record. I lrn.ve :tn 1w·or<l which I will also submit into evidenre. 
The CuAI1t:1L\N. Let the FBI record be rrceind and made e..-:hibit 
No. 46 for reference . 
(Docnment. refonwl to marked "Exhibit No. 4ti" for reference and 
nmy be found in the files of the subcommittee.) 
The CHAIRMAN. Now, your statement, is that. a summary statement 
that you have made and prepared for the record? 
Mr. DE LA LLAN A. Yes, sir. 
The CnAIHJIL\N. Very well, it may be rccei rn<l and printed in the 
record, either at this point. or immediately following the prepared 
statement of the witness now testifying . 
(The statement referred to follows:) 
STATEMENT OF SGT. JACK DE LA LLA:-.A 
One of the clear ties of the Traffic::mte organization with other criminal groups 
Is reflected lJy the contacts with Trafficante made !Jr a man who appears to act 
as a courier for the Mafia. Louis Coticchia. alias Lou Brady, FBI No. 1427493, 
llrst came to the attention of our Department on April 13, lfH}2, when we oh­
~erved him, in Tampa, in the company of Augustine l'rimo Lazzara arnl Frank 
Diecidue, two of the men on our Mafia chart. Bp1·:rnse of this and other con­
tacts made by Coticchia, our intelligent unit 'developed the following informa­
tion about him ~.hich I think is of interest to this committee in giving a profile 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 665 
/ 
