13-00000 
·, 
• 
We go as far in our investigations as is necessary. But we go no further. We· 
do not harass people. We do not conduct an investigation of a man for what 
he may be thinking. We attempt to the very best of our ability to carry out this 
responsibility for internal s'ecurity without adopting tactics of harassment or 
unwarranted investigation, and we will not pursue a security matter beyond 
that which is essential to carry out our responsibilities. Now, I say that because 
that ls the broad field of our policy, and I say it with complete sincerity, because 
I know. I have been in this work with the FBI both in the actual investigative 
field and in the policymaking and supervisory field for 27 years, and I know the 
policies and the procedures that ar'e followed, and the care with which this 
problem ls approached, and I agree with it fully. 
Mr. MoCLOY. You are going to impose a pretty heavy burden on the Secret 
Service when you dump them with the 5,000 more names than they have been 
used to having. 
Mr. BELMONT. It will be more than 5,000, sir. This will continue. 
Mr. MCCLOY. From your knowledge of the situation, do you feel that the 
Secret Service is equipped to cope with this added burden? Is it something that 
you feel--
Mr. BELMONT. The Secret Service, as it has in the past, ls required to call on 
the police for assistance in this field when the President visits a city. I do not 
know the exact complement of personnel of Secret Service, but they are a 
relatively small organization. - ' 
• Mr. McCLOY. It may be they will have to reorganize some of their procedures 
to cope with this, won't they? 
Mr. BELMONT. I do not know. 
Mr. MCCLOY. You have got a pretty broad classification here. "All investiga­
tive personnel should be alert for the identification of subversives, ultrarightists, 
racists, and Fascists (a) possessing emotional instability or irrational behavior." 
That may include a good many people in the United States and maybe some mem­
bers of this Commission-I • am speaking for myself. There is irrational be­
ha vlor that I have been guilty of many times. [Laughter.] This doesn't mean 
you are going to send everybody over there, but the names that-all those under 
your classification, all of those in your opinion come under that classification 
unless you feel they have some, there ls some, reason behind it. ,In other words, 
you are selective in this list. You purport to be selective in the numbers that 
you are going to convey to, the names you are going to convey to', the Secret 
Service. 
Mr. BELMONT. We endeavor to use good judgment, sir. Now, as you indicate 
there are what, 190 million people in this country, and who knows when someone 
may adopt abnormal behavior. 
You cannot tell tomorrow who will pose a risk; This ls an effort to be as 
helpful as possible and, as we have in the past, we will use our best judgment. 
But_ this will broaden considerably the type of people and the number of people 
who go to the Secret Service. • 
Mr. MCCLOY. That is what I am getting at really, Mr. Belmont. iYou are not 
saying that all those people that you characterize here under this paragraph 2. 
will ipso facto be sent over to the Secret Service every time the President makes 
a move. This simply says that all investigative personnel should be alert in that 
situation; am I right in that? 
Mr; BELMONT. No, sir. If you will follow in the next paragraph, we say, "If 
cases are developed falling within the above categories, promptly furnish Secret 
Service locally a letterhead memorandum" with. the information. 
Mr. MCCLOY. So without any further ado all the people in your list who are 
in that category will be transferred over to the Secret Service when there is an 
occasion, when the President travels? 
Mr. BELMONT. No. This is a continuing procedure. Jn other words, during 
our investigations we.come across someone who is in this area or category, and 
this is a requirement that that man's name go to Secret Service with a brief 
description of him, and Secret Service then has that filed and is in a position 
to know that that individual has been referred to them. 
Mr. MCCLOY. Well, that brings up again the comment that I originally made. 
20 
