.. 
( 
I 
WFO 105-8906 
situations like the Cuban crisis. He also requested the :·P1El 
source to bring him a miniphone recording machine from ~~~~ 
the United States. Source stated that he had never ex­
perienced anything else which ~ould indicate the Soviets 
were attempting to compromise him. - :-· 
Source was expelled by ·the Soviets in 1965, only 
after it was known to KGB that he was to be replaced by 
ABC. Shortly after his·return to the United Sta·tes, 1?-e 
was assigned to Hong Kong by ABC and has not been thoroughly 
debriefed concerning his activities in Moscow. -t{,-
2) s·oviet defector Will 1rm■nor advised that 
this individual (SAM JAFFE) was recruited by the KGB 
ab.out 1962. He said when JAFFE arrived in 1961, the First 
Department of the Second Chief Directorate (SCD), which -
operated against the American Embassy, and the Tenth De-
partment of SCD, ·which operated against foreign corre-
spondents, consulted and it was decided that the First 
Department would operate aga~nst JAFFE for the purpose of 1 
recruiting an American agent moving in American Embassy . j 
circles. 4111- said that in 1962 or 1963, VYACF..ES½V .. . j 
, ALEKSANDROVICH KUSKOV was working with JAFFE, but •Ylll~·~v.,,~,~"·"¥. ·,~.,.,.~ j 
did not know if JAFFE was·considered as an agent or just I 
an operative contact.' He did know that KUSKOV was meeting j 
JAFFE and obtained information from him.. - re- ~ 
called also that JAFFE was used by KGB. in connection with j 
trips of two groups of Americans to the USSR, where they j 
met with Premier KHRUSHCHEVo The Seventh Department of j 
SCD, _which !7as ~vorking against tourists ( of which..... ~ 
flllt_, the Tenth Department, and the First i 
Department were all planning work against these groups. 
KGB desired t.o operate agents against them to find out 
,rl1at was said by them after meeting with KHRUSHCHEV. He 
recalled that KUSKOV had been requested to utilize JAFFE 
in this connection and furnished information which he had 
received from JAFFE. ■-ll ■lik said one group was a group 
of businessmen which met with KHRUSHCHEV on 11/6/62 or 
possibly 1963, and another group contained some Congress-
men who came to the USSR in connection with the signing of 
some treaty pertaining to atomic energy. -s-
2 
NW-&8.J21!L0ocld:329:89104 Page 350 
