_,_ ___ _ 
• CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
WASHINGTON,D.C. 20505 
Honorable Mike Mansfield 
• Uriited States Senate 
Office of the Majority Leader 
Washington, D.C. 20510 
Dear Senator Mansfield: 
2 June 19.76 
---· -----. ·-
On 27 January 1975, following adoption"of S, Res. 21 creating the 
Select Committee on Intelligence, you and Senator Hugh Scott requested 
that the Central Intelligence Agency 11not destroy, remove from [its] pos­
session or control, or otherwise dispose or permit the disposal of any 
records or documents which might have a bearing on the subjects under 
investigation, including but not limited to all records or documents per­
taining in any way to the matters set out in section 2 of S, Res. 21, 11 
In response to this request, the Agency placed in effect a complete 
moratorium on the destruction of records, including normal administrative 
records scheduled for routine destruction. 
The purpose of this letter is to advise you that it is our intention to 
proceed with destruction of records, now that the Select Committee has 
completed its investigation and issued its final report. We have so advised 
Senator Church. 
Along with the backlog of routine administrative records, the Agency 
will destroy records which were collected and maintained by the Agency 
and which were subject to investigation by the Rockefeller Commission 
and the Select Committee. The Agency is required to destroy much of 
this latter material by the Privacy Act of 1974 (P. L. 93-579) and by 
Executive Order 11905. Of course, all records destruction will be fully 
consistent with other applicable laws, Presidential directives, and the 
requirements of pending litigation and Justice Department investigations. 
I trust you agree that this action is now necessary and appropriate, 
and I would appreciate your confirmation of this understanding, 
I am sending a duplicate of this letter to Senator Hugh Scott. 
mt 50955 Docid:32423630 Page 290 
Sincerely, 
./ JLJ-" 
~ush 
Director 
