.. ' ...... 
( 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVE E 87C 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIV ~LS 
Candidates for or occupants of-elective public office 
Upon learning of the candidacy for public office of a member of a 
subversive organization, the office of origin should promptly 
furnish FBIHQ with a communication suitable for dissemination 
setting forth sufficient identifying data and a brief summary 
of the individual's subversive activities together with details 
of the individual's candidacy for public office. In the absence 
of a violation of a specific Federal statute, no investigation 
should be conducted until subject's candidacy for public office 
is resolved. Information received during the period of the indi­
vidual's candidacy indicating a specific violation of Federal 
law(s) should be furnished FBIHQ by means consistent with the 
exigencies of the situation along with recommendations as to 
additional action warranted. Other unsolicited subversive infor­
mation received' from sources and informants or obtained incidental 
to other investigations should be channeled to the individual's 
file and, when appropriate, furnished FBIHQ in disseminative form 
with recommendations as to additional action warranted. 
Results of candidacy in every instance should ·be furnished FBIHQ 
under individual caption. Should the candidate have been defeated, 
necessary communication should contain recommendations as to addi­
tional action warranted. Should the candidate be elected, necessary 
communication should contain statement'that in the absence of 
information indicating a specific violation of a Federal statute, 
no additional investigation will be conductedo At such time as the 
individual ceases to serve in public office, the office of origin 
should submit such information to FBIHQ accompanied by recommenda­
tions as to additional action warranted. Should information be 
received indicating a violation of a specific Federal statute while 
the individual is in office, receiving office should submit pertinent 
information to FBIHQ by means consistent with the exigencies of the 
situation along with recommendations as to additional action deemed 
warranted.] 
. 9a 
11-13-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1819 
l 
ii 
I 
i 
