.\ 
·10·, .. ECURITY JNFORHANTS J.Nll CO>!Fl. 'IAL SOURGSS 107P 0. SJlCTION" 
p. SIG NIN(; OF LOYAI/rY OATHS, Al•'FIDAVI'l'S, AlJD ST.ATEMEm:s 
I. Every effort should be made to guide &ecurity informants away from 
situi,U.on:.; roq_uirin[! them to sign 01· fiJ.l out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2 •. Inform;Lnts should .be ca-qtioncd to kf:ep the contact.in[! .A.gent f'uJ.ly 
advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign uuch a 
form. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4. The Bureau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concer.r.in[{ the informr~nt's activity; however, such situ::?.tions 
mu:;t be kep·t; to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to tl:e 
informant. 
5. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to l,e 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed action. 
60 In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
o. DIS(ON'.rnu.i::D INF'ORtlANTS 
1. When the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the na.me card 
"can~,:1lled." Destroy the symbol card. Never destroy the name card. • 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symbol number in the symbol 
number index. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued potential 
security informant or confidential source tu whom a symbol nuillber was 
once assigned. later is reactivated, remove his name card from the 
syr.,bol number index, mark it reactivated with appropria.te date, note 
tht:reon type of information he will no~-; be furnishing, and reflle it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. . 
3. When a potentiaJ. security informant or confidential source is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the. alpha­
betical index card. 
4 . .Advise the Bureau[of the date]when a potential informant or :informant :i.s 
discontinued and the reason therefor. 
5. Advise the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to testify 
in oren court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all cases of security of Government employees type in which the inform,,nt 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance with section 69F, volume III 7 of this manu.al. 
6. Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Depart­
ment's interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available as a witness are contained therein. In those casesin which it 
is evident the Department has indicated a desire to cons~der the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, ·au.vise the Bureau in each such 
substantive case, except in those cases in which it is obvious the statute 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exceDtion 
does not apply to security of Government employees cc>.s es. When all• 
above action is completed, advise the Bureau. 
7. A statement shall also be made to the effect that the measures to con-
··· trol informants, set out in 8 below; have been considered and ·recommenda­
•••••• tions shall be made when it appears that such are warranted. 
··-s. ·when the servit.:es of an informant are discontinued, mainta·in close con­
tact with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Bureau's 
best interests. When an informant is discontinued, determine· whether 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newspaper article, or other­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistanc~ and guidance rather 
than m_aking other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1446 
·24 
4-13-64 
