r [ 
87C 
2. 
SECTION 87. INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVERSIVE 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS 
Investigative procedures 
a. Scope of investigation. 
Data concerning the following items should be developed and reported, 
if pertinent: 
(1) Background information, including 
(a) True name and aliases. 
(b) Date and place of birth. [Where practicable, verify through 
appropriate bureau of vital statistics or birth registraro] 
Residences, past and present. (c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 
(h) 
(i) 
• (j) 
(k) 
Occupations and employments, past and present. 
Citizens.hip status; where applicable, naturalization data. 
Family baclcgroundo If available, include identities of 
immediate family and any information indicatihg they are 
employed in sensitive positions or by u. s; Government. If 
member of immediate family is known to be engaged in sub­
versive activities, include succinct resu~e. 
Military records, including any service in foreign forces. 
Educational background. 
Arrest record and disposition of charges • 
Physical description. Make re~sonable effort to secure 
photograph. . 
Handwriting and/or handprinting specimens should be obtained, 
if readily available, and kept in case file. Special 
efforts should be made to secure such specimens with regard 
to leaders of subversive groups and they should be furnished 
to FBIHQ by letter for attention of FBI Laboratory to be 
included in National Security File. 
(2) Subversive activities and affiliations, including 
(a) Information concerning membership in subversive movements, 
organizations or front groups, date and circumstances of 
admission, positions held, and participation in activities 
of organization (e.g., attendance at meetings or other 
functions, fund-raising or recruitment efforts on behalf 
of organization, contributions, etc.) • 
(b) Statements made or other factors which indicate awareness of 
the subversive nature of group, including irivolvement in 
underground operations, and/or in any other illegal or 
violent actions promoted by organization or movement. 
(c) Information tending to show subject's importance in subversive 
movement or organization, e.go, degree of influence and 
leadership exercised,· close association with national or 
.. local leaders, participation in ~olicy decisions. 
b. Investigative steps 
The following -steps should be considered, bu.t are not all inclusive. 
(1) File reviews. Office indices should be checked. Any pertinent 
information developed should be included ·in initial report. 
·Where logical, check files of other field offices and/or FBIHQ. 
(2) Public source material. Make full use of public records and 
public sources of information, including hearings of congressional 
or·other Government committees both state and Federal, and 
publications, including those issued by subversive groups. 
(3) Check of files of other government agencies, both Federal and 
local, which could logically be e:,.q>ected to have pertinent 
infoi·mation. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 p·age 18:ll! 10 
) 
) 
) 
