to the Special Group that "the proposed actions would not, 
of themselves, bring about the desired result in the near 
future, lacking some decisive stroke against •rruj illo himself." 
(Special Group Minutes, 12/29/60) 
IV. January 12, 1961 Special Group Approval of "Limited 
Supplies of Small Arms and Other Material" 
* On January 12, 1961, with all members present, the 
Special Group met and, according to its Minutes, took the 
following action with respect to the Dominican Republic: 
II 
Mr. Merchant explained the feeling of the Deparbnent 
of State that limited supplies of small arms and other 
material should be made available for Qissidents in­
side the Dominican Republic. Mr. P~rrott said that we 
believe this can be managed iecurely by CIA, and that 
the plan would call for final transportation into the 
country being provided by the dissidents thffinselves. 
The Group approved the project." (Special Group Minutes, 1/12/61) 
A. • Memoranda 1:Jnderlying the Special Group Action_ 
On January 12, 1961, Thomas Mann sent a memorandum to 
Under Secretary Livingston Merchant. The memorandwn,sent 
through Joseph Scott, Merchant's Special Assistant, reported 
on the disillusionment of Dominican dissidents with the United 
States for its failure to furnish them with any tangible or 
concrete assistance. Further, it reported: 
Opposition elements have consistently asked us to supply 
them with '•hardware.,.'of various types. This has included 
quantities of conventional arm~ and also, rather persis­
tently, they have asked for some of the more exotic items 
and devices which they associate with revolutationary 
effort. (Mann to Merchant memo of 1/12/61) 
* The members.of the Special Group were at the time: LTv:Lngston 
Merchant, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs; Gordon 
Gray, Advisor to the President for National Security Affairs; 
John~- Irwin, Deputy Secretary of Defense; and Allen Dulles, 
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
h 
l'.;i . I 
• I A 
mt 50955 Docld: 32423539 Page 395 : ,l • ·• L"! 
