[ 
[ 
[ 
87D 87. SECURI'.P"T INV'I<~STIGt~'J'.L...,. 
(7) Public Law 87-835, ::i.pprovcd ]0-16--,62, amcnrlec1 the Na.t.ion?.J. 
DefenEe Education Act of 1958 ana the National Science Foundation 
Act of 1950 which provide Federal funds for scholarships and 
fellowships. Members of orfan:iza.tions which have rc~i:atercd u~rler 
the Internal Security Act of 1950 or have been ordered to register 
by the Subversive Activities Control Board are p~ohibitcd from 
applying for, using, or attempting to use a· scholarship or 
fellowthip if any part of the fund~ therefor is appropriated 
under these acts. Penalty for vioh~tion is $10,-000 fine or fi-ve 
years' impri sonrnent or both. Acts also require fuJ.J. disclos1:re 
of an_y criminal conviction since applicant I s sixteenth birth.day 
and concerning any pending criminal cha.recs punishable by 
confinement over ·30 days. Title 18, USC, § 1001, applies to 
the latter provision. 
[{B) Refer to section 87G captioned »Internal Security Act of 1950" 
for possible additional violations that may arise unct,,r the 
provisions of the Internal Security Act of 1950.J 
Indi~iduals to be investigated 
It is not possible to formulate any hard-and-fast standards by .which the 
,drc,.ngerousness of indiviclual members or affiliates of revolutionary org.1.n­
izations may be automatically measured because of manner revolutionary 
organizations function and great scope and variety of activities. Exercise 
sound judgment and discretion in eve.luating importance and dan;;;erousness 
of.individual memb~rs or affiliateso 
As a general policy, investigate the activities of any individual falling 
within one or more of the following catego_ries who does not come within 
one of the restrictions on investigations listed under 87D, 5, below~ 
a. Membership in basic revolutionary organizations·subsequent to 1-1-49 
b. E~pous ing line of revolutionary movem-ep.ts 
(1) Any individual who, since the outbreak of hostilities in Korea 
{6-25-50), continued to espouse the line of one or more ~f the 
above-mentioned revolutionary organization·s or related gr<1ups 
.the~eby defining his or her adherence to policies opposed to 
best interests of the U. S0 
• • (2) Espousal mentioned above encompasses.a wide variety and range 
of activities. Membership in one or more·of the basia revo­
lutionary organizations is not a prerequisite to the institution 
of an investigation of an individual within this category. 
(3} Espousal expressed by membership or active participation in 
subversive front groups (whether ·or not cited by the Attorney 
General) must be evaluated in each -case. Cons·ide·r nature and 
type ~f front·organi~ation, as well as extent of individual 1 s 
activities on behalf of the front organization or in support 0 ~ 
the basic revolutionary organization. Open investigation ip every 
instance in which information a~ailable indicates a subject i~ 
actively engaged in the affairs of a subversive front organi­
zation in a leadership capacity or by active_ participation in 
·the furtherance of the aims and purposes of-the front organization. 
(4) Do not open an investigation on mere membership alone· in a frl•nt 
organization in the absence of allegations of active participa­
tion or leadership in the group uniess informa·tion is available 
indicating past membership at any time in a basic revolutionary 
organization or sufficient other derogatory information is ~cown. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 111 
22 
·2-13-63 
• { 
