13-00000 
. . 
··-···.··.··· ,·•-r~ 
~(~.,,~~f~-E ·:-:-. .o-,,.·.:;..:._t 
.., 
-
. . 
Mr. HANKIN. Mr . .McCone, when you said that supplying all of the information 
about U.S. citizens who went abroad and came back to the country would not 
be a profitable exercise, did that comment include the thought that such an 
intrusion upon all citizens would be questionable? 
Mr. McCoNE. Such an intrusion? 
Mr. RANKIN. Upon their right to travel. 
Mr. McCoNE. Well, I think this would have a bearing on it. I did not have 
that particular matter in mind when I made that statement, however. I was 
Just thinking of the--
Mr. RANKIN. Burden? 
Mr. McCoNE. Of the burden of vast numbers involved. 
Mr. RANKIN. Do you have any thought i-n regard to whether it would be an 
intrusion upon their rights? 
Mr. McCoNE. Well, that would be a matter of how it was handled. Certainly, 
if it was handled in a way that the counterpart of providing the information 
was to impose restrictions on them, then it would be an intrusion on their 
rights. 
Mr. RANKIN. Yes. 
Senator CooPEB. May I inquire? 
The CJlAI)l)(AN. Senator Cooper.· 
Senator CooPEB. I missed the first part of. Mr. MeCone's testimony; I went to 
answer a quorum call. Perhaps the question has been asked. 
It has been brought into evidence that a number of people in the Embassy 
talked to Oswald when he first defected, and the various communications with 
the Embassy and, of course, when he left to come back to the United States . 
Have we been able to ascertain the names of officials in the Embassy or em­
ployees with whom Oswald talked on these various occasions? 
Mr. McCoNE. I am not familiar with them ; no .. 
Mr. HELMS, Neither am I, sir. 
Mr. McCoNE. I presume that the Department's inquiries have covered it. 
Senator CooPEB. Is it possible to ascertain the names of those ·employees? 
Mr. RANKIN. Senator Cooper, I can answer that. We have inquired of the 
State Department for that information, and are in the process of obtaining it all. 
• Senator CooPEB. Taking-into consideration your answers to the previous ques­
tion, would it have been possible in your Judgment to have secured more com­
prehensive information about the activities of Oswald in Russia?· 
Mr. McCoNE. It would not have been possible for the Central Intelligence 
Agency to have secured such information ~use we do not have the resources 
to gain such information. 
The CHAIRMAN; Anything more? Congressman Ford? 
Representative FoRD. Did the Central Intelligence Agency investigate any 
aspects of Oswald's trip to Mexico? 
Mr. McCONE. Yes; we did. 
Representative FoBD. Can you give us any information on that? 
Mr. McCoNE. Yes; we were aware that Oswald did make a trip to Mexico 
City and it was our judgment that he was there in the interest of insuring 
transit privileges and that he made contact with the Cuban Embassy while • 
he was there. 
We do not know the precise results of his etfort, but we assumed, because he 
returned to the United States, he was unsuccessful. We have examined to 
every extent we can, and using all resources available to us every aspect of 
his activity and we could not verify that he was there for any other purpose 
or that his trip to Mexico was in any way related to his later action in assassinat­
ing President Kennedy. 
Representative FoRD. Did the Central Intelligence Agency make any investi­
gation of any alleged connection between Oswald and the Castro government? 
Mr. McCoNE. Yes; we investigated that in considerable detail, because infor­
mation came to us through a third party that he had carried on a rather odd 
discussion with Cuban officials in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. The 
allegation was that he had received under rather odd cireumstances a substantial 
amount of money in the Cuban Embassy, and the sta~ment was made by one 
who claimed to have seen tbis transaction take place. After a very thorough 
128 
