SECRET 
There have been at least two recent cases of 
Ecuadoran ret.urnees from Cuba being arrested upon their 
arrival, one of them having been found in possession of a 
large sum of U.S. dollars, and another allegedly having a 
plan of revolutionary action found on his person. In both 
cases -the Ecuadoran authorities had been informed of the 
pending arrivals of these individuals by the CIA station. 
9. El Salvador - The station has called td the 
attention of the Chief of the Salvadoran Security Service 
the fact that the stamping of passports "not valid for 
travel to Cuba" is not being done on a regular basis, and 
received assurance that the Foreign Office and Immigration 
Police would be reminded of their obligation to do this. 
The station is embarking on an expanded program of 
assistance to Department 2 of the Ministry of Defense, 
which is in fact the Salvadoran Clandestine Internal 
Security Service. That service has indicated a willingness 
and desire to combat Guban subversion, but so far it has 
lacked both know-how and equipment to qd so. 
10. Guatemala - The CIA station in Guatemala City has 
found its efforts in this field hampered considerably by 
the apathy and disorganization of the Guatemalan government. 
Early this year the only effective Internal Security 
Service in Guatemala was disbanded by President Ydigoras, 
and no .adequate organization has been established since • 
the Peralta government came into power. Through unilateral 
assets the station has been able to keep itself 
reasonably well informed concerning guerrilla activities 
and travel to and from Cuba. However, it has been unable 
to bring about any effective counter Cuban activity on the 
part of the Guatemalan government~ 
11. Jamaica - New and more stringe!1t regulations concerning 
travel to Cuba were adopted by the Jamaican government during 
May, partially as a result of the urging of the CIA station. 
The Jamaican Internal Security authorities have shown a 
willingness to do everything they can to control such travel, 
arid have indicated a high degree of cooperation with the 
CIA station. 
12. Haiti - Because of the continued political crisis 
in Haiti,. the CIA station activities there with regard to 
Cuban activities have been severely limited and have 
consisted primarily of checks made by unilateral station 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424015 Page 14 
