FBI that Rosselli wanted' to "keep 
square w,ith the bureaq"_ bu~ was. :i 
afra!d that the mob m,ight ~~U •htm for_ 1 
talking. , . • . ~ 
In 1967, after he was arrested ·for 
gambling fraud at the Friars -Club! in .. ,. 
Beverly Hills, Rosselli approached his ' • 
former CIA case·; officer, William Har, 
vey. who sought unsuccessfully to·· in•' 
tercede in the prosecution." • • 
It was against this background that :,i 
Morgan went, first to. Drew Pearson, 1 
and then the FBI, with ,Rossl!lli's sen­
sational allegations of CIA p\otting 
against Castro and the Cuban counter­
espionage dir~cted against P~esident ;': 
Kennedy. . •. • • '. · • ··.-:-
1 
• 
Last April. Rosselli told the Senate 
Intel!ige·nce Committee h'e l'}ad no'rec- :-1 
ollection. of either receiving informa- '' 
lion that Castro retaliated against - i 
-President Kennedy or of having dis• -1 
cussed it with· Morgan. This meant ei-' -
1
1 
ther that Rosselli suffered a dramatic • 1 
memory loss or that Morgan's state­
ment to FBI agents 11ine Y,ears earlier 
was a pure invention, a serious risk 
for an established Washington lawyer. 
No committee source could explain 
the discrepancy, and Morgan declined 
to confirm that Rosselli was the client 
in question or to discuss either his 
allegations against the Cuban govern­
ment or his recent testimony. 
The internal FBI memo on the 1967 
interview with • Morgan was sent, to 
headquarters with a transmittal slip 
saying: "No further investigation is 
being conducted by the , Washington 
field office unless it is advised to the 
contrary by the Bureau." • • 
The Senate intelligence committee. 
in commenting on this position, said 
that "had the interviewing agents . 
known· of the CIA-underworl(jl plots 
against Castro, they would have been 
aware that the lawyer·had clients who.· 
had been active in the assassination 
plots." ' . 
On March 21, 1F.BI headquarters for­
warded the Washington field office 
memo to the White House\ the attor­
ney general andthe Secret Service.',It 
did not recommend any .further in­
vestigation of Morgan'.s allegations. 
On the evening of th,e follo·wing 
day, President Johnson called .CIA Di­
rector Richard M. Helms to'the White 
House. The next morning; March 23, 
Helms ordered the CIA inspector gen-'! 
era! to prepare a report on the CIA . 
involvement in the assassination plots , 
-Operation • Mongoose-of which 1\ 
! I el ms had full k·no~l~g~ a~ .. _th~ tirtie ,;I 
they were executed. - -· I _ --. --1 . i 
By May 22, Helms briefed President; 
Joh~1son on the results.·There is. how-' 
ever, no evidence that Helms briefed, 
• !he.President on the November, 1963, ! 
plo_~=.one of eight major schemes on : 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Paye 640 
. .., 
I 
• ~as~ro's life fro111 1960 to 1965-to as­
s~ssrnate the Cuban leader through, 
't,he employment of an agent with the 
• e;ryptonymn AMLASH. His identity 
~as • revealed as Rolando Cubela. a 
1~61 CIA "recruit" with close access 
to Castro. • -
- I CIA • ;_ : . {operatives turned over assassi-
; nat10n equipment to Cubela during a· 
•· Paris meeting on November 22 1963- .' 
·_'.the qay President Kennedy w~s killed· 
; in DaUas. There has been subsequent 
'. ,speculation that ' the mercurial and . 
: ·talkative I Cuhela was either a double, 
-~ agent or being monitore'd, by Cuban rintelligence. .,, • • ' 
During the later days· of his presiJ 
. dency, Mr. Johnson· spoke cryptically 
,, of a "Caribbean Murder Incoroo• , 
_ rated" targeted 'against·' Fidel Castro.: • 
'i The inspiration for- that statement un-' 
(dpubtedly was· the CIA inspectol,' gen• ., 
ii eral'~ report he ordere'd, HeJms to have tPfepared .. • - - -- · ,,: ···- • . 
i, I Within the past year, p.osselli I and• 
1 two of his co-conspirators in the Cas­
,'i, tto assassination schemes have dieq, 
:; (;iancana al the hands of a profes- • 
:'I sional hit man and Harvey as the re-
: s¥U ·of a "massive heart attack"· last 
I June. . , • 
• • I Mrs; William Harvey, the widow of 
, t~e deceased CIA I official, said she • 
spspected no foul play in her hus' 
p_an~•s death. She did, however, tell 
i~The .Washington Post that she re­
rceived a call after Rosselli's disappear- -
, ~1,1ce in late ,July warning her that Cu-
l. bans appeared to be attempting to 
\fipe out all those who participated in 
l
' the anti-Castro plots. ; 
· I The call, ~he said, came from an old 
friend who was acquainted with Ros-
1
1
- s~llifs sister, whose name is Edith Dai-
, g,le. Mrs, Harvey said that Mrs. Daigle 
: t9ld the mutual acquaintance that ,the 
1 Rosselli family had received a tele­
! phone threat from unidentified C_u­
·-'.• bans prior to Rossel!i'.s disappearance. 
• ~. ! She also said that Rosselli had gone to 
• • meet the Cubans in .an ef{ort to pro- • 
-• tect his family. , •. • --_ --
•• _ Mrs. Daigle could not be reached by 
The Washington Post. But another'sis-
, ter of Rosselli said she had heard of 
; no such threats or warnings. • 
_ Harvey, who died at age 60 and 
.' whose exploits as a clandestine opera-
, : tor are both legendary and controver-
: sial within the agency, testified to the 
Senate Intelligence Committee. He • 
had become Rosselli's case officer in 
Operation Mongoose and supplied the 
. mobster· with poison pills, explosives, 
·-detonators, rifles, handguns, radios. · 
and boat radar for transmission to 1 
,:..:,.'. anti-Ca~tro Cuban age~ts. Harvey and. ': _ 
. Rosselli, a CT A superior testified to -
the Senate committee, ."developed a. 
• cl?se friendship." 1 
_. Another -CIA official who worked 
with RosselU, James\~. 01,onnell. was 
asked if he knew whe\h the agency 
transmitted information to the mob-
• ster on possible Cuban Involvement in 
! the Kennedy assassination. He replied 
that he was out of' the at the 
time Kennedy _ was kill and had no 
( further commen~. , • , . • 
_-; Two months before 
sassination, • 
was identifi Commis-• 
'· sion.as Kennedy's m¥fderer, had trav­
eled to Mexico City••fo an attempt to 
gain entry to Cuba. According to the 
. Warren Commission, Oswald repre-
- sented himself as the head of the New 
Orleans branch of the Fair Piny for 
Cuba organization and a friend of the 
_ . Cub_an Revolution. 
Some three months before Kennedy 
was killed, Castro told Associated 
Press reporter Daniel Harker that • 
U.S. leaders aiding terrorist plans to 
eliminate Cuban lt!aders would them-
selves not be safe.• 1 
A U.S. government committee coor• 
dinating policy toward Cuba at the 
~ , time agreed there is a strong liklihood 
that Castro would retaliate in some 
fashion. HoweveJ, it concluded Castro 
would not risk ~ major confrontation 
with ~he U.S. ~ attacking U.S. lead-ers. r. 
On the same ~lay Kennedy was as­
sassinated, a CIA officer met with a 
. high-ranking Cuban official, ·who had · 
said he would kill Castro, to tell him 
the U.S. would provide him with ex- • 
plosives arid a poison pen device. • 
While the Senate Intelligence Com­
mittee said it found no evidence suffi­
cient to justify a conclusion that the 
Kennedy assassination was part of a 
conspiracy, it also said U.S. iagencies 
_ did not Properly investigate the assas­
sination ,.or tell the Warren Commis­
sion about tpe CIA plots on Castro's life. • 
"There is no indication that the FBI 
or the CIA directed the interviewing• 
of Cuban sources or sources within 
the Cuban exile community," the Sen­
ate committee said. 
According to a former FBI official 
in charge of key aspects ·of the FBI's 
probe of the Kennedy murder,. the 
FBI_ never satisfactorily determined 
1,fhat Oswald planned to do in Cuba or 
what he had done in Russia .. 
