) 
( b) 
87D 
i 
Where r.ntial cangerousne$s of a subj. has been • 
establisaed and inalusion of that subject in security 
index is warranted, the office of origin shall submit a. 
recorr,menda.tion fo::- .inclusion in security index by sub­
mitting form FD-122 to Bureau. Form mus~ be prepared 
in triplicate. Original and one copy shall be forwarded 
to Bureau and one copy will be placed in subject's 
investigative case fileo 
Nothing should appear on FD-122 or subsequently on the 
security index card which is not in the subject's cas& file. 
Form :F'jJ'.-122 has two uses: {1} to recommend a subject for 
inclusion in the security index and {2) to submit changes 
to data which appears on face of security index cards 
already existent. 
Proper selection s~ould be made in the opening paragraph 
option. ;?D-122 is submitted with abstrD-ct when used to 
recommeud· the s-ubject for inclusion in the security index 
and without abstract when used to indicate ·additions,­
deletions, or changes in data appearing on c-xisting cards. 
(c) When form FD-122.is submitted to Bureau recommending in­
- -clusion of a .name in security index, atta:ch additional 
page or pages setti~g out a succinct su.-nmary of facts on 
(g) 
(h) 
-which recommendation has been based. Facts·must be in detail 
·to clearly show soundness of recoir.mendation. [Complete justi­
-fica tion for designated priority level for apprehension must 
· be _included.] Sta:tements of conclusion are not enough and 
_original sources must be characterized as to reliability. 
Sum-nary.must contain pertinent dates of subje.ct 1 s activities. 
When, at conclusion of investigation, subject's name is not 
being recorr,mended for security index, sP.t out a brief 
summary statement in the appropriate communication closing 
the case showing reasons for the decision. 
Security index cards shall be recon;mended by and ~aintai~ed 
by office of origin only. • • 
.A. current .report must be in possession of. the Bureau when 
subject is recor:,mended for security index. If it is the 
initial report in the case, it must be a summary report. 
• If,· however, prior investigative reports have been sub­
·mittcd which are suitable for dissemination and are 
appropriately doc'.!:nented, a summary report need not be 
submi'ttedo 
To assure that subject recommended for security index will 
receive proper attention, case shall be kept in pending or 
pending-inactive status until security index c:;i..rd has been 
. receiv-ed from Bure2.u and filed in office security index. 
If case continues in pending status because of outstanding 
investiga.tio-n, reports shall carry a lead to follow author­
ization of securi-:y index card by th.e Buraau and if a·pprov~ a 
to disseminate a copy of the report to Secret Service in 
addition to other leads. If cm.tsta.nding i·nv·e·st-igation 
has been completed and case would otherwise be cilosed 
~pon submission o~ the report and form }'D-122, case sh:>..11 
be placed in pend::.ng-inac tive status with lead to_ follc,,-.; 
a.uthoriz.a.ti-on of security index card by Bureau and if 
approved to disseminate the copy of the report to ~ecret 
Service. In lattor instance, upon receipt of security 
index card and fo:lowing l~oal dissemination to S~oret Service, 
case may be- cl os,:11 ,id1ainis tra. ti Ye ly. -· 
Recommvndai.ion fer security index card should not be delayed 
bec,nise of a bsen-~.;: of :informa. t:i.011 concc1·rdu(s race, sex, 
citizenship, date and place ~r birth, or description wberc 
security index card. is warran: ;1. In such :tnstanc,:s, rec­
ommendation for- -:;::., card should he s1tb1nii.t0.d wi'L}· • c,lrrcni; 
report and case ~:::.a:.ned in ?e.n(:i-:~, sta-'..u~ \":ith .r :e 
invcstitr~tion con':inuing to d.ct•.!1·1,.1! .. t~ 1ni!}sing it·t. ,: :~. :•f 
inf orma. ti on. 
47 
'::-5-6.8 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 430 \ 
