( 
( 
[ 
[ 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 '625 
~ ,SECTION 87. SECURITY IHVESTir .,IONS 
When it is determined t. a security index 
subject is ii:iprisonod, make arran{!ernents with 
tho confining institutions to be info1·mctd of 
87D • 
the subject's rcleas e. An ad.minis tra tive tickler 
should be set up for a date shortly prior to the 
expected date of tho subject's release to assure 
that you are informed of the subjoct 1 s rele~se. 
Upon receipt of advice of the release of ·Lhc s u:b­
ject,. ascertain whether the subject should be 
continued in the security index. • Ii" so:, submit 
FD-122 in accordance with instructions aet forth 
belowc 
Standards for inclusion of such subjects in the unavail­
able section of the security indox are the sam~ as 
those for any other potentially dangerous subject. 
. ·. 
1-Then submitting a recommendation for inclusion of a 
subject in the unavailable section who has not previously 
been included in the s ecu.ri ty :i.ndex or changing an 
existing security index card from the geographical or 
special sections to the una.vai:;I.able section,. FD-122 
mui;t include the words "Unavailable Section.., typed in 
the upper rig?t portio_n thereof ... 
Places of former residence or former employment 
are not to be included on security index cards of subjects 
who are missing, who are out of the country, or who are 
imprisoned inasmuch as such data serves no use£ul pur-
pose on the card. ,,,,. • 
Security ind~x cards to be placed in the unavailable 
section shall bear 9ode letters in the upper right 
portion designating the subsection in which the cards 
should be placed. Upon receipt of the three cards from 
the Bureau for each subject in one of these categoriess 
place the required additional data on two w1".ich ~hall 
. be filed alphabetically in, the appropriate subsection 
. . 
of the unavailable section. File the third card in the 
alphabetical section of the security index. ..,,.. ,• '-'-
When a subject.who has been iricluded in the unav~ilable 
-section as a missing.subject is located ih your office. 
··•·territory or a subject who has been out of the couniry. 
• •• ----.has' returned to your territory or an imprisoned ·subject 
has been released, submit FD-122[ showing] the· subject I s 
current residence and place of employment. The words 
ttRemove from Ur-·. :-ailable Section" sh~ll be typed in the 
space providec. • ~-hind the words "MISCELLANE.OUS ( Sp 0 ·: fy) i: 
on· FD-122. ·If ;:.i1e subject I s card is to be placed i .. the 
special section, the statemen·t "Place in Special Section 
'Espionage (or "Foreign Government Employee, etc.)" should 
be added in this space. When the new cards are received 
from the Bureau, they shall be check eel for accuracy and 
the description and photogriph, if available, shall be 
placed on two of the thr~e cards. Thes& ~wo cards shall 
then be filed in the geographical or special section· 
{where ipplicable) and the other card shall then be 
filed in the alphabetical section. Th~ old cards in 
the unav-aila ble and alphabetical sections ·shall be de­
stroyed-. : 
When~ subject who has been included in the unavailable 
section is located in another di~ision, FD-128 s~all 
55' 
12-13-6] 
( 
··, 
