. , 
) 
, . .,. 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
-
PART II 
• 
6A - B 
SECTION 6 • P1}]3LICATIONS, _PRESS, AND PUBLIC COHTACTS 
9. In cases involving bombings having a·n apparent racial or religious basis 
with the resultant public interest, the SAC should •issue a statement to 
the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to 
actively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them 
every possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the Bureau's full 
laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by han­
dling out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all invest_igative efforts 
that may indicate any Federal violation. At no time should this statement 
indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility ror 
the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance of this state­
ment requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
[lcr. In contacts with the press concerning a bank robbery, bank burglary, or 
bank larceny no information should be volunteered concerning the 
amount of loot obtained. Specific questions by members of the press 
concerning amount of loot may be answered only following the arrest of 
an individual or individuals for violation o·f the Federal bank robbery 
statute.] 
[11.] Coptes of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press 
release file if exists. 
(12·.] In connection with service awards to Bureau personnel, SACs may provide 
news media with a photograph and a brief biographical sketch of employee. 
No employee may submit to a personal interview by a newsman in connection 
with such an award or under any other circumstances, for that matter, 
without prior Bureau authority. This does not preclude an SAC or other 
Bureau official from issuing news releases in accordance with existing 
Bureau policy. 
B. FBI LAW ENFORCEMENT BULLETIN 
This publication•is issued the first of each month by the Bureau for the 
benefit of law enforcement agencies .. 
1. Contents 
a~ Foreword by the Director 
b. Interesting case write-ups 
c. Articles which might assist law enforcement officers 
d. Insert containing notices regarding the ten most wanted fugitives; 
fugitives wanted by the Bureau and the police, including fingerprint 
classifications and physical descriptions; a limited numper of 
miss_ing persons with their photographs 
• 2. Distribution 
Limited to law enforcement officers and others engaged in or having a 
legitimate interest in law enforcement work 
3. Filing and indexing 
a. In a 66 classification file, bound on the side, and fully indexed .. 
Informative matter to be indexed under subject matter. Fo.r uni­
formity, the Bureau is to forward by routing slip to all divi­
sions each month an indexing list of the basic and pertinent 
items to be indexed. Index cards are to be ~repareA by each 
office. Any additional i terns not list.~d but considered to be 
worthy of indexing by a particular office should also be indexed. 
The indexing lists are to be destroyed after the field office 
inspection by SOG. 
b. This file may be destroyed when it is over five years old. Retain. 
index cards. 
c. Current copy should be placed in bookcasfr, available to all Agents. 
lb 
6-26-TO 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1038 
