( 
-jtJ-
There was considerable communication among the various plotting 
elements. As Thomas Karame.ssines testified: 
... ! might add here that it seemed that a good 
dozen or more, maybe 20 Chilean senior officers 
were privy to wh~t was going on(in addition to 
President Frei>nd) they were all talking to one 
another exchanging views and trying to see how 
best to mount the kind of coup that they wanted 
to see take place. (Karamessines testimony, p. 10) 
B. Contacts Prior to October 15 
The CIA's initial task in Chile was to assess the potential within 
the Chilean military to stage a coup. It recognized quickly that anti­
Allende currents did exist in the military and the Carabineros (police), 
but were immobilized by "the tradition of mjJ.itary respect for the 
Constitution" and "the public and private stance of General Schneider, 
Commander in Chief of the Army, who advocated strict adherence to the 
Constitution." (CIA Report on Chilean Task Force Activities, 18 Novem-
ber 1970, p. 17) The Agency's task, then, was to overcome "the apolitical, 
constitutional-oriented inertia of the Chilean military." (Ibid, p. 2) 
Since the very top of the Chilean military, embodied by General 
Schneider and his second-in-command, General Prat, were hostile to the 
idea of a coup against Allende, discreet approaches were made to the 
second level of general officers. They were to be informed that the U.S. 
* Government would support a coup both before and after it took place. 
(Headquarters to__5tation 611, 7 October 1970) This effort began in 
r earnest on October 5 when f::olonel Wimert)informed both an Army General 
("Station's priority contact") an an Air For,ce 
l ; 
l 
/• 
G~era~ of the pro-coup I • \ 
I 
* The military officers were told, for example, that should Allende be 
prevented from taking office, "The Chilean military will not be ostra­
cized, but rather can continue to count on us for MAP support and main­
tenance of our close relationship." (Hqs. 075517, 7 October 1970) 
,. . 
·., 
-
