( 
t l 
! l 
1 I 
~ 
( 
JI ( 
i 
1· 
•' 
I· 
i 1, 
l 
i 
f[ 
1 
t-
C I i i" '! ! 
i 
1 L 
! l 
{ 
s 
) 
1!· M. 
l 
t I 
f ,: 
I ! 
i 
• 
8. 
SECTION 107. SECURITY INFOPJ1A.NTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 
Co,ect, full name -
All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
First date of contact by your office 
107L-M 
If first contact was prior to _Septembe.r, 1944, nam~s of all 
SAs, SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may ~ave made payments 
(5) Tabulation of all payments, broken down as to. services and 
expenses. Although tabulations are not furnished to Depart­
ment, those prepared by your -o:ffice will be- reconciled with 
Bureau records. 
(6) Listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
advances 
(7
8
) Date of last contact by your office 
{ ) Whetp.er individ.ual has been contacted: by any other office 
b. Each individual and each item of information must-be account~d for~ 
If no contact was made with particular individual,·Bureau must be 
so advised. 
c. Where informant has previously been used and tabulation of payments 
was prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be given only 
from date of las-t trial in which individual was used. 
d. Above tnformation should be submitted separate and apart fro~ cor­
respondence setting fort~ derogatory information, and should be ad­
dressed to ·attention of[Voucher-Statistical Section, Computer Systems 
Division.] Interdivisional correspondence should be addressed to 
Bureau with copies designated for interested officeso 
Receipt of unemployment compensation 
a. At times informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
and become eligible for unemployment compensation. Where un­
employment regulations require- listing of all ~ources of income as 
prerequisite for unemployment compensation and informants and/or 
sources who are being paid by Bureau fail to comply, situation is 
potentially embarrassing. Bureau cannot be placed in position of 
condoning violation of state law on part of any informant or source. 
Field office must determine from state unemployment compensation 
officials effect of unemployment compensation laws on paid informants 
and/or sources. Depending on local requirements, informants and 
sources must be alerted accordingly. 
b. When paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has !i:nowledge 
of impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and submit 
recommendations to Bureau on U.ACB basis. At same time, weigh seriously 
possible need for informant to apply and accept unemploymeni compen­
sation to protect his security. Fellow members of subversive organi­
zation may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect li.im . 
to apply. Where state requires notification of Bureau payments to in­
formants that would necessitate disclosure of identity, discontinue 
Bureau payments during period of_unemployment compensation. ben~f1ts. 
MONTHLY A~l) QUARTERLY LETTERS 
l. Submit monthly letter (FD-451, 451a) to Bureau by secure teletype system 
_{NITEL). Field divisions east of the Mississippi must suhmit this infor­
mation by the 3rd of each month; field divisions west of the Mississippi 
must submit this information by the 7th of each month. !1on·l;hly letter 
should include the following: , 
a. Number of security informants, potential security informants, con­
fidential sources, and panel sources at the beginning and end of each 
month also showing the number added and deleted during the month. 
b. Number of Agents assigned exclusively to informant and source 
development. 
c. Money paid for services and expenses under SAC authority .. 
d. Statistical accomplishments. -
e. Security informant accomplishments. 
17 
7-13-72 
),,W ~321 Docld:32989529 1722 
l 
