( 
( 
J • 
4. 
[ 
5. 
87E 
Communist Party members, review of field·office files, pretext interviews, 
surveillances, ~peu:al Agents attending mass meetings, etc. 
Internal Security Act of 1950 
To insure successful proceedings against a communist front organization 
under this act, a preponderance of admissible evidence must be secured 
to[ show] extent to which 
a. Persons active in management, direction, or supervision of an 
organization are active in managemei:it, direction, or supervision, 
or as representatives, of 
b. Its support, financial or otherwise, is derived from 
c. Its funds, resources, or personnel are used to further or promote 
objectives of 
d~ Positions ta.ken o:r: advanced by it .from time to time do not deviate 
from those of 
4~Y co~.munist-action organization, communist foreign go~ernment, or 
the"world com.~unist movement. 
Panel sourcP.S 
a. Purpose 
To.develop potential witnesses who will be willing to obtain and. 
introduce .legally admissi.ble e-n.dence re subversi-ve nature of 
organizations in future prosecutive action:•.· 
_b. Program • . •. . •.. . . . • .• . 
·( l} Since Special Agent and· active s ecu:ri ty i·nforman·t; testimony is 
undesirable, field should recruit panel of potential witnesses 
locally. Some may be found among American Legion contacts, 
plant informants 7 former and exposed security informants, etc. 
(2} Pinel members should attend public rallies and meetings, as 
well as obtain literature of organizations they are covering. 
(3} To aid panelists, exhibit photographs of iµdividuals they 
will most likely encounter at front organization functions. 
( 4} Handle notes,· statements, .and exhibits of panelists in same 
-manner as other evidence. As panelists may subsequently 
become security informants, the same procedure should be 
followed in handling, processing, and rep·orting .''.:?.ta: and • 
material furnishe~ by panelists as is afforded, ~t received 
from security informants. (See section 107, vo.~.,·.1e IV, of this 
manual.} • 
(5} Legitimate expenses incurred by panel members should be 
reimbursed in same manner as securi l· • informants. 
(6) Eliminate inactive, ineffective, o~ ~nsatisfactory panelists 
·on a continuing basis. At time of submission of semiannual 
letter,.office panel should be reviewed to make certain all 
such panelists·have been removed, 
(7) Identities of panelists s·hould be c.oncealed. 
Cc Administrative handling • 
(1} Check prospective panelists through offide indicesr local 
police department, credit records, and establi,shecl inrormants. 
If no undesirable in~or.nation is developed, initial contact 
may be made with pa~elist jo a~oe~tain cooperativeness. 
(2) Submit names of cooperative panelists to Bureau by letter 
outlining complete background and re~ommendatio~ as to inclusion 
in.office panel. [One of the required copies of the letter to 
the Bureau should consi.st only of the first page of the letter. 
When.approving the field's rec9nunendation, this single-page 
oopy ~ill be stamped "Approved" by Bureau and will be retu~ntd.] 
Be certain such individuals are not plants and wi;tl consider 
relationship with Bureau in confidence. 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 700 
