13-00000 
, ., 
It's the first lie detector that 
can be used on a dead 
man. It works on tapes and 
other voice recordings 
' 
---
by George O'Toole 
The rulers of the state are the only ones who should have the privilege of lying, either 
at home or abroad; they may be allowed to lie for the good of the state. 
-Plato: The Republic, Book Three 
It's a little frightening. The machine can listen to what you're saying and tell, with 
a high degree of reliability. whether or not you are lying. It's called the Psychological 
Stress Evaluator, and it is. in effect. a lie detector. Unlike the polygraph, it needs 
no physical connection to the subject; therefore it can be used without his knowledge. 
It works from recordings of his voice, so anything on tape. sound track or phonograph 
record is fair game for the machine. It is the first lie detector that can be used on 
a dead man. 
Early this year. one of these instruments came into my hands. I resolved to use 
itto probe one of the darkest mysteries of recent history, the assassination of President 
John F. Kennedy. I set about collecting every recording I could lay my hands on 
of anyone who had any direct knowledge of the affair. Soon I had compiled the tape­
recorded testimony of twenty-two persons-eyewitnesses, Dallas policemen, the 
pathologist who conducted the autopsy, members and staff of the Warren Commission, 
Jim Garrison, Clay Shaw, and even Ear: Warren. • 
I ran the tapes through the PSE systematically, taking each controversial point in 
turn. Did the rifle which belonged to Lee Harvey Os.,.vald kill President Kennedy? 
Was Oswald the killer? Were others involved? What of those mysterious autopsy photo­
graphs which the Warren Commission never saw-do they support the Commission's 
lone-gunman, single-bullet theory? And what about the Warren Commission itself? 
Did its members conspire to cover up the truth? 
Slowly a picture emerged. It is blurred, and it is not the picture I expected. Not 
all the details are there, but I guarantee this: you may believe the lone-gunman theor1 
of the Warren Report. or you may believe the government-conspiracy theory of Mark 
Lane. Jim Garrison and others, but either way you are wrong. 
The PSE is not a crystai ball. It was invented as an interrogation aid, a function 
it performs well. To my knowledge, this was the first instance of its use as a tool 
for historical research. To understand what I did with the PSE, one should know some­
thing about the device itself. 
I first heard of the Psychological Stress Evaluator last year, when I met two of 
its inventors. Alian D. Bell, Jr., and Charles R. McQuiston. Bell and McOuiston, both 
former lieutenant colonels, retired from Army Intelligence several years ago to form • 
a company called Dektor Counterintelligence and Security, Inc. It was a logical second 
career for the two men. Both are experts in the technology of espionage. Either one 
could pick the lock on your front door in less time than it takes you lo find your 
key. Colonel Bell wears a Black Belt in karate, is an accomplished swordsman and 
small-arms expert. and has a dozen inventions to his credit. from anti-bugging devices 
to a miniaturizec..l microdot camera. Colonel McOuiston is one of the foremost polygraph 
experts in th•3 US. a specialist in radio and audio surveillance, and a qualified locksmith. 
