13-00000 
:!!_.:'•:. _ _. ,"!"' 
'. 
-
···'-•:.'·· 
lowed the articles that he has written about this matter and t;hey are what I • 
would call "journ.allstic garbage.·• There ls not a scintllla of truth to most 
of the things be has written 111 these articles and ln .his book which I have had 
a chance to scan but haven't actually reviewed yet. It ls being reviewed· by 
my research section. Some of the allegations are utterly fantastic. I often 
wonder where some of these lndlvlduals get such ideas and why they make 
such statements without foundation. 
Now he makes many wlld charges there, and to read lt, a. person not know­
ing h~, or his views, or his background, would be Inclined to wonder .. I think 
you are going to have that problem, as I say, for years to come. I don't know 
how you can handle individuals like hlni. other than to have the record _ clear 
upon tbe fa,cts of the case, and either substantiate or dlspro~e his statements. 
I don't think too much time should be given W these individuals who have 
such unsavory backgrounds as Buchanan has and who makes statements that 
have been proved to be untrue. But, at the ea.me time I think when a book 
like that comes out or an article of that type comes out that deals with the 
,u3sasslnatlon of the late President, I think it sho'llld be gone into from an f,n­
vestlgative point of view. We should then submit to this Commission, even 
after it- has concluded its hearings, 41-,r record purposes, what we have found 
in each particular instance. 
Representative Booos. Now, on the other side of the feli~ 
Mr. DULLEs. May I-add one other thing just'to interrupt. I wish you would 
add to your llst a book called "The Red Roses of Dallas" by a man named Gun. 
He is a more reliable correspondent. 
Mr. HooVEB. He i.s ·a Phlladelphia correspondent. 
Mr. DULLEs. He has bee1i'-livlng in this country since 1946. I have met him 
over here. Let's see, he was at Dallas at the tl:ine. He was then reporting, I 
think. for the Italian newspaper Epoca. 
Mr. Boom. That ls not the same one. 
Mr. DULLES. He might have been lying. This book is full of lles. But I 
think it ls a book that ought to be added, too, and I will see that a copy ls sent 
to the Bureat,.. 
Mr. HooVEB. I would appreciate. that. 
Representative Booos. On the· other side of the spectrum some professor out 
at the University of Illlnols wrote a piece in which he alleged the President 
was. a: Communist agent, President Kennedy, and Buchanan's allegations are 
that the extreme right assassinated the President and this fellow's allegations 
are that the Communists as~ssinated the President. Would· you care to com­
ment? Have you read that piece? 
Mr. HooVEB.· I have read that piece. My comment on it ls. this ln general:_ 
I. think the extreme right ls Just as much a danger to the freedoD1 of this 
country as the extl'.eme left. There are groups, organiz~tions, and individuals 
on the extreme right who make these very violent statements, allegations that 
General Eisenhower was a Communls~ disparaging references to the Chief 
Justice and at the other end of the spectrum you have these leftists who make 
wild statements _ charging almost • anybody with being a Fascist or belonging_ 
to some of these so-called extreme right societies. Now, I have felt, a,nd I have 
said publicly in speeches, that they are just as much a danger, at either end 
of the spectrum. They don't deal with facts. Anybody • who wlll allege that 
General Eisenhower was a Communist agent, has something. wrong with him. 
A lot of people read such allegations because I get some of the weirdest letters • 
wanting to know whether we have inquired to find out whether that ls true. I 
have known General Eisenhower quite well myself and I have found him to be 
a sound, level-headed man. • 
In New York City there ls a woman by the name of Kram• wbo must be 
mentally deranged as sbe st.ands on a Broadway corner there handing out 
leaflets in which she charges ·me wltl. being lu the conspiracy with the Com­
munists to overthrow this Governmeat and so forth. 
Well now, if any person has fought communism, I certainly have foughj; 
it. We bave tried to fl.gbt it and expose lt ln democratic ways I think that lsj 
the thing we have to very definitely keep ln mind in tbls whole problem in tl!,_e\ 
101 
