13-00000 
.. . 
-
Mr. BELMONT. I have covered that in some considerable detail, Mr .. McCloy, 
and I will make a positive statement that Oswald was not, never was, an agent 
or an Informant of the FBI. 
Mr. McCLOY. In the course of your investigation do you have any reason to 
make you believe that he was an agent of any other country? 
Mr. BELMONT. No, sir; we have no reason to believe that he was an agent of 
any other country. 
Mr. McCLOY. Or any other agency of the United States? 
Mr. BELMONT. Or any other agency of the United States. 
Mr. McCtoY. You said this morning, I believe, or at least I guess Mr. Hoscy 
said, that the assassination of the President and any leads in connection with 
it are still of constant concern to the FBI. 
Do you feei there are any areas as of the present time that you feel at the 
present time require or justify further Investigation other than routine check­
ups that have·not already been undertaken? 
Mr. BELMONT. No, sir; frankly, I don't. I will say that from the requests we 
have received from the Commission, you have explored this most thoro:ughly. 
We do not have any unexplored areas In this investigation that should be 
explored. There are some pending requests that you have mad.e, and we are 
running them out as rapidly as we can. 
Mr .. McCLOY. Maybe this Isn't a fair question to ask you, but, after all, you 
have had a long record of crimlnat investigation, and you have had a·-long 
exposure to Investigation In this case. 
As a result of your Investigation do you feel that there ls any credible evlden<!e 
thus far which would su(iport a conclusion or an opinion that the death of the 
President was the result of a conspiracy or anything other than the act of a 
single individual? _ 
Mr. BELMONT. No, sir; we have no evidence, and I could support no conclu­
sion that this was other than an act of Oswald. 
Mr. McCi.oY. Now, the Investigation does lead you to the conclusion that he 
was· the President's assassin? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes, sir. 
Mr. McCLOY. Did you ever at any time have any connection whatever-you or 
the agency.,....have anything to do with the Walker, General Walker, case? 
Mr. BELMONT No, sir; that was a • matter handled by the Dallas police. I 
am drawing on my recollection of It now, but, as I recall It, after-the incident, 
we offered to examine the bullets that were recovered--
Mr. McCLOY. Bullets. 
Mr. BELMONT. And the police apparently wanted to retain them, so that we 
did not conduct the examination of the bullets until subsequent· to the assassina­
tion Itself. 
Mr. MCCLOY. Until recently. 
Mr. BELMONT. No; we had no connection with It, with that investigation. 
Mr. McCLOY. In your investigation of the President's· assassination, did you 
have <><icaslon, after the event, to make an investigation of Rubyi's background 
or Ruhr's relationship to Oswald? 
Mr. };JELMONT. Yes, sir; we went into that very thoroughly. 
Mr. M:cCLOY. Have we got all your reports on that? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes, sir. 
Mr. McCLOY. Have you come to any conclusions or opinions in regard to 
Ruby and his connection with Oswald, if any? 
Mr. ·BELMONT. The reports, of course, speak for themselves. But in summa­
tion, we did not come up with anything of a solid nature, that ls anything that 
would stand up to Indicate that there was any association between Ruby and 
Oswald. We had numerous allegations which we ran out extensively and care­
fully, but there is nothing,_ no Information, that would stand up to show there 
was an association between them. 
Mr. McCLOY. Maybe this is in the record, but do _you-by reason of your very 
close association with this investigation, I venture to ask this questlon---do 
you, from your knowledge of the investigation find-was there any evidence 1n 
27 
