____., 
Review of Manuel Ray Files 
Volume v of xviii 
Page 2 
Memorandum for the Record 
Date: 5 Mazy' 1961 
SECRET Betsy pa.JJner 
subject: Manolo Ray - Comments on his Anti-Castro Activities 
Signed: Calvin Hicks i-m./4/PM/Operations 
11
Ray is balieved to have accomplished pratically nothing towards the eftort 
to overthow Castro. Instead, it seems that whenever we played with his 1 so­
called assets, we were burned. He is notorious for claiming assets or 
operations, several days after some other group had already set them up or 
cl.a.imed. them. Whenever it came to producing and bacldng up his claims, he 
always came up with excuses for not producing, rather than results. He has 
always tended to try to take over other goups, rather than cooperate with 
them, and 'When he couldn't take them over he would 
11
politic
11 
against them. 
His actions all seemed to be direceed toward ma.king him the future powr 
in CUba rather than toward overthrowing Castro. It is believed that Manolo 
RAY is so far "left" in bis thinking that he would be as dangerous (or more 
so in the long run) to United States interests as Castro, if he ever got to 
be the power in CUba." 
Memorandum for the Record 
SUbject: ¢;#l/4 /~ Relations with Manolo Ray and the MRP 
Date: 2 JUne 1961 OJ 
Signed:([James A~· Noei"J J 
In a 12 May 1961 meeting, Ray promises to write a prospectus of his plans 
for MRP within ten days. Not received by 2 June, but Ernesto Betancourt ... 
O')_is asking for financial support for MRP activities. Tracy Ba.mes agrees 
-'with@oer:)that no money should be given Ray until his plans a.re studies. 
Ray is askil!§ for support separate from FRD since Ray has withdrawn from 
this group.'-'""1_Noe:Q further states in Memo, "·--I would like to pmint out the 
security risks inherent in a:ny arra.ngem.ent11 withRYA-BENTANCOURT-CISNEROS 
trio. These fellows have had easy access to the '.ihite House and to the 
Department, are notorious for their 'planned lea.ks', will probably presUllle 
all the Department officials they deal with are privy to the arrangement, and 
before we know it the whole exile conmn1ni ty will be well aware tb.at we a.re 
providing financial and ~terial support to the RAY group." 
'f"' 8. Cable to Bell from 'Cru:acas . 
Date .rune 8, 1961 • ' 
On June 2, Venezuelas governemnt refused to issue a visa to ~.a.nolo Ray. 
9. Cable to Director f'rom ~Cro-aca'.s, .. dated June 28, 1.961. re: meeting with 
Jose R. Barbeito on 20 June in vaiencia. Barbeito claims was member of 
MRP of Manolo Ray and took pa.rt clandestine activities Havana. Admitted 
was communist "many years ago" but now completely opposed to Castro and 
Cnmmnn:Ssm. 
SECRET 
