) 
) 
,·· :::-. 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBV~&E 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS 
87A 
5. Predication for investigation 
[In all cases handled under the prov1s1ons of this section, the first 
communication prepared for outside dissemination (report or LHM) should 
show specifically the statute upon ,-Jhich the investigation is based 
togethe1· with necessary supporting facts. Where investigation has been 
specifically requested by Department, this should be indicated. The 
following examples are illustrative; however, the basis for each 
individual case must be tailored to the circumstances of such case. 
a. "This investigation is based on information that :the subject's 
activities could involve violation of T 18, USC,§ 2383 (Rebellion 
or Insurrection), and§ 2384 (Seditious Conspiracy). A source whose 
reliabiiity has not been determined has informed that the subject 
is planning, along vii th others, to travel to Washington, D. C. , 
on April 30, 1971, to participate in planned vio~ent demonstrations 
during the first week in May, 1971, to 'shut down the Government.' 
Demonstration plans include the blocking of streets and highways, 
destruction of personal and Government property, and physical 
obstruction to prevent Government employees from reporting to work. 11 
b. nThis investigation is based on information that the subject I s , 
activities could involve a violation of T 18, USC,§ 2385 (Advocating 
the overthrow of the Government). The subject is an admitted member 
(or has been identified as a member by a confidential source who 
has provided reliable information in the past) of (name of group). 
The (name of group) in its public statements and publications 
advocates the desirability and necessity of overthrowing the U. s .. 
Gove!"nment by force or violence, and the assassination of u. S. 
Government officers. The same source has reported that the subject 
actively supports these positions.n 
Where possible, the first intra-Bureau communication prepared which 
in~icates that investigation is being initiated (intraoffice 
memorandum., letter, airtel, teletype, etc.) should specifically 
indicate the statutory basis for the investigation. However, there 
may be occasions involving individuals or groups in cori.tact with known 
subversive elements where the purpose of the contact is not initially 
knm·m and where a preliminary inquiry must be made to determine 
whether a statutory basis exists for full investigation. In these 
instances, a preliminary inquiry may be undertaken, through estab-
lished sources, for a period not to exceed 90 days, without specifically 
indicating the specific statutory basis for the inquiry. If after the 
conclusion of 90 days it has not been possible to establish a 
statutory basis but further inquiry appears necessary, FBIHQ must 
be furnished a succinct summary of the facts by letter together with 
specific recommendations as to further action. In all cases, of 
course, investigations must be based on indications that subject 
may be engaged in subversive activity, whether OE not a specific 
statutory basis is citedo 
Iri the event preliminary inquiries fail to establish a sound basis 
for investigation, the case should be promptly closed and there is 
no need to advise FBIHQ (unless FBIHQ has been previously advised 
of tlie inquiry). Nor is there any need to prepare an LHM or report 
where no pertinent subversivecderogatory information has been developedo 
If the statutory basis for an investigation should change or be 
expanded to include an additional statute or statutes, the first 
communication prepared subsequent to such change or expansion should 
specifically show such changes. Similarly, this information should 
be included in the next report or LHM prepared in the case.] 
5 
9-13-73 
NW 38321 .Docld:32989529 Page 1346 
