SECRET 
In addition to the regularly scheduled inter~ 
national service, Radio Havana has been known to • 
broadcast special programs 1.n order to take advan­
tage of unique political situations. When serious 
disorders broke out in the Dominican Republic in 
late 1961, for example, broadcasts emanating from::.a· 
self-styled "clandestine" station which said it was 
located inside the Dominican Republic demanded the 
overthrow of the Dominican government. The station 
went off after about a week, but not before direc­
tion finder bearings and other technical clues in­
dicated that it had been transmitting from Radio 
Havana's transmitting facilities in Cuba. 
Radio Havana states that it makes its facilities 
available to political groups from other Latin Ameri­
can countries so they can beam programs to their home­
lands. These programs, which have t_he evident intent 
of encouraging subversion and inciting revolt, are 
presently beamed on regular weekly or twice a week 
schedule to Guatemala, Peru, and the Dominican Re­
public. Similar programs were beamed to Nicaragua 
and Honduras until last September when they were 
replaced by a single program with wider targets now 
programmed nightly. These special programs are ex­
emplified by the programs transmitted to the Domini­
can Republic on 28 January. One was a "manifesto" 
by Dominican Communists (who are based in Cuba) on 
the recent election of the "demagogic imperialist . 
agent" Juan Bosch as President of the Dominican Re­
public. Another was allegedly by a pro-Communist· 
group of Dominicans in Cuba called the "National 
Liberation Movement." It appealed to Dominican 
university students to demonstrate against the Con­
stituent Assembly meeting in Santo Domingo. 
There are also two special programs beamed to 
the United States. "Radio Free Dixie" is a one 
hour a week transmission in English aimed at US 
Negroes; The other program, "The Friendly Voice 
of Cuba," is somewhat more subtle and aimed at a 
wider audience. Both programs can.be heard well in 
Florida and also in many parts of southern United 
States. 
The technical facilities of Radio Havana are 
at a transmitter site at Bauta, some 23 miles 
-12-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 18 
