13-00000 
-,;atty ,0/3,/1::, 
: :: r:y ,,f¥.uµ~rt'"' ·'··'-'·--'·''·•' '··' ,, .. l' l 'I.._) 
fLILL 28 October 1997 
SUBJECT: Disclosure of Information on Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko 
~~ 
1. The Board intends to d~sify and release for public 
consumption, approximately 2400 pages of counterintelligence 
staff studies, interrogation reports, file r~views, and bona 
fides studies on Yuriy Ivanovich Nosenko. These studies contain 
sensitive personal and operational material completely unrelated 
and irrelevant to Lee Harvey Oswald and the assassination of 
President Kennedy. It has been officially sta._ted and documented 
that the remaining Nosenko records have been carefully reviewed 
to confirm that they contain no material helpful to a deeper 
understanding of the assassination. Mr. Nosenko has adhered time 
and time again to the stipulations of his Memorandum of 
Understanding not to divulge his relationship with this Agency, 
even in view of the less than satisfactory conditions this Agency 
forced upon him during his early resettlement. Public disclosure 
of the remaining documents would constitute an. unwarranted 
invasion of his personal and professio~al privacy not to mention 
the breech of trust on the part of this Agency to protect his 
right of privacy and·above all, his security. This trust was 
reconfirmed in a personal letter from the former DDO, Ted Price, 
in September 1994, stating that we would take special steps to 
protect any sensi1:ive information touching on Mr. Nosenko's 
private life or on operational information pertaining to his 
debriefings. The letter further states that this Agency valued 
the sacrifices he made for our country, and every effort would be 
made to protect information that could affect his privacy and 
security. The question has been asked before. Should we not 
show the same integrity that we expect from those who put their 
lives on the line in defense of our national interests? 
2. Furthermore, the recruitment of sources of high 
intelligence value has always been this Agency's top priority. 
Public disclosure of this information could do irreparable damage 
to our ability to attract individuals who admire the US arid might 
be disposed to collaboration. Disclosure of cooperation with the 
USG would cause any potential source to think twice before 
placing his life in the hands of an organization who cannot 
protect his information. For those· individuals such as Mr. 
Nosenko, who placed their trust in this .country in ~he past, 
entered our resettlement program, and are now US citizens, the 
indiscriminate release of information, some of it very personal 
CL BY fo489514 _J 
REASON 1. 5 (C) 
DECL Xl 
DRV DEF 2-82 
