r 
NW 
. " 
• 
Legal Counsel to Mr. J. B. Adams 
RE: SENSTUDY 75 
• 
the Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to 
Intelligence Activities. At the same time, former SA Sentinella was furnished 
forms which Seidel requested he fill out at that time. Seidel also made 
reference to Sentinella 's Fifth Amendment rights but did not specify or spell 
out his rights. 
It was brought to Mr. Seidel 's attention by SA Daly that the Rules 
adopted by the Senate Select Committee called for a witness to be given copies 
of the Rules 24 houFs prior to his appearance before the Committee and that 
these Rules are important for a potential witness to have knowledge of prior to 
his being interviewed since they contain a list of rights and privileges which a 
witness is entitled to. It was also brought to Mr. Seidel 's attention that despite 
the fact that the interview was to be initiated at 10 a. m. (initially the interview 
was scheduled for 9:30 a. m., however, upon arrival former SA Sentinella was 
advised it would not be held until 10 a. m. ) with Mr. Sentinella being required 
to fill out forms, he would havE? very little opportunity to review and digest the 
Rules of the Committee. 
Mr. Seidel was also advised of the restrictions placed on the 
area which former SA Sentinella could respond to by the Department of Justice. 
Mr. Seidel specifically requested that he be allowed to ask questions concerning 
"COINTELPRO~' He was advised that this was not within the scope of the 
Department's release for Sentinella unless such information may have been 
related to the investigations of Martin Luther King, Stanley David Levinson, or 
SCLC. 
SA Daly also explained to John Elliff, Task Force Head for the 
Committee on Domestic Intelligence Matters, the circumstances surrounding 
the failure to provide a copy of the Rules 24 .hours prior to interview and of the 
lack of specificity of Mr. Seidel as to areas1-fwhich Mr. Sentinella would be 
interviewec;l .-: •: . Mr. Elliff apologized for the oversight of the Committee 
in complying with its Rules and assured SA Daly this would not happen again. 
In addition, he was advised that the Rules of the Committee provide that witnesses 
would have a reasonable opportunity to inspect and correct their testimony, 
however, the Rules provide that a witness must inspect his testimony in the 
office of the Committee. It was pointed out to Mr. Elliff that such procedures 
were unreasonable in that in Mr. Sentinella's instance, he would have to travel 
from Atlanta to Washington, D. C., to review the transcript of his testimony at 
his own expense. Mr. Elliff indicated that he be,lieved other arrangements 
concerning this particular aspect of the Rules could and would be worked out. 
- 2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
71 
