' . , 
( 
( 
( 
NW 88321 
[ 
[ 
[ 
SECTION 87. SECURITY IlTVESTIGATIONS 87H - '.t 
(4) Office preparing summary report may include information 
originally obtained by another office but may not have 
necessary documentation. If office preparing report has 
copies of documents obtained by another office ·and identity 
of source, date of activity, date received, and-receiving 
Agent ar·e known, it is not necessary to obtain file number of 
original. Pertinent documentation, other than.file number,. 
should be obtained from auxiliary office. 
(5) When report includes references to known subversives who have 
.associated with subject, identify source of characterization 
in cover pages without further documentation. 
(6) When it is necessary to obtain thumbnail sketch, place in 
thumbnail sketch file so it will be readily available for 
future use. 
10. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of 
Channelizing memoranda [must ]be de strayed following submission of 
reports[or following submission of letterhead memoranda {LHM), or 
when information is of no value to report or LHM.] Copies of informant's 
statements designated for 100 classification files of informants may be· 
destroyed when one year old. (See instructions for destruction of 
channelizing memoranda in MRR, part II, section 3D, item 8.} 
I. DISSEMil-TATION OF DATA DEVELOPED IN SECURITY INYESTIGATI01IS 
1. ·Policy 
Proper utilization of information received is foremost among Bureau's 
responsibilities. Information obtained ·during investigations should 
be forwarded to other interested agencies in executive branch unless 
there are compelling reasons not to do so. Delimitations Agreement 
and Presidential directives provide for dissemination to other agencies 
which have present or potential interest information relating to espionage, 
sabotage, subversive activities, and related matters. 
2. Bureau requirements 
. Because all conceivable situations cannot be anticipated, data below 
pertains to representative situations which occur frequently. Basi"c 
rule is that security information must be furnished promptly to inter­
ested agencies in executive branch, Term "interested agency 11 must be 
interpreted in light of reason and common sense. Bring any unusua_l 
situations to Bureau's a.ttention promptly for consideration. 
Considerations affecting national defense in Alaska, Hawa~i, and Puerto 
Rico necessitate broadest possible construction to requirements for 
dissemination to intelligence services in those areas. See Y~nual of 
Ruies and· Regulations, part II, section 5, pertaining to Bureau's 
overall respo~sibilities, policies, and exceptions in dissemination. 
a. Members of armed forces 
Delimitations Agreement between FBI ~nd armed forces intelligence 
agencies {see section 102B, volume IV, of this manual) requires 
each agency to exchange freely and directly with other subscribing 
agencies all information of mutual interest. Any information 
developed concerning members of military services must be referred 
immediately to appropriate military branch having primary respon­
sibility, even though allegations have not been fully resolved or 
verified. Specifically point out in such instances that infor­
mation has not been verified. When it is determined security 
subject is member of armed services, discontinue investigation 
iw..:nediately, advise Bureau, and disseminate pertinent reports 
locally to appropriate intelligence agency. Dissemination regarding· 
military personnel is n-ot confined to subjects of security investi­
ga:tions but extends to any subversive data developed against member 
of armed services during FBI investigations. If member of armed 
forces has been in contact with security subject or any individual 
or group with security implications, immediately advise appropriate 
local intelligence service, even though security aspects of contact 
have not been resolved. Point out in such instances that infor­
rr.:.i.tion is unverified and transmit any additiono.l developments im­
mediately. 
1952 51 
11-15-71 
1 
} 
! 1 j 
j 
• I 
I 
i 
