13-00000 
16. Honors a~lf ;J.ards: List all scholarships, fellowships, honorary degrees, honorary society 
memberships, military medals and any otherspecial recognitions foroutstandi,ngservice, 
or achievements. 
National Association of Attorneys General, Marvin Award·(1991) 
(Awarded annually to up to 5 outstanding assistant attorneys general in U.S.) 
National Association of Attorneys General, President's Distinguished Service Award (1988) 
Mondale Fellow, University of Minnesota, Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs, 
Minneapolis (1992-1993) 
Rollof Award, University of Minnesota Law School (1980) 
Awarded to President/Editor-in-Chief of the Minnesota Law Review 
. ··.~ . 
Minnesota Journal of Law & Politics, Selected as "Rising StarLawycr,"·(1993) 
17. Published writings: List the titles, publishers, and dates or book$, articles, reports, or 
other published materials which you have written. It would be helpful (or the Committee 
to have three copies of each published writing. Please denote any of those for which you 
are unable to provide copies. , 
Book: 
Article: 
Chapter: 
Article: 
Op. Ed.: 
A Scandinavian Saga (Lakes Publishing, 1984) 
Parental Involvement' in Minor's Abortio'ns: The Afte~~J~ of Hodgson v. 
Minnesota and Ohio v. Akron-Center for Reproductive Health, Abonion and The 
States, Political Change and Future Regulation, Jane B. :Wishlier, Editor 
(American Bar Association, Section of Urban, State and Local Government Law) 
(1993) 
State Legislative Activities, State Attorneys General, Powers and Responsibilities,, 
• • • I 
Lynn Ross, Editor (BNA: Washington, D.C. 1990). • I also served as an editor on 
this book. 
Minnesota's Bill ofRights (William Mitchell Law Review) 
(In progress, no copy available, schrduledfor publication in 1994) 
Americans Should Lend Russia a Hand or, Democratic Journey, St. Paul Pioneer 
Press (January 8, 1992) 
18. Speeches: Provide the Committee with three copies of any formal speeches you have 
delivered during the last 5 years of which you have copies and are on topics relevant to the 
. position for which y~u have been nominated. 
None. 
John R. Tunheim Novembcr4, 1993 
, , 
., .. 
