( 
SEC'rION 107 •• ECURITY INFORM.ANTS .A.ND CONFIDI-Ll1.L SOURCES 
d. All such material should be transmitted in the same manner as 
statements furnished by informant. 
107G -. R 
e. Receipt of such material should be recorded on form FD-306 or on a 
channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items set forth 
on form l!'D-306. See section 10711 for filing ins.t:r·uc·!;ions. 
H. P.ASSDTG INFORt1J_TION IN DOUBLE .AGENT OPERATIONS 
1, Carefully handle and create b2.sis· for acquisition 
a. In double agent operations information requested by the principals 
is frequently passed either to build up a double agen·t;rs s·l;2.ture· 
or as evidence of espionage activity. 
b, Each case must be carefully evaluated to make certain that a net 
gain accrues to the u. s. 
c, The information which is passed should be carefully handled and 
appropriate expla·nations created for its acquisition by ·!;he double 
agent to avoid his compromise, 
2, Locating information to pass 
Wherever possible the field office handling the double agent should 
locate appropria·l;e information to be passed; however, the Bureau can 
assist in fulfilling requests for information in possession of -
Government agencies, 
3, Obtaining Bureau authority 
Bureau authority must be obtained ·bo pass any information in a double 
agent operation except: 
a, Newspaper articles 
b. Magazine articles 
c. Pamphlets, brochures, etc., prepared by a private company or corporation 
for distribution or sale to the public. (This does not include highly 
technical pamphlets, even if unclassified, which are prepared :for 
limited use by engineering staffs and not intended for release to the 
public,) 
4. Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be re·bained by the office of origin of any documents 
or material related to the national defense which is passed in double 
agent operations. 
b. Su_ch material should be appropriately identified by the double agent. 
c. Bureau Agents should not place identifying data on such material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in connection with the passage 
of such material. 
d, Similar action should be taken with regard to any material which is 
passed which is considered evidentiary although not-clearly related 
to the national defense, • .~ • 
e. It is not necessary to retain copies of bu-j,ldup material ·obviously 
not evidentiary in nature where there is assurance that copies can 
be obtained at a later date from the Government agency or private 
concern having custody. 
13 
7-14-64 
f NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1579 
