[107K SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS[.AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] 
-• 4. [Currency ahd security] 
• All indices shall be maintained in a current status at all times in 
a manner which provides tight security of the information· and yet makes 
it easily available to Agents having a need thereof. 
L. INDEX CARDS 
[ 
( 
( 
[ 
1. Index cards (3 by 5 inches) for the alphabetical name index shall be 
prepared as follows: 
Name: 
(Informant, potential 
informant, or confidential 
source) 
Residence: 
Telephone Number: 
Business: 
Telephone Number: 
Type of Information:· 
Contacting Agent: 
Alternate Agent: 
Symbol No: 
File No: 
2. Index cards (3 by 5 inches) for the symbol number index shall be pre­
pared ~s follows: 
Symbol: 
(Informant, potential 
informant, or confidential 
source) 
Name: 
File No:· 
3. Contacts with informants should not be posted on index cards since 
this information is[shown]in the informant 1 s administrative file. 
INFORM.ANT FILES 
1. [ Op eningJ 
a. When a◊tive investigation is initiated relati-v-e to an individual who 
has po·l;ential as an informant or confidential source and he is not 
the subject of a security-type file, a 134 classification file should 
be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts to develop 
the subject are discontinued. 
b. If an individual is the subject of a security case and after being in­
terviewed with Bureau authority he indicates he is cooperative and has 
potentiality as an informant, a 134 file should be opened and maintained 
in a pending status while under development as a potential. informant. 
[In espionage and foreign nationality matters the existin1 file may 
be used rather than opening a new 134 file if this is practical and 
will reduce paper work.] 
c. Individual files on all active informants should be maintained and 
carried as ~ending active files. 
2. [Monthly administrative report] 
Files on potential informan·ts and informants shall be included in the 
tabulations and calculations of delinquencies in the monthly adminis­
trative report. 
3~ [Assignment and tickler cards] 
a. Assignment and tickler cards should be maintained, 
b. The true name of informant is not to appear on the assignment and 
tickler cards. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1798 
) 
,, 
' 
) 
