f107L 
6. 
7. 
[ 
[ 
~ .~~ 
SECTION 107. [INTA]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONF • ..JNTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce receipts in evidence, 
they will not relate to other documents or files. 
b. Receipts should clearly show: 
!
ll Date on which payment was made 
2 Period for which made when informant is paid on period basis 
3 Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for services 
or expenses where pertinent 
{4) Name of Agent making payment 
{5) Signature of perso,n receiving money 
c. Receipts are not to be witnessed by another Agent. 
d. If necessary to make corrections on receipts, they must be initialed 
by informant and not by Agent. 
e. When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to 
Bureau, staple them directly to blue slip, leaving margin o·f one 
to one and one-half inches at top to avoid contact with Acco fastener 
punch. Place staples so that date or other data appea·ring on 
receipt will not be mutilated and all information on receipt can be 
easily read without detaching it from blue slip. 
Income tax returns 
a. Advise informants who receive compensation for their services to 
the Bureau that such compensation must be reported as income when 
filing a Federal income tax form, and, where appropriate, state and 
local tax forms. Informants must be periodically advised of the 
above and complete details of any reported problem an informant 
has encountered with the taxing authorities are to be expeditiously 
furnished the Bureau. 
b. Bureau income should be set forth on Federal income tax return, form 
1040, as income received from other sources for personal services 
rendered through a private enterprise or similar-general term applicable 
to informant's position and station in life. 
c. If informant is self-employed and files schedule C as self-employed 
individual, it may be possible to include his Bureau income with his 
self-employed income from other sources without revealing connection 
with Bureau. 
d. If informant cannot report payments received from Bureau for services 
without jeopardizing his security as informant, such payments will be 
subject to 20 per cent withholding tax. There are four categories of 
circumstances in which taxes will not be withheld. Taxes are not 
to be withheld from payments made {1) to other than security in­
formants and sources, {2) for reimbursement of expenses, (3) under 
SAC authority, or (4) to informants who have been able to report 
Bureau income on their Federal tax returns without jeopardizing their 
security or without challenge from Internal Revenue Service. Each 
office has detailed instruction1s and exhibits concerning procedure to 
be followed in handling and control of money withheld. 
e. When informant or former informant is initially considered as potential 
witness in Bureau case, determine whether he paid Federal and state 
taxes on income he received from Bureau for his services. If such 
taxes have not been paid, obtain all·per~inent details and promptly 
submit recommendations for handling situation. 
Stipulation re payments made to witnesses 
a. In trials in which informants, former info'rmants, or other persons 
who were paid sums of money are prospective witnesses, Bureau must 
furnish Department set of[reproduced copies]of original receipts 
signed by prospective witnesses. Original receipts and set of 
[reproduced copies]will be transmitted to field office in whose 
territory trial will take place. Office handl~ng prosecution must 
determine from Government attorney which individuals are to be used 
as witnesses. Thereafter office should furnish and/or cause other 
appropriate offices to furnish to Bureau following information: 
16 
10-15-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1161 
. , 
) 
