SEtrm:T 
• EYES c;·;L Y 
the periods,-9 actober, 27 October-l~December 1971 
and on 3 January 1972 .. In addition to physical sur­
veillance, an observation post was maintained in the 
Statler Hilton Hotel wher~ observation could be main­
tained of the building housing his office. The sur­
veillance was designed to determine Wenl80 sources 
of classified information of interest to ·the Agency 
which had appeared in a number of his columns. 
D. .MUDHEN 
At the direction of the DCI, surveillance was con­
ducted of Jack Anderson and at various times his "leg 
men;'' Britt Hume, Leslie Whitten, and _Joseph Spear, 
from 15 February to 12 ARril 1972. In addition to the 
physical surveillance, an observation post was main­
tained in the Statler Hilton Hotel directly opposite 
Anderson's office. The purpose of this surveillance 
was to attempt to determine Anderson's sources for 
hi~hly classified Agency information appearing in his 
syndicated columns. 
E . ~U+AN E-
At the direction of the DCI, a surveillance was 
conducted on Victor L. Marchetti from 23 March to 
20 April 1972. The purpose of this sur~eillance was 
to determine his activities and contacts both with 
Agency employees and other individuals in regard to 
his proposed book and published magazine articies ex­
posing Agency operations. 
II. POLICE SUPPORT 
'-· 
A. During 1969, 1970, and 1971, on several occasions, 
the Intelligence Division of the Metropo-l-i~ Police 
Department was provided a communications system to 
monitor major anti-Vietnam war demonstrations in the 
Wa-s-h-iilgto~ area. This system consisted of a radio 
receiver-and an Agent at the Intelligence Di_ytsion 
Headquarters and several automobiles from an Agency 
Field Office equipped with' rqdio receivers and trans­
mitters and manned by two Ae:ency employees, as well as~ a 
representative of the Intelligence Division, Me-t~­
Police Department. The benefit to the Agency was that 
the communications over this system were monitored at 
the Headquarters Building to provide instant notice of 
possible actions by the dissidents against Agency in­
stallations. 
2 ... 
', NW 38296 Docld:32989£24 20 
SECRET EYES c:·:L Y 
