NW 50955 
Only a Ho-Hum Murder 
r.orner greasy spoon can engage In 
By RusselL:Baker "home-style cooking." 
The one special requiremertt Is a 
The gangsters Sam.".:Giancana an<l victim who is a bona fide citizen of • 
John Roselli who were a.ssociated with gangland. Obviously, a. p)l!landering 
the C.I.A. in a. schem'e to dispatch husband cannot do in a loyal wife ot . 
• Fidel Castro have now both been mur• 40 yea.rs "gangland-style" and expect 
dered after discussing 'their CJ.A~ en• the police not to lift an eyebrow. Un• 
terprise with the United States Senate, less the subject is the real ganglam 
and the police have pronounced the thing,. :it won't .work. . . • 
inciderrts "gangland-style killings." The corollary of • this fact·. a that 
The phrase "gangland-style · killing" gangland people are peculiarly wlner• 
has the cozy resonance of "home-style ab!~ to "gangland-style.. murder by. 
cooking," perhaps because both sug- devious non-gang!anders, who have no 
,est the Intimacy of hearth and fire : fight to get a.way with it. • 
with nobody but us family gathered Th!s mu.st be Jnfuriati.ng to them. 
round and nobody else welcome, Jack. Imagine that you are an · .eminent .. 
These family affairs are, . !'.'If course, s~tesma.n of gangl~nd, and the 
1
'vexa­
meddled into by the const11buiary, but t~on becomes marufest. You •f!' en• 
rarely with much enthusiasm. tirely prepared to be sent off . gang• 
This may be because police success land-style" by your colleagues. Th~ 
at nabbing perpetrators of "gattgland· a.re the rules of the land. • • • 
style killings" has never been such u Moreover, if they complete the job, 
to get them into the world series of you. wouldn't dream of telling the .po-: 
detection, with the result that inces-- liee who did it, even if you could. That.· 
sant failure may have . dulled. 1:heir would violate the rules of the sports• 
appetite for. the· hunt. , manship governing gangland. In ga.na•. 
Or, it may be because policemen -land, good· sports don't tell. • 
believe the subjects of "gangland-style But to have some alien from • tha 
killings" aren't worth wor~ing over• outer world---some straight-Jake cous­
time for. I don'.t know,· artd I certainly in who. wants his. share of your. will 
don't mean to impute either fanguor, 
timidity or indifference to j\merica's OBSERVER· . homicide squads. I simply point out 
that once a murder has been called 
"gangland-style," apprehension of 'the prematurely, some· barber ·who hateii 
perpetrator almost invariably· fails to your sidebums---to have somebody like 
occur. • • •. • • • ' •. • • this do the job on you and get away 
This raises the question· whether with it because it's done "gangland• , 
"gangland-style" murders might pos• • style"--Ah, my friend; that must seem 
sibly be catching among people who a, cruel injustice. 
don't come from gangland. C<?nsider • Such a bad_· egg as. that you· would 
the Roselli case. The body is· found· in surely betray to the cops. How infuri• 
the customary barrel, with .t.lie cus• a.ting it would be if they looked at the 
tomary weights, in the customary barrel, the concrete, the water, the 
water .. • It bears the customary· bullet bullet holes and closed the case with • 
holes. Roselli's publicized standing in a quietly murmured, "Just- another 
gangland seems to leave an open-and• • gangland-style killing." 
shut case, which the police will quietly · • You will have been the victim. not 
shut as soon as possible. . only of murder, but also of discrimina• 
If you and I know this, reader, does . tion, for it is only your membership 
it rrot follow that it is also known by, in gangland that prevents the police . 
let us say, some hot-tempered waiter , from extending themselves·. to bring 
whom Roselli has been,eonslstently . , your persecutor to justice. ' • . 
undertipping for years? . • • I do not know how policemert feel 
If thait waiter wanted to·. take his about nonmembers of gangland killing 
revenge and get away with it, is it gangland· members "gangland-style," 
not logical that he would do it "gang- • but my hunch is• that • they ·taker a 
land-style," so the police could forget sterner view of it than they do of 
it, rather than by scalding Roselli to gangland men bumping off each other. 
death in public with a tureen.of lopster- The average cop _probably thirrks it is 
bisque? • • · • . , not the kind of thing decent people 
This is not to suggest that the police , ought to be doing. • 
ought to be • giving Roselli's waiters • I know very well that gangland folks 
the third degree, but merely-to point. · don't approve of it; and to make sure 
out that gattgland can have no monop• . •that there is no misunderstanding, I 
oly on "gangland-style killing." Any• • want to assure them that I haven't: 
. body with a barrel, some concrete and • • tre heart to swat a fly, myself, and, 
L a capacious expanse ·of. water ·can• :: what's more, I've never-beet? any gQOd 
. engage mjt, just as readily as .yl)ur , with concrete ... • : . . • • • 
. . .. . . . . • '. . . . .. "':'.",. ~·.. . . . . 
. • ,.,!• 
Docld:32423630 pa,ge 460 
>5· / ? 1d 7 l .. 
l~·(()~ 
1~ 
,... 
