• ( 
Mr. Mahon. Would you please p~ovide the Comnittee staff with 
so~e samples of these performance reports, sanitized as you think 
appropriate? 
Mr. Bush. I would be willing to bring some down and discuss them with 
the Committee off the record, Mr. Chairman. But I am reluctant to do _that, 
and I am even more reluctant to provide the documents themselves or to have 
their contents described to the Committee by anyone who is not intimately 
familiar with-espionage, counterintelligence and covert action operations 
and with the· entire management system used by the Ope_rations Directorate. 
There are a number of reasons for my position. One serious concern 
• .... . 
revolves around. the effects on our internal processes of the sort of inquiry 
, : you prop<;>se. One of the primary reasons that our internal management system .. 
is effective is that participation is strictly limited to those immediate,.!y 
concerned. Given that we are all human beings, .there is no escaping the.: 
fact that knowledge that the reports in question are being read, or inay at 
some futur~ time be~, by outsiders wii1· lead to their being ·written 
with a view to their possible impact on an extended readership. There will 
be a tendency for the manaiers in the field to slant their discussions of .. 
-·problems and to exaggerate· accomplishments~ Inevitably, the net effect 
will be_.to reduce the usefulness of the system. 
Another difficulty involves security. To be useful for judging per­
formance, the reports must be very detailed. Thus they discuss· recruitments' 
in terms.-of numbers, the specific·access of agents to information, recruit-
ment techniques, and so forth. By the time all _this sensitive material on 
. sources and methods is removed, ariy samples are going to consist primarily 
. of disconnected bits and pieces or·of·unenlightening generalizations. 
And I have a third problem with this request. The reports themselves 
are but one part of a very complex and thorough process we use for internal 
management. It takes a detailed familiarity with the process to appreciate 
its effectiveness. Thus, I feel strongly that someo~e from the Agen~ who 
has that intimate knowledge should be present if and when you want to .. 
consider the reports. 
