13-00000 
I .. 
/0 
TOP. SECRET 
9. Mr. McCone then turned to a discussion of Cuba and stated that 
he was giving the Special Group this afternoon a study showing the results 
of 51 days' reconnai~sance over Cuba and that this was disturbing when the 
four principal targets were analyzed. There were 59 occasions when 
weather precluded any readout of what was going on in these four Soviet 
military canips. Some of the camps were not seen for five or six days in 
a row and in one instance for as long as 12 successive days. Mr. McCone 
then read from the memorandum on reconnaissance over Cuba dated 23 April 
1963 and said he would provide the Board with a copy. 
The DCI then reported t;hat James Donovan during a nighttime drive 
to Veradero had passed a convoy of 25 very large trucks, the type generally 
carried on railroad flatcars. Mr. McCone stated that an examination of the 
photography for that day and the following day provided absolutely no trace 
of the convoy. Dr. Land stated that the DCI's previous statement may have 
provided the answer as to where this convoy might be. The DCI said he 
planned to recommend low-level flights in order to provide more information. 
10. At this. point Mr. FitzGerald was asked to give his presentation on 
operations in Cuba. He commenced by displaying the chart which indicated 
the number of resident agents, illegal teams, legal teams, shipboard agents 
and penetrations of Cuban installations. He noted that the number of illegal 
teams had risen to three as a result of a successful operation on Sunday, 
and one of these teams had as many as 100 subagents with extensive co\erage 
in the province of Pinar del Rio. Dr. Langer asked what the subagents were 
looking for, and Mr. FitzGerald replied that their coverage was mostly 
military. • Mr. Murphy asked if these agents were all strictly collecting 
intelligence, and Mr. FitzGerald replied that this was their primary purpose 
at the moment, but the illegals could create a resistance net if this was 
desired. He pointed out that the policy at the present. time precluded attempt­
ing to develop a large scale dangerous activity. 
Mr. FitzGerf d pointed out that the penetration of Cuban installations 
were mainly@iploma119installations and that some{i4 Cuban dipl~fuat,!]were 
our agents. Mr. Clifford asked how the information was gotten out of Cuba, 
and Mr. FitzGerald replied that it was mostly by secret writing transmitted 
to[¥exico Citj/by mail and then forwarded to Washington. He said there 
were four radios in Cuba and that we now had a greatly improved medium ZY 
speed transmitter that was quite small, {£he size of about two cigarette carton'fJ 
and it could get a message off in just 60 seconds. He said that there was a 
smaller and better transmitter currently in the process of development. 
·{. 
- 6 -
