13-00000 
PAGE 10 
20/20 (ABC), August 27, 1993 
Dr. JENKINS; She had such a drawn look. I really feel like she was • in shock, and 
she was just holding her hands, one above the other. And one of the times, she 
nudged me with her elbow and handed me something in her hand, which is part of 
his brain that obviously was in her lap- with his head in her lap as the car 
came to Park.land. Bad moment. 
SHERR: Cvoice:..averl · After examining computer animation of the presidential 
limousine and its passengers, Posner sought to shaw where in Dealey Plaza, the 
shots came from. 
Hr. POSNER: Kennedy and Connally are placed into computer animation, and working 
back from their wounds, the computer determines the only possible location for 
the assassin, as indicated by the yellow shading. Notice that Oswald's 
sixth-floor window is right in the center of it. 
Mr. LANE: Posner believes the magic-bullet theory. Next, I guess, we're going ta 
hear about the Tooth Fairy. It's just mathematically impossible. No one has ever 
been able to recreate what it is said that Lee Harvey Oswald did". 
SHERR: Well, they've done it- he's done it now with a computer enhancement­
l'lr. LANE: I know that. 
SHERR: -and he claims the computer sho~s that it's absolutely the way it 
happened. 
Mr. LANE: Well, he's entitled to his computer. The American people were there, 
and they testified, and two-thirds of them said they know shots came from the wooden fence. • 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl What. about that reported fourth shot fired from the grassy 
knoll? When the House.Select Committee on Assassinations concluded in 1978 that 
there was a 95-percent certainty of such a shot, conspiracy theorists were 
heartened, but the committee's finding, according ta Dallas Sheriff Jim Bowles 
tsp?l, was based on a static-filled Dictabelt recording of a Dallas police 
motorcycle radio stuck in the on position. The sheriff says the motorcycle 
wasn't even in Dealey Plaz.a, but the committee heard four shots. We couldn't 
hear any. 
(interviewing] Yau have a copy of that tape, right? 
Sheriff JIM BOWLES, Dallas: I certainly do. 
SHE:RR: Why don't you play it, and let's ta.ke a listen. Is that a shot? 
Sheriff BOWLES: Na, that's the motorcycle slowing dawn, see? 
SHERR: I didn't hear any shots. 
Sheriff BOWLES: Neither has anyone else. They listened to the same belts we 
listened to, and they claimed to hear four shots. 
SHERR: So where do you think the four shots came from on the House Select 
Committee's tape? 
LEXIS~ NEX s·<tP. 
;ervices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
LEXIS• NEXISf)a~ ■ ---­• -­-·--
