P.A.RT II 
SECTION 6. PUBLIC.A.TIONS, ?RESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CONT.A.CTS 
activities or close association with other persons will be involved in 
unfavorable publicity or become the subject of adverse investigative 
activity, or who will capitalize on their friendly association with 
the S.AC. • _ . - • 
4. Except where a suitable file is already i.n existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
5. A three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained: in an S.A.C 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the SAC. Each card is tb 
c ont-ain: 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telephone numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any corilments which .would be helpf.ul in handling the individual 
e. Date of fir-st co.ntact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
(Show in the lowe~ left c9rner on the front of the card.) 
f .. Dates of contacts by the S.A.C (to be entered on the reverse side of 
the card in longhand). Contacts more frequent than quarterly should 
not be listed. 
g. Any necessary_descriptive data 
6. Each contact is to be indexed.in the general indices. The card is to 
show the name of the indi-vidual, date of preparation, and the notation, 
"See SAC. 11 
7. SAC contacts located in headquarters city must be contacted ·at least three 
times each year; those located[in areas regularly covered by road trips 
out of headquarters city or looated]in resident agencies must be contacted. 
at least two times each year. • • 
8. Ad.vise Bureau immediately when a contact is discontinued U.A.CB. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city located. within another 
field division, a copy of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
should be designated for that field division. Also ad.vise field division 
of background information re contact. 
9. Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of S.AC contacts. 
10. Each office must submit. a complete roster of ·sAC contacts to reach the 
Bureau by _the first week of May and November each year. If there are 
any changes in address, employment, or other pertinent data, such informa­
tion should be set forth. If there is no change in status, so state. 
11. From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more "FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us; .Any indication that such 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay, " 
12. Immediately upon assuming the duties of. SAC, such SAC should visit all 
persons listed as S.AC contacts and in addition leading officials located. 
in ~he field division. • • 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 965 
8 
ll-28-60 
I 
'f r 
( 
( 
\ 
