13-00000 
4fU ,1,,.-.1 .. ,, ... .., __ ,. .... , ... _,.,_ ·-· .,.v. 
In 1966 Graf( received City College's covated Townsend 
Harris Medal in recognition of distinguished post-graduate 
achievement in his chosen field. He has been honored with 
Columbia's Great 'l'eacher Award and with the Mark. Van 0o_'~;en Award, 
bestowed by the student body of Columbia College for distin­
,quished teaching and scholarship. In 1990 he received tpe Kidger 
Award of the New Lngland History Teachers Association for 
distinction as teacher and author. •• 
i),,.' ••• : 
Graff was honored with a Senior Fellot.rship at the Freedom 
Forum Media studies Center (formerly the Gannett Foundation Media 
Center) at Columbia for the academic year 1991-1992, in order to 
work on hls book of essays on the Presidency, t~ntatively 
enlitled "The Role of the Press in Shaping the Persona of the 
Pres id ency. 
11 
~ ;c; 
. j ., 
Graff serves as a member of 'the board o't. Directors-·or·, the 
Hand HcNally Comp;my, whose headquarters are in Skokie, Illinois, 
and has served on the Board of Trustees of the Columbia Univer­
sity Press. He is President of Columbia's Friends of the 
Library. He ls chairman of the editorial board of Constitution 
inagazine, and was a member of the edil.orlal advisory board of the 
four-volume Encyclopedia of the American Presidency publishP.d by 
Simon and Schuster in 1994. • 
Graff's professional societies and affiliatlons include the 
American llisLorical Association, the organization oC American 
Historians, the Society of the Histor:fans a! American Foreign 
!<elations, P.B.N., and the Authors Guild. lie isa Fellow of the 
Society of American Historians. He is also a member of the 
Century Association and the Council of Foreign Relations .. 
Graff is 1Darr.ied to the former J::di th Krantz. They have two 
daughters, Iris Joan Morse (Mrs. Andrew lL Morse). and Ellen Toby 
Graff, a partner in the law firm of Wiera, Malkin & lleLlex._ The 
Graf.fs reside at 47 Andrea Lane, Scarsdale, New Yor~: 10583. 
February 6, 1994 
Additional details may be found in the current edition of Who's 
Who in America. 
