• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY '75 
•• 
COINTELPRO operations. This same letter also notes that one 
Morris Starsky, one of the four persons referred to above, 
was made known to the FBI during a conference on 6/12/75, as 
a person who would be the subject of a case study by the SSC. 
This is not so. Inquiry was made of those Bureau superviso~s 
who attended the conference and a review of the memorandum 
written following the conference was made. Neither the 
memorandum nor the recollection of Bureau supervisors attending 
the conference indicates the name Morris Starsky was mentioned 
by SSC staff personnel. 
The 7/8/75 SSC letter requests among other things: 
(1) all memoranda and other materials which relate to a meeting 
between the President and Roy Wilkins, A. Philip Randolph, 
Whitney Young, Mrs. Dorothy Ha~ght, James Farmer and Jack 
Greenberg on 11/19/64; (2) a copy of a November, 1964, telegram 
from Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., to Director Hoover and all 
notes, me~oranda, and any other materials reflecting the 
disposition of, or actions taken as a result of the receipt 
of, said telegram; (3) all memoranda and other materials which 
relate to a meeting between the President and Dr. King on 
2/9/65; (4) all other materials which relate to the transfer of 
former Special Agent Robert C. Nichols to the Oklahoma Office of 
the FBI in June, 1969; (5) all forms and attachments including 
forms entitled "Performance Rating Guide For Investigative 
Personnel," from 1959 until ~etirement for former Special 
Agents Robert C. Nichols and Alan Sentinella. •• 
OBSERVATION: 
It would appear the above-cited requests do, in fact, 
violate the privacy of individuals and possibly place in jeopardy 
the identity of persons who cooperated with the FBI. Consistent 
with the agreement in the exchange of letters between Colby and 
Church dated 3/11 and 12/75, it is believed the Director should 
raise these questions with the SSC and attempt to get relief 
from the requirement of revealing the names of FBI sources or 
violating the privacy of individuals. Certainly the request for 
information on former Special Agents Nichols and Sentinella goes 
to the heart of the privacy issue and appears to be a blatant 
disregard for their privacy. 
AC.TION CONTINUED - OVER 
- 3 -
• NW 38196 Docld:32989fi24 239 
