◄ 
( 
( 
Ir 
SECTION 107 .• ECURITY INFOR.l'1itNTS .Al:D C01-!FIDEIIAL SOURCES. 107D-F 
4. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters where contact is 
maintained on a periodic basis dependent on circumstances, contact 
potential informants personally at least once every two weeks. 
5. Advise Bureau of progress being made at least every six months. Sub­
mit letters (FD-401) concerning potential informanta who are_ not being 
paid on Bureau authorization on UACB basis; include summary of infor­
-mation furnished during _past six months and certifications regarding 
stability and indoctrination against disclosure. Follow form indicated 
under § 1071, item 3b, below, except those items concerning. payments. 
6. Post record of all contacts with potential informants. 
7. During contacts with potential informants, if it develops individual 
does not have necessary capabilities, discontinue efforts. 
8. Informants may raise a question concerning their position i_f it becomes 
known publicly they are affiliated with subversive organization. • In . • 
such case, he may be told that his cooperation is matter of record in 
FBI and if some question arises concerning his loyalty we will consider 
making facts of his cooperation known to his employer or to reisponsible 
individuals. Before taking steps to advise anyone of potential infor­
mant's or informant's cooperation, obtain Bureau authority. 
9. From first interview with potential ~nfor:wznt through development and· 
until discontinued, use extreme caution at all times to be .certain he is 
not a plant. 
10. When potential informant begins to furnish current information and 
otherwise qualifies for designation as informant, assign permanent 
symbol number and advise Bureau. This co:w.munication must be pers ona°lly 
initialed by SAC or ASAC acting in his absence. Individual's 
background must be thoroughly reviewed at this time, keeping 
in mind possibility of using informant as witness. If individual 
has any weaknesses, set forth saf.eguards being followed to 
insure security and prevent embarrassment to Bureau. 
E. BUREAU POLICY 
1. Development of military personnel 
Do not develop informants among military personnel on military reserva­
tions, establishments, etc., unless specifically approved by.Bureau. 
2. Contacts by designated Agents 
Contacts with informant or potential informant should only be made by 
Agent or Agents specifically designated to contact him. 
3. Divulging information to informant 
No information should be divulged to potential informant or informant 
concerning any of Bureau's investigative activity o·l;her tha:ii. that which -
is essential to his prop~r operation, 
4. Recording investigative activity 
All investigative activity ~ust be made matter of record in field office . 
files with all sources of informa.ti on be.i:il.g completely identified. Agents 
must not have e.nd use informants known only to i:ndividual Agents personally. 
F. INDOCTRINATION, DIRECTION, AND CONTROL OF INFORMANTS 
1. Caution against divulging relationship 
During initial development and consistently thereafter, impress upon 
informant absolute necessity that he refrain from divulging his. rela­
tionship with Bureau. These instructions must be properly pnrased to 
prevent possibility of Bureau's being accused of attempting to impose 
censorship. 
2. Developing additional background 
During development of informant, additional data concerning his back­
ground should be continuously obtained from informant. Be alert for 
data revealing he is mentally or emotionally unstable, or has some.­
personal problem which would make him a risk. 
3. Indications of instability 
Irr>.mediately furnish details of any indications of instability·t;o Bureau, 
with recon,.mendations as to informant's continuance and comments as t-o 
any steps being taken to prevent embarrassment to Bureau. 
5 
5-13-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1704 
