NW 
-
M. A. Jones to Bishop 
RE: LUNCHEON WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL 
sources have;:advised that Senator John ~McClellan (D. -Ark.) and Senator Roman 
Hruska (R. -Neb.) plan to combine their bills authorizing controlled use of 
wiretaps and eavesdropping devices and to add this to H. R. 5037 in Committee. 
• They feel wiretap legislation as a part of the Administration's crime bill will 
have an excellent chance for passage and possible _acceptance by the President._ 
ORGANIZED CRIME:· 
/ 
\.. ' 
·,.\.. . As of September 7, 1967, there were. a total of .382 individuals, 
invqlved in organized criminal activities, who have been arrested, indicted, 
or awaiting further prosecutive action in connection with violations of 
various Federal statutes. • 
By letter dated July 2 7, 19 67, the Bureau called to the attention 
of the Attorney General a situation where 23 individuals arrested in New York 
for violations _of the gambling laws in 19 64 were still awaiting final prosecutive 
action.· It was called to the attention of the Attorney General that prosecutive 
action taken at the earliest possible date with reference to these individuals 
would greatly assist in increasing acc9mplishments in the organized crime 
field during the present fiscal year. • To date no response fro~ the Attorney 
General has been received to this communication. 
The Attorney General has indicated that he is desirous of 
achieving in the .neighborhood of 400 convictions of individuals involved in 
organized crime during this fiscal year. With 382 such subjects already 
awaiting prosecution, the Attorney General's goal would appear to be readily 
available if vigorous prosecutive action is taken of these individuals ~t the 
earliest possible date by the Department . 
. "LIFE" MAGAZINE ARTICLE: 
"Life" magazine has run articles for the last two weeks on 
• La Cosa Nostra, which articles were written by Sandy Smith,. former crilne • 
reporter for the "Chicago Tribw1e "~ Smith has done an excellent job in these 
articles in Jocusing public attention on the Cosa Nostra leaders as well as 
their political affiliations and the need for electronic surveillances in order 
. to cope with the 1nenace of organized crin1e . 
.. 
Smith 'is an outstanding investigative reporter who has a 
wealth of independent knowledge built up ov~r the years on La Cosa Nostra .. 
He also has tre1nendous contacts a1nong the local and state police intelligence 
agencies throughout the country. In addition, it is obvious that he obtained 
considerable help f ro1n such persons as Professor Robert Blakey of Notre 
Daine, for111er Departmental Attorney· in the Organized Crin1e Section, in 
*and "Chicago Sun-Times." 
3 : 321 gg;-554 . 
5 - 4 -
(CONTINUED - OVER) 
~ J1 
