13-00000 
24 April 19 63 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Meeting of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, 
1015, Tuesday, 23 April 1963 
Present: Dr. Killian, Mr. Murphy, Mr. Clifford, Mr. Pace, 
Gen. Doolittle, Mr. Gray, Dr. Langer, Dr. Land; 
Staff members Messrs. Coyne an:d Ash; 
From CIA: Mr. McCone, Mr. FitzGerald, 
Mr. Bruce Clarke, Mr. Lyman Kirkpatrick 
1. When Mr. McCone entered the room the group had been discussing 
the release of the American prisoners in Cuba, and it had been explained to 
the Board that the three CIA men who ~d been imprisoned had been released. 
Mr. Murphy had asked what their cover story had been and had been told 
that they represented themselves as conducting audio surveillance for com­
mercial interests, and that their fictitious names lad apparently held up 
during interrogation. 
Mr. Murphy asked Mr. McCone the conditions of the release of the 
Z2 and the DCI explained that at Castro's request we were-trying to obscure 
the fact that there had been a quid pro quo in releasing the four Cubans in 
exchange for the 22 Americans. The Attorney General had arranged the 
release of the three Cubans who had been accused of, but not convicted of 
sabotage, · and Mr. McCone had personally arranged the release of Molina 
with Governor Rockefeller, who had granted him executive clemency with 
deportation. Mr. McCone noted that the release ~f the three CIA persons 
was very important to the Agency, and that nothing in the agreement for the 
release involved any other commitments. 
Mr. Murphy asked what the DCI thought was behind Castro's making 
these releases~ . Mr. McCone replied that it was probably domestic foibles, 
and that Donovan was the only thread open to the United States. Mr. Clifford 
asked if we had everyone out that we wanted. The DCI replied that he knew 
of no one else there that we wanted. He reported that Donovan had to make 
a statement that he would not return to Cuba, advised that he had no intention 
of returning at this time, and he would have to use another cover if he did 
return. Dr. Land asked why Castro did all this, and the DCI said we didn't 
really know, but one possibility offered by Donovan was that Castro 
apparently is interested in trying to reach some rapprochement with 
