some secret channel circumventing the whole structure· 
of command by which the CIA and certain officials in 
the CIA were authorized to proceed wifh assassination 
plots and assassination attempt~ against Castro. Or the 
third and final point that I can think of is that 
somehow these officials of the CIA who were so engaged 
misunderstood or misinterpreted their scope of authority. 
Now it is terribly important, if there is any way that we 
can find out whicl1 of these three points represented what 
actually happened. That is the nature, that is the 
quandary. 
Now, is there anything that you can tell us that would 
assist us in finding an answer to this central question? 
Mr. McNamara. I can only tell you what will further your 
uneasiness. Because I have stated before and I believe 
today that the CIA was a highly disciplined organization, 
fully under the control of senior officials of the govern­
ment, so much so that I feel as a senior·official of the 
government I must assume responsibility for the actions 
of the ·two, putting assassinati~n aside just for the 
moment. But I know of no rnajo~ action taken by CIA during 
the time I was in the government that was not properly 
authorized by senior officials. And when I say that I 
want to emphasize also that I believe with hindsight we 
authorized actions that were.contrary to the interest of the 
Republic but I don't want it on the record that the CIA 
was uncontrolled, was operating with its own authority 
and ~e ~an be absolved of responsibility for what CIA 
. did, again with exception of assassination, again which 
I say I never heard of. 
The second point you say that you have, you know that 
CIA was engaged in a series of attempts of assassination. 
I think to use your words. r· don't know. that. I accept 
the fact that you do and that you have information I was 
not aware of. I find that impossible to reconcile. I just 
can't understand how it could have happened and I don't 
accept the third point, that they operated on the basis 
of rninunderstanding, because it seems to me that the 
McCone positiori that he was opposed to it, 
recollection and his written memo of 1967 
opposed to it., his statement that Murrow opp 
eliminate any point of misunderstanding. So 
reconcile. (TR. 38-41) 
was strongly 
/all should 
,J~kly can't 
•• 4:'i)p,, 
~ 11 i ~> ··.,,~ _ 
f,lcNamara further stated that "I find it almost inconceiv,ible~~ 
·"''0 tr. )ix) 
assassim1tion attempts were carried on during the l(nnnecly /\dminist?H~_ ~, 
• •• 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 194 
