kept 1mdcr continuinc; ccn1tiny by all interested 
c1ep_.'1rtments aod ugencics to ensure that it serves 
the purposes of retardi-11i:; the i::;rovth of the war 
potential of the Sino-Soviet Bloc and reducing its 
w1:i. ty. Noted that, with respect to paracre.ph 11 of 
NSC 57ol~/3, U.S. e:•:-port controls over such rr.aterie.ls, 
equipwent, teclrnolo[:';Y and services as can be unU.nter­
ally controlled by the United States mn.y be imposed 
not only to achieve a worthwhile e.dverse impact on 
tbe \;ar potential of the European Soviet Bloc, but 
alco to serve other U.S. policy objectives, especially 
,ri th rer;-a.rd to technology and services. 
NO'TE: The action in b above, e.s approved by the President, 
subsequently transmitted to all holders of NSC 5701~/3. 
5. SIGI/IFICANT HORLD DEVEWl~•E-=:ilTS AFrECTH:G U.S. SECURITY 
!fr. Dulles saiµ he would. first sur,;..;arize developments in 
the Congo. Several African states vere m2..king frantic efforts 
to save LUI:rumba:. An intercepted mess2.ge beh:een Egypt und Ghana 
indicates that Nasser is urging the UAR, Ghana, p_nd Guinea to 
concentrate their forces in Leopoldville and 1.iring pressure to 
bear for the maintenc_nce of LtL'11urnba as Fri.me gin:ister. Mr .Dulles 
reII1E.rked that the bulk of the U!lR forces now in the Congo had 
been placed n.dvisedly in north Equateu.r Province, ,;bile the 
Guinea forces were in the northern pa1-t of kopoldville Province. 
Intercepted messae;es also indicated that Nasser had asked tho.t 
a council be fanned in Leopoldville consisting of the diplomntic 
representatives of the UAR, Gh..-ma, and Guinea in that city. Tne 
UAR 1\mbassudor to the Congo had been directed, in concert with 
the Ambassadors of Ghe.na, Guinea and 1.forocco to attempt to per­
sunde Kasavubu to effect a reconciliation ... .-ith Lumumba.. On Sep­
tember 20 Kasavubu had announced that he had reached no acreernent 
with Lwnumba but the latter had L-'lter displayed o. piece of paper 
purporting to be an agreement with Knsavubu. 
Secretary DiJ_lon reported that Lwmunba hn.d re<1_uested n visa 
for travel to New York as the representative_ of the Congo to 
the UH o.nd bad also requested a visa as an official of the Gvvern­
mcnt of the Congo. He had denied both requests for visas. How­
ever, if Lwnwnba asked for a visa to visit tl1e U.S. as a private 
citizen, we ¥ould Jmve difficulty in turning him down.Mr.Dillon 
o.dded tlmt the Congo _Government declares it will arrest Luruumba 
if he attempts to leave tne country. 
TOP SECRET 
•·',"I.: 
NW 50955 Docid: 32423.566 Page 129 
-
