6H 
[ 
[ 
3. 
4. 
P.ART II 
-SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIG CONTACTS 
h. If an item to be 
paper, the words 
tinued page, and 
mounted. 
s~bmitted appears on more than one page of the news­
" Continued on page ... ," the subh.eadJ.:ine on- the con­
the words "Continued from page ... _." .. should :not be 
i. Mounted clippings should read from top to bottom, column by column, 
from left to right. 
j. All clippings must be complete. 
k. Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted except that two copies 
of all items pertaini.ng to actual or possible civil rights .violations 
and racial matters should be forwarded. 
1. ·Include clippings with other mail being sent to Bureau on the day 
that the clippings appear in the local pa.per. Forward clippings from 
resident agencies the day they arrive .at· headquarters city: 
Resident .Agents must be alert for material appearing in the local press. 
Submission of publications of security interest to the Bureau 
a. General principle governing submissions 
The Bureau desires·to receive publications of ~ecurity interest at the 
SOG fo.r purposes o.f information, research, an9- intelligence. Conse­
.quently,'. it is requested that evidentiary copies of publications be 
retained in the field and only nonevidentiary copies be forwarded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. 
b. Manner of handling and forwarding non:evidl;lnti.ary copies of publica­
tions 
(i) Nonevidentiary copies of newspapers, magazines, journals, 
periodicals, news bulletins, and books, obtained regularly 
(by subscription or repeated purchase) and.forwarded to the 
Bureau, need not be identified as to source. They should be 
·submitted via ordinary mail by routing sl~p (marked for the 
attention of the Central Research[Unit))unless transmittal 
( 2) 
( 3) 
by cover letter has been specifically requested. Routing slips 
·may be used to notify the Bureau of routine administrative • 
matters, such as temporary suspension of a publication (e.g.,. 
during summer months, lack of funds), temporary delay in obtaining 
or receiving particular issues of·a publication, or,other informa­
tion which will keep the Bureau informed relative to the status 
·of these publications. To avoid confusion, nonevidentiary copies 
which have been marked for identification (source, Agent, date, 
and place of acquisition) should be further annotated: "Not 
Evidence," 
Letters should be used in connection with initiating action or 
ceasing action to obtain publications desired by the.Bureau; to 
call to the attention of the Bureau speci~ic items:of information 
connected with these publications; and in those instances in 
which good judgment dictates that certain circumstances or 
information should be recorded in letter form. 
Each SAC and each legal attache must. keep the Bureau, attention 
Central Research(Unit,)informed on a current _basis regarding 
publications (including books) of potential interest that are 
not included in the current list of publications which is 
supplied periodically to the field and to the legal"attaches. 
These publications would include those published by subjects. 
of security or counterintelligence investigations and publications 
which may otherwise have a security or counterintelligence 
significance. 
Each SAC and each legal attache should insure.that the handling 
of publications for which his office is responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. Subscriptions to these 
publications should be followed closely to insure that the· 
publicattons are received at the Bureau on a current basis. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication in sufficient time to enable the 
Bureau to determine the necessity for renewal. 
5a 
10-28-63 
NW-3832.1-Docld:32:9:89529 Page 975 
( 
( 
