(2) 
. [ 
[ 
[ 
) 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
SI ION 87c SECURITY INVESTIGATI 87D 
agent responsible for such action •• rward. such data to 
Bureau and incorporate in next report submitted concerning 
individual in question. Where no investigation has been 
conducted by Bureau and there is no case on individual 
being denied clearance, give consideration to opening a 
security investigation if informati9n received from 
intelligence agency warrants such action 0 
Inclusion in security index / 
In recom-nending key facility employee for inclusion in secur~ty 
index,FD-122 is to contain: 
{a) Key facility geographical reference number 
(b) Abbreviation for agency having security responsibility 
{c) Abbreviations for interested agencies·obtained from 
Department of Defense Key Facilities Listo Interested 
.. ··::-:;-:_.: agencies should be __ identi_fied on:_!D-12? to assure proper 
dissemination of reports but wi11··not appear on security 
index cards returned from Bureau. 
(d) Abbreviation AEC immediately :c' ,.owin.g abbreviation for 
agency having security responsit~lity when abbreviation 
of responsible a~ency on key facilities list i~ followed 
by as·l;erisk, which denotes Atomic Energy Commissi9n is 
involved in security responsibility. This data will appear 
on security index cards returned from the Bureau • 
.. ~-If subject of exTsting security index card is found to have be,­
come employed in a key facility, FD-122 must be submitted to 
Bureau with above-required key facility data set forth thereon. 
Case is then to be handled in acco~dance with instructions set 
forth below concerning'key facility Qaseso 
[Deleted] 
Dissemination 
Upon receipt of original complaint or allegation concerning 
key facility employee from source other than interested 
intelligence agency, a summary of complaint and information 
concerning the individual should be furnished irr..i.-ne4,iately by 
[letter]to interested intelligenoe agency. Intelligence 
agency should then be advised whether a security investigation 
is being conducted of the individual and, if investiga~ion 
is being conducted, that copies of reports will be fu·rnished 
µpon completion of in.Yestigation. Letter to intelligence a;.:;,rncy 
should clearly point out that information is unsubstantiated 
and has not been verified through investigation by FBI. 
These instructions do not apply to allegations bf espiona,ge or 
those of such a confidential character as would not ordi~arily 
be dissemin::i;j;ede Such information appearing to be of i!f.;.ediate 
interest ·t;o .other intelligence a·gencies should be submitted to 
Bureau by most expeditious means~ depending upon the circums tan.ces, 
with a request that the Bureau consider advisability of dissemi­
nating ito 
Disseminate copies of each report to local representatives 
of interested intelligence agencies as reflected in key 
836 
65 
4-10-59 
