87E 
[ 
[ [5.] 
[ [7.] 
[ [8.} 
[ (10.] 
,. 
s· 'fION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATir ' ; : 
[f.] Advise Burea.romptly by LHM of subject's re.rn from travel· abroad. 
If such individtw.l has traveled behind Iron Curtain, ·also furnish 
Bureau recommendations as to interview and state whether. additional 
investigation is contemplated. 
File reviews 
Check office indices and review files thoroughly for pertinent infor­
mation showing background and subversive activity. Include information 
.in initial report .. After each check and review of files h'as been made, 
consolidate reference cards pertaining to subject in indices. 
Security informants 
Information developed through security informants is unsurpassed in 
value both for intelligence purposes and as admissible evidence. 
Physical surveillances 
Physical surveillances should be used wh~n, in opinion of SAC, infor­
mation of sufficient value might be obtained to justify their use· in 
light of existing circumstances and available manpower. 
a. When information is received that meetings of subversive organiza-· 
tions are to take place, physical surveillances should be considered 
to corroborate such information and identify participants. 
b. Surveillances of individuals in leadership or underground capacities 
serve to identify others within movement. • 
c. Success of surveillances depends upon resourcefulness of Agents who 
must at all times exercise sound judgment and discretion. Be alert 
to observe activity of subject and countersurveillances which may 
be used to identify Agents and embarrass Bureau. 
Photographic surveillances . 
Photographic evidence. of meetings between ,individuals ·or which shows sub­
jects entering or leaving meeting places of subversive organizations af­
f·ords convincing and admissible evidence to establish subversive activ­
ities. Prior Bureau authority is needed for photographic Burveillances 
of meetings and they must be properly correla·l;ed with other investi­
gative techniques to obtain maxi·mum evidence. ·Conceal equipment to avoid 
detection by subjects or other individuals in proximity of surveilla~ce. 
Public sources . 
~~ke use of all logical public sources of information. Obtain background 
and lineage data from birth records and local bureaus of vital stati~tics; 
credit agencies, state records, public utility records, and school records. 
Credit check of individual should be limited to obtaining identifying 
information only (name, address, former address, employment, former 
employment) .. Obtain and index as reference material publications of 
subversive organizations and records of state a,nd Federal committees which 
have conducted hearings concerning subversive activities. 
Records of urivate firms .. 
Where oerti~ent infor~~tion is available in.r.ecords of private firms, such 
as past or. pre sent employers, insurance companies, a_nd merchants, cont2.ct 
such firms provided it will not jeopardize investigation. • 
a. Channelizing of information to case files 
Memberscip or activity in subversive organizations should be chan­
nelized to main case files of individuals involved. Mimeographed form 
FD-3O6 may be used provided it is limited to reporting attendance at 
meetings. When information from informants or surveillances is chan­
nelized to individual case files, it must be documented. Coordinate 
information received from informants and confidential sources with 
active investigation. 
. 26 
·4-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 
( 
( 
I 
i 
i 
l • I 
! 
l 
I 
I I 
i 
l 
I 
i ' I 
i 
I 
i 
i l 
l 
I 
I I ! 
i 
