14-00000 
j 
from two stations in its Final Compliance Statement. The 
two stations in question are Mexico City for the period 
1963-1964, and Moscow for the period 1959-1962. 
It has been long-standing practice and policy that 
materials that the DO keeps in the field are for imm~diate 
operational needs, and that record materials are to be 
returned to Headquarters for safekeeping. Limited storage 
space overseas as well as the risk of physical loss in the 
event of civil unrest or the need for evacuation are 
contributing factors to this policy. Once at Headquarters, 
these materials are normally organized by topic or subject 
rather than by station because this is the way that work is 
performed. Particularly with paper records and the passage 
of significant time, it is extremely difficult if not 
impossible to reconstruct with any confidence, a full set of 
documents for any particular station. 
We do know that files from Mexico City Station are 
listed in the documents found in the sequestered collection 
and the Oswald 201 file materials. This divergence from 
normal practice with respect to these files can be explained 
by the obvious high interest of the Warren Commission in the 
events in Mexico City surrounding the time of the assassin­
ation (as shown by the fact that they are contained in the 
Warren Commission materials). It would not have been normal 
practice at the time for the Agency to keep these records in 
this form. Thus, other than the materials in the sequest­
ered collection and the Oswald 201 file, we have been unable 
to identify collections of records which would represent 
files for the two stations for the periods requested. 
HTLINGUAL 
The Church and Pike Committees both expressed concern 
about HTLINGUAL, a mail opening project which held 
information on American citiz.ens. As a result of these 
investigations, CIA was directed by court order to destroy 
all HTLINGUAL material. It is reasonable to believe that an 
HTLINGUAL file existed on Lee Harvey Oswald; however, along 
with all other files designated as HTLINGUAL files, it would 
have been destroyed in accordance with the court order. 
Within the JFK sequestered collection, there are HTLINGUAL 
materials on Oswald -- materials which were apparently 
copied from the HTLINGUAL files before they were destroyed 
in accordance with the court order. It is not possible, 
however, to say that everything on Oswald that was held in 
the HTLINGUAL file wound up in the JFK collection. (See Tab 
2 of Attachment V for ~ore details.) 
4 
