13-00000 : I 
I; 
The Honorable John M. Deutch 
November 27, 1996 
Page3 
agency's compliance with,. the JFK Act ("Statement ~f Compliance"), 
setting forth the steps that the agency has taken to_locate and process 
assassination records. The Review Board recognizes that many of the 
. relevant federal agencies, including the Centtal Intelligence Agency, have 
previously written letters to the Review-Board apprising it of their 
progress at various stages of 'identifying and processing assassination 
records under the JFK Act. The Statement of Compliance, while it mily 
include information previously reported to the Board, is to be the agency's 
comprehensive and final report-to the American public of what it has 
done to locate records relating to the assassination. This Statement of 
Compliance shall include, to the fullest reasonable extent, the following 
information: • • 
a. A CQmplete description of all steps that your agency took to 
identify and locate assassination records including, but not limited 
to, an identification of the major record collections and files that 
were consulted in the agency's search, any departmental file • 
indices consulted, the names and titles of the persons who were 
responsible for conducting the searches, the physical locations of 
the recm;ds that were searched, the off-site storage facilities (e.g., 
Federal Records Centers) searched, the specific steps that were 
taken to locate and retrieve materials in archives, and any other 
criteria used by the agency to locate assassination records. 
b. A description of the steps that the agency took in direct response to 
specific requests of the Review Bo~d to locate certain additional 
records or information relating to the assassination. In particular, 
we ask that the 0A describe what specific steps it has taken to 
address the following requests: OA-9, Publications and Analytical 
Matenals (See David G. Marwell letter dated March 6, 1996 to Mr. 
John Pereira); OA-11, Silvia Duran's Original Statement (See David 
G~ Marwell letter dated May 3, 1996 to Mr. John Pereira); CIA-12, 
JMWA VE Materials (See David G. Marwell letter dated May 22, 
1996 to Mr. John Pereira); for HTLINGUAL records (See T. Jeremy 
Gunn Memorandum dated October 1, 1996 to Mr. Barry Harrelson); 
and ,for Monthly Operational Reports on Cuban Exile Groups (See 
Manuel E. Legaspi Memorandum dated October 17, 1996 to Mr. 
Barry Harrelson) .. 
