13-00000 
. Residence, The American University. We have been honored to engage in this 
important effort to make the history of the Kennedy assassination available to the 
American public and I am pleased to be here today to testify before this Subcommittee 
and answer any of your questions. 
I would also like to describe briefly the professional staff that we are fortunate to have 
hired. The Executiye pirector is Dr. David G. •. Marwell, a professionalhistorian who 
gained vast experience dealing with.large numbers of important historical documents 
with the Office of Special Investigations at the Department of Justice and later as the 
Director of the Berlin Document Center. He leads a staff of-28 full-time employees, who 
have varied backgrounds as historians, lawyers, analysts, investigators, and 
administrators. The members of the staff have approached their unique task with 
seriousness of purpose, creativity, professionalism, and competence, and have assisted 
us in shedding new light on the assassination through the release of thousands of 
Federal Government records, and the acquisition of records in private hands and local 
governments that were not previously--avaiiable to the_ American public/ ;J believe1that -
we assembled exactly the type :of-pi:ofessional ~d diversified sthlfthat' tortgfess -• -·' • • 
envisioned would be necessary to accomplish this difficult assignment. 
II. Accomplishments to Date 
As I know you are aware, the Review Board was created by The President John F. 
Kennedy Assassination Reoords Collection Act of 1992 OFK Act) as an independent 
Federal agency to oversee the identification and release of records related to the 
assassination of President Kennedy. I know that certain members of this subcommittee 
played a role in craftjng and passing the JFK Act-a unique piece of legislation • •• 
designed to remove doubt and speculation about the content of government records 
related to the assassination of President Kennedy. As a result of these lingering 
suspicions, Congress determined that an independent board was the most effective and 
efficient vehicle to make all assassination records available to the public. 
The Review Board has accomplished much since we began releasing previously secret 
records in June of 1995. The Board has acted to transfer more than 14,000 documents to 
the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection (JFK Collection) at the 
National Archives and Records Administration. We would not have been successful in •. 
our efforts without the significant assistance of the National Archives. The JFK 
Collection currently totals approximately 3.7 million pages and is used extensively by 
researchers from all over the United States. 
. 
By the end of Fiscal Year 1997, the Review Board will have reviewed and processed . 
nearly all-of the assassination records that have been identified by the more than 30 
different government ·offices believed to be in possession of relevant records, with the 
2 
... 
·) Ja ... 
