13-00000 
. . . . ..,: 
PAGE 34 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
you believe the CIA and FBI will release information sooner? And if so, 
presumably they'll still be redacted, which still could lead to Oliver Stone 
movies and Lincoln conspiracy books and all sorts of things. 
MR. HOLLAND: Mr. Chairman, I think that the fact that these records are 30 years 
old has helped in obtaining their release. It's not information about the 
assassination per se that agencies have objected to releasing. It's more who 
said what to who, who's an intelligence agent and who's an informant for the 
FBI, those kinds of issues. And there will still be institutional reluctance to 
release any of that information. 
I hope that through this process we can demonstrate to the public and to these 
agencies that this information can be released to the public, that the public 
can be trusted with information like this. There will still be a need for 
secrecy to a certain extent, but certainly not with the broad brush/black pen 
approach of the past. 
REP.: We first learned-I was elected in '94, and our first experience in 
this committee was with Waco, where we had similar questions and still had some 
information that wasn't able to be released. We're certainly having that 
ongoing debate with the administration right now, because it gets far beyond the 
initial investigation. In the course of Travelgate we discovered the data bank. 
And, of course, with the data bank you discover the code, and then you find out 
that the code leads to this. Pretty soon you're off into other investigations. 
That's going to be an ongoing problem. Do you believe, in the end, that this 
. will have silenced most critics? 
MR. HOLLAND: In my view, Mr. Chairman, it will silence some. It will perhaps 
provoke others. 
We're many years after an event that was investigated in a different era. There 
were many mistakes made at the time that cannot be corrected at this stage in 
time. But I think when the review board is done with its work, one thing we 
sho.uld be able to prove to the American people is that the federal government is 
no longer keeping secrets from them relative to the Kennedy assassination. I 
think that will be a very significant development. 
Whether all the questions will be resolved or not, that's a question for 
historians in the future who will review these materials and will make their 
determinations. This is like a gigantic puzzle with a lot of pieces missing. 
We are putting some of those pieces in, small pieces and large pieces. But 
there's a lot of pieces of the puzzle that will never be found .. 
REP. : I want to ask one last question, and that's options of dealing with 
acquiring the Zapruder film. Is that going to be a cost additional to what 
you're requesting? Do you have options on how to pay for that? What's the 
