[ 
[ 
[ 
S'l<X'l'ION 107. -:JURI'l'Y INFORMANTS .rnD co:•:r'IDEN-L SOURC}!S 
4, Ji'our~month cvr.luatiori of inforin~nts not pa.iu on Bureau authority 
If the informant is ncd; being paid. on Bureau authorization, a communi­
cation must be transmitted to the Bureau every four months after the 
date of des:i.gna·tion containing the sawo information se·t out above in 
subsec·tion 3b except those items concerning payments. Recommendation 
of SJ\C regarding continuance of informant should also be set forth UA.CB. 
In espionage and foreign nationality cases comment is necessary regarding 
only those applicable items in subsection 3b, 
5. Receipts 
When payments are made to anyone for information or assistance on securi·ty 
matters, either on the SAC•s authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obta:i.ned in every instance in which it is possible to do so. If a • 
receipt cannot 1m obtained for a particular payment, complete circumstances 
should be set forth on the blue slip at the time reimbursement is claimed. 
a, Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes necossary to introduce the ~eceipts in evidence 
durin£t the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate to o_ther 
docu.rn,,nts or files. 
b, Receipts should clearly show: 
1
1) Date on which payment was made 
2) Perio<l for which made when informant is paid on a period basis 
3} Total ;.1nount paid broken down into separate amounts for services 
or expenses where these items are pertinent 
(
5
4) Name of Agent making payment 
( ) Signature of person receiving the money 
c. Receipts ~re not to be witnessed by another Agent. 
d. If necess~ry to make corrections on the receipts, such correcti,· 
must be i,.'•:~ tialed by the informant and n·ot by the .Agent. 
e. When transmitting receipts and itemized statement·s of ex~enses to the 
Bureau, they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, leaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-ha;r inches a~ the top to 
avoid contact with the .Acco fastener punch. ,. e staples should be 
placed in such a manner that the date or othc • data appearing ori the 
re.:-~ipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
be eRsily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Care must 
be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clearly show· 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary material 
contained in Bufiles. 
6. Income tax returns 
a. Informants 71ho recei ye compensation for their service_s to the Bureau 
should be . ]:vised that such compensation mu.st be repqrted as inc,:ir,rn 
when filinJ an income tax return. . 
b. Since all informants are consid~red indepen9,ent contractors, 
they receive from the Bureau is self-employment income but, si, • 
Bureau do es not consider their activity as the carrying c,n of ;. :.~ 
or business, they may consider dispensing with the filing of a sch~aule 
C as part of farm 1040 if they so desire. 
c. The informant 1 s own personal situation, however, should be taken into 
consideration.as he may receive income from ot1. sources as an inde­
pendent contractor which would require the d.ed.uc~ion of self-employ­
ment tax, regardless of any Bureau income he may receive, 
d. In considering the filing of a tax on self-employment income, such 
a return is ba~ed upon .a.et earnings from self-empl0yment of $400 
or more, If an inform'• ·, receives less than $400 from the Bureau 
and has no other self-<.·'!.oyment income, this money in n.ny event 
is not subject to the :,,,'f-employment tax. If the inf.:-·"mant re­
ceives $4800 or more fro.;:: outsid:e employment subject : Social 
Security tax, again the self-employment tax requiremi· • • •. do -:i.ot 
apply. 
e. Bureau income should be set forth under item[5)on pP ·ne oft}~ 
Federal income tax return, form 1040, :1nd explained . r[ part • • 
schedule B,]of the return as income received from ot~ sources ,r 
personal ser-vices rendered through a private enterprir,· or simi __ 
general term applicable to informant's position and station in l~fe. 
20 
5-18-62 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1543 
·( 
