GOROON GRAY: Short Surrma.ry 
Gordon Gray was Special Assistant to .the President for National Security 
Affairs from 1958,-1961. During this i;:eriod Gray represented President 
EISENHa'IBR at Special Group rreetings at which the following subjects 
,were discussed: "any particular kind of activity which might contribute 
.to getting rid of LUMUMBA"; provision of small arms to opponents to 
TRUJILLO in the D:::mlinican Republic; and detailed planning for "how the 
U. S. wishes to rrove against CASTID" •. 
Gray's testinony should involve the following questions (see attached 
list of exhibits): 
CASTOO 
1. What was Admiral Burke referring to at the March 14, 1960, NSC rreet­
ing when he spoke of "a plan for the rerroval of Cuban leaders should 
be a package deal"? (Exhibit at Tab E) 
2. Is there a connection betvveen the plan referred to by Admiral Burke · 
at the .M1:rrch 14 NSC rreeting and the discussion at the March 14 
Special Group meeting on the "effect on the Cuban scene if Fidel and 
Raoul castro and Che Guevara should disappear simultaneously"? 
(Exhibit at Tab F) 
3. Were President Eisenhower or Mr. Gray aware that on August 16, 1960, 
the CIA Office of Medical Services received a box of Cuban cigars to 
be treated with poison for use against Castro? (Exhibit at Tab 0) 
4. Were President Eisenhower or Mr. Gray aware that in August 1960 
Bissell asked Edwards to find underworld contacts with Cuba for an 
assassination mission? (Exhibit at Tab R) 
5. At the t-bvenber 3, 1960, Special Group meeting, was Mr. Merchant 
referring to planning for assassination when he asked whether plan­
ning had been done "in taking direct p:)Sitive action against Fidel, 
Raoul, and Che Guevara"? How does General cabell's resp:)nse (that 
Merchant's suggestion "is beyond our capabilities") square with the 
fact that shortly before November 1960 the.CIA had-rrade contact with 
the Mafia for a castro assassination effort? (Exhibit at Tab V) 
TRUJILLO 
1. Was Vice President Nixon referring to assassination.at the April 14, 
1960, NSC meeting when he said "getting rid of Trujillo would be a 
favorgble developrent"? (Exhibit at Tab H) 
NW 50955 Docid:32423488 Page.15 _ 
........... 
