13-00000 .. 
level. Mr. Rusk indicated he had seen Mr. McCone's letter. 
(Subsequently Mr. Adrian Fisher stated that they had worked 
all afternoon and. most of the night in revising the original 
,draft to meet the objections raised by the DCI and he thought 
that they had moderated their language and weasel-worded the 
statement adequately to meet DCI's objections.) The President 
then asked me if I had any specific, further objections to the 
statement now that the nuclear-free zone problem had been 
eliminated and that the DCI's letter was on record. I stated 
that depending upon what was actually finally determined as an 
international agreement, we might be in se.rious trouble on 
· verification but that this problem would come later. I felt that 
as a statement by the President there was adequate protection 
in future negotiations to ensure the best interests of the United 
States. (I subsequently checked with Adrian Fisher who assured 
me that there was no backoff in ACDA and State from the require­
ment for adequate verification and that the additional words 
inserted in the latest draft were specifically to meet DCI's prior 
objections. In other words, DCI's letter of comment is a matter 
of record with the President and the other principals at the 
meeting, and the President commented that the Central Intel­
ligence Agency was certainly a smooth-operating outfit. It was 
obvious that he had his tongue in his cheek in this regard to 
indicate that we not only covered our rear but our flanks as well.) 
The President then directed a number of actions as regards 
Congressional briefings, preparation of a talk for him to make 
to the American public in explanation of his Geneva Conference 
statement. In connection with· this speech for American con­
sumption, he. directed that it be prepared so that any tenant 
farmer could understand it - - ten words per sentence, four sen­
tences per paragraph, and four-letter words throughout. 
6. This ended discussion of the Geneva Conference statement. 
7. New subjects: 
a. There was then a discussion of a letter to Khrushchev 
but I was not aware of the contents nor were the contents 
mentioned. The discussion revolved around the date at which 
such a letter would be made public . 
• ' , 
