13-00000 
l 
- TOP SECRET DINAR 
CUBAN EXILE AND REFUGEE ACTIVITIES - cont'd 
Cubanos Libres may be planning to hijack a ship in a 
raid that would be staged from Miami, according to a mem­
ber of, a group of Cuban refugees who have provided useful 
reports. The source reported that funds for the raid were 
to be raised at a dinner scheduled for 24 November in Le 
Tre Venezie restaurant, 472 West 9th Avenue, New York City. 
At the dinner, Cubanos Libres was planning to show films 
of their raids against Cardenas Bay in October 1962 and the 
Arechabala Refinery in June 1963. (CIA TDCSDB-3/658,109, 
28 November, CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM) . . ' . 
A small group.<>f ·euban refugees may have attempted to 
infiltrate Cuba •bout 27 November, according to a prominent 
exile activist who received the information from a close 
associate of a person involv.ed in the attempt. · Reportedly, 
a 20- to 22-foot speed-boat left Key Biscayne, Florida, the 
night of 26 November to rendezvous off Key Largo with a Cuban 
fishing boat and then proceed to an infiltration point on the 
north coast of Las Villas. • The fishing boat is reportedly 
based in a-shrimp. fishery on the southeast coast of Key Largo. 
The persons involved in the operation were Manuel Pedro 
Gutierrez Cardenas~ and presumably two infiltrees--Emilio 
Perez Fern•ndez and Luis Aguiar Perez. Two crew members, 
known only by nicknames, were "Comacho" and '.'Vascoy," possibly 
Jose Bascoy Barrios. (CIA TDCSDB-3/658,104,.27 November, 
SECRET/CONTROLLED DISSEM) 
BLOC RELATIONS: 
The Albanian ambassador to Cuba, Josif Pogace, delivered 
a speech to a nearly empty hall in Havana on 26 November. A 
Polish correspondent in Bav.ana informed Warsaw that the speech, 
in ;celebration of Albania's national holiday, was attended by 
only 80 people, mostly Chinese Communist embassy personnel, 
students>and j<>urnalists. Cuba was represented by an official 
of the-Cuban foreign cultural council .. The Polish correspond­
ent reports that the audience applauded the ambassador's words 
on the subject of "contemporary revisionism" and "the revision­
ist blockade of· Albania" but reacted with silence to his at­
tack on "false guarantees for Cuba." (CIA FEIIS 105, 27 Novem-
ber, OFFICIAL USE ONLY)· • 
-5-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
