13-00000 
"·\ 
";, 
:,.•· 
·:,. 
nym: LISAMPAN) is still in the 'interference-complaint, 
stage. 
Another important operation directed against t~e Olb~ Ii 
sophisticated provocation that won the CIA Intelligence M 
for Stan Archenhold,f the case officer who conceived it;· 
operation consisted of a series of letters sent to the Cuban in • 
gence ·service in their Mexico City Embassy from a person· ' 
purported to be a CIA officer trying to help them. The 
. purport to implicate Joaquin Ordoqui, a respected, old 
leader. of the Cuban Communist Party and a high-ranking nil 
tary Ic;ader, as a Cl A agent. The letters are based on infonna~: 
• froni Carlos Manuel Pellecer, the Guatemalan exile and pene'iil 
tion agent, who was closely associated with Ordoqui and M~·'. 
Rodriguez when all three lived in Mexico aty during the laie 
1950s. The letters continue to be sent to Cuban intelligenc:e11,· 
·though Ordoqui was arrested in 1964, and the desired contro, 
versy and dissension in the Cuban revolutionary leadership 
followed. • 
As the cover of She,:ry, the chief of the Cuban operations sec, 
tion, is in the Embassy consular section, he has been able to lllCd 
several of the Cuban consular officers directly. However, his main 
agent for direct assessment of the Cubans is Leander Vourvoullas_ 
Consul of Greece and President of the Consular Corps. 
Support Operations 
The support operations must also be detailed. e joint open. 
tion for telephone tapping, LIENVOY, is effecte<I fn cooperafiai 
'\lhffi the Mexican authutltles anti it1ra capacity for about forty 
lines. The station provides the equipment, the technical assistam, 
couriers and transcnl>ers, while the Mexicans make the conneo, 
tions in the exchanges and maintain the listening posts. In a&i 
tion to monitoring the lines of the communist diplomatic missions 
and those of Mexican revolutionary groups, i.1 EN v o Y also cown 
special cases. For years the telephones of ex-President Cardenas 
and his daughter have been tapped, and recently tapping ha 
started on that of Luis Quintanilla, a Mexican intellectual whoi 
planning a trip to Hanoi with the publisher of the Miami Nm 
and with a fellow of the Center for the Study of Democrali 
532 
'•tutions in Santa Barbara. Reports on plans for this trip an, 
imm~iately to the White House. • 
. 'J1)e station also has its own unilateral telephone>-tappiog 
peration which is limited to special cases where the involvement 
the Mexicans is thought to be undesirable. Connections for this 
-~ tion are made outsid~ the exchang~ by telephone company 
cogineers who work as station agents, as 10 the case of the bugging 
of the Cuban Embassy (LISAMPAN). However this is restricted as 
'far as possible in order to avoid damaging relations with the 
:Mexicans in the event of discovery~ 
' Travel control, general investigations and occasional surveil­
fanCC are the duties of a six-man team called LIFJRB. They obtain 
flight-travel lists from the airport. which are passed daily to the 
station and take photographs of passengers to and from com-
111unist countries ~d of their passports as they pass through 
immigration. 
Another eight-man surveillance team, known as LI EMBRACE. 
bas vehicles (including a Volkswagen photo-van) and radio­
communications equipment l!Jld is mamly concerned with Sovi.et/ 
satellite and Cuban targets. It is administered by Jim Anderson,t 
who also controls another eight-man team (LI_RJCE), similarly 
equipped, which deals with the Mexican revolutionaries and other 
miscellaneous targets. 
Postal interception is mainly directed towards the mail. from 
communist countries, but can occasionally be used to get corres­
pondence from selected Mexican addresses. 
As in every station, a variety of agents assists in support tasks 
which they perform in the course of their ordinary jobs. For 
processing the immigration papers for station non-o(licial cover 
persoMel, for example, Judd Austin,t one of the US lawyers in 
Goodrich, Dalton, Little and Riquelme (the principal law firm 
serving American subsidiaries) is used. The Executive Vice­
President of the American Chamber of Commerce in Mexico 
City, Al Wichtrich,t channels political information to the.station 
that he picks up in his normal work with American and Mexican 
businessmen. For technical support the station has an officer of 
Tso under Embassy cover with a workshop and qualificatiom 
in audio, flaps and seals, and photography. 
