- 6 -
not been introduced into hostilities or situations pursuant to the provisions of 
the War Powers Resolution," This definition makes it clear ·that, absent a decla-
ration of war or the introduction of United States Armed Forces pursuant ,to the , 
War Powers Resolution, the killing of.foreign officials is a criminal offense. 
[insert discussion of paramilitary aspec!_/ 
In the course of our hearings, some witnesses, while st"rongly condemning 
assassination, asked.whether, as a matter of theory, assassination should absolutely 
be ruled· out .in .a time· of truly unusual national emergency. Adolf Hitler was 
cited as: an e.xample. Of course, the c~ses with which we were concerned w:ere· not. 
of that character •. !'._/ In a grave emergency, the President has a limited ·power t.o 
act, .not in violation of the law, but in accord with.his own responsibilities 
under the Constitution to defend the Nation. As the Supreme Court has declared,; the 
Constitution "is not a suicide pact." Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez, 372 u,.s. 144:, 
160 (1963). 
Abraham Lincoln, in an unprecedented emergency, claimed unprecedented 
power hased on the need to preserve the nati.o·n: 
..• my oath to preserve the Constitution·to the best of 
my ability, imposed upon me the duty of preserving, by 
every indispensable means, that government -- that 
natio9· -- of which t-hat Constitution was the organic law. 
Was it possible to lose the nation, and yet preserve the 
Constitution? By general.law life and limb must be pro­
tecte·ct; yet often a limb must be amputated to save a life; 
but a life is never wisely given to save a limb. I felt 
that measures, otherwise unconstitutional, migl1t become 
lawful, by becoming indispensable to the preservation o[ 
the Co.nstitution, through the preservation of the nation 
.... • The Complete Works of Ab.rahani Lincoln, Vol, X, 
pp. 65-66 (Nicolay and Hay, Eds. 1894). 
_:/Indeed, in the only si.tuation of true national crisis·--. the Cuban missile 
crisis -- assassination was not even considered. 
mt 5095~ Docid:32423525 Page 207 
