87D 
D. 
[ 
[ 
SECURITY INVESTIGATIC 
·• IlNESTIGATIONS OF INDIVIDUALS - POLICY AND OBJECTIVES 
1. Definitions 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Following organizations are examples of "basic revolutionary 
organiza.tions. 11 
a. Communist Party, USA 
b. Socialist Workers Party 
o. Progressive Labor Party 
d. Proletarian Party of America 
e. liationalist Party of Puerto· Rico 
f. Revolutionary Union 
Black nationalist extremists and members of Puerto Rican nationalist 
groups and Puerto Rican subversive proindependence groups, although 
technically not members of basic revolutionary organizations, should 
be investigated under same rules. (See section 122, volume IV, of 
this manual.) 
FBI responsibility , 
To conduct thorough investigations into background and activities of 
all persons in U. S. and Puerto Rico who are dangerous or potentially 
dangerous to internal security. Each SAC is ·responsible for inve·sti·­
gation of persons in his area who, because of membership or affiliation 
with basic revolutionary organizations or other Marxist revolutionary 
organizations including splinter groups, may be potentially dangerous. 
P.urposas of investigation 
a. Determination of dangerousness 
To determine identity, whereabouts, ang. activi tie~-· of all individuals 
in U.S. and Puerto Rico who, because of their membership in, activi~y 
in, or association with one or more revolutionary groups or related. 
groups, are dangerous or potentially dangerous to internal security; 
bollection of sufficient information concerning their iubversive ac­
tivities to·[intelligently evaluate extent of investigation needed.] 
b. Determination of violations of Federal statutes 
To determine identity, whereabouts, and activities of all individuals 
who have been or may be violating laws of U. S. • 
(1) Direct investigation to obtain admissible evidence to establish 
violation. 
(2) Be alert for violation of Federal statut~s relating to e~pionage, 
sabotage, and sedition. 
Individuals to be investigated 
Exercise sound judgment a:nd discretion in evalu,ating importll,nce and 
dangerousness of individuals or affiliates. Investigate activities 
of any individual falling within one or more of following[conditions] 
who does not come within restrictions on investigations listed under 
87D, item 5, below: • 
a. Membership in basic revolutionary orga~izations subsequent to 1-1-49 
b. Espousing line of revolutionary movements 
Espousal encompasses wide variety and range of activities. Actual 
membership in basic revolutionary organization is not prerequisite. 
Espousal may be expressed· by membership or active participation in 
subversive front groups. Open investiga~ion in every instance in 
which subject is actively engaged in affairs of subversive front 
organization in leadership capacity or by active participation 
in furtherance of aims and purposes of front organizations. Do 
not open on mere membership in front organization unless there is 
past membership at any time in basic revolutionary organization or 
other subversive derogatory information. 
c. Special training 
{1) Training in subversive movement abroad 
(2) Leadership training in basic revolutionary organization 
d. Military service 
(1} Service in Abraham Lincoln Brigade; membership in basic 
revolutionary organization not prerequisite 
{2) Service in military forces of any country, including u: S. 
armed forces, whenever individual has ever been member of 
basic revolutionary organization 
18 
4-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1916 
.( 
i 
I I j 
l . ! 
I 
