( 
{ ., 
[.' 
[ 
SECT:COU .107 • 'SECUH.J:'J!Y Im'ORM.A.HTS .urn 
• 
C01H'ID , 1I AI, 
• 
SOlJRCI~:.: 107M 
4. Subfile:; 
a. A subfile is req,liroa on each inforrnllnt \·rho submits statewents, written 
or or::-,1, exoe:p-t in cspiont1;.:e or foreign nationality 11i:1·l:ter::; where a 
subfile is necessary only in those inctanocs involving poosible 
prosecution, The originRl of each statement, whether personally 
wri ttcn by the informant or furnished orally anc1 rea.:.c·ea to writing 
by contacting A~ent, sho11ld. be filed. in this :rnbfiJ.e. • BxPcute<:t form 
FD-306 or :-, channelizing memorirndum containing ?..11- a.pplici,ble items 
set forth on form :F'IT-306 should be stapletl to ·the original of each 
such statement. 
b, Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for secure 
filing, but care mu1;-i; be taken to prevent obliter.?.tion of any portion 
of statements or notations thereon. 
5. Channelization 
Excerpts from the informant's statement are to be included. in the regular 
inves-tigat:i.ve c::,se r1:;port v;l1en information of ·value :i.s submitted.. Form 
FD-306 r,rn.y be m::ed to clii:seminate this information to the ca&e fi1e :i.n 
lieu of a cha.r.nelizing mzmorandum if desired. If so \tsed., pre1,are copies 
of FTJ--306 o,s needed for dissemination and staple one copy to r:ach copy 
of the informant's sta ternent being channeliz·e<l. Channeliza.-"Gion should be 
noted on origh1al 1i'D-30G and. on aJ.l copies under "Remarks. 11 
6. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of f.ollowing submission of reports 
in security cases 
For instructions concerning the destruction of channelizing memoranda 
in security cases following submission of reports, see[Manual of Rules 
and Regulations.] 
7, Dissemination of information 
Infprmation submittc~ by informants, potential informants, confidential 
sources, or sources of information should be reported to ·the Bureau and 
interested offices ~-nd other agencies whenev-er necessary by the appro­
pr:i.ate mc:>.n s of corrununioation under captions showing the subject matter 
of the information. 
8. Correspondence 
Correspond.ence su.brni tted , • security informant and potential security 
info1·mant matters s:!rnuld strictly limited to the ad•·,inistrative 
handling of the inform~rnt ~nd should not contain info-::- : ·i-,ion more prop­
erly furnished to the Burer,u under a substantive case _ '<)tion. 
9. - Maintenance of files 
a. All pending files on security informants shall be·maintained under 
lock and key under the personal supervision of the SAC, ASAC, or field 
supervisor as the informant indices are maintained and described in 
subsection K. 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may- be mid.ntained "in the open 
files section, provided there is no disclosure of the informant's 
id.entity on the statements. 
o. All informant files should be maintained in such a manner as to •·-:c:ure 
tha·l; all information fu:r-nished by a particular informant v1iJ.l _1:. 
immedi2.tely ava:i.labl, •;",:in the request of the Btu'ec>.u. 
a. In addition, these -~ . -··!:! should be maintained. in such a fashion ·:;:,•t 
the identities oi' th·: c:ases in which an informant has furnished 
competent evide.nce can be furnished immediately to the .Bureau by 
simply referring to the file of the informant and without the necessity 
of cond.ucting extensive research, 
10. Use of informant by Department - filing correspondence re 
From time to time, the Depcrtment expresses an interest in using a pa.rtic­
ular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witne&s, 
As a result, there will be correspondence showing ·this situntion between 
the Bureau and the field. Place copies of all such correspondence in 
the infor·mant I s file. Occasionally such correi:pondcnce r:1:;i.y be ·rolu­
minous and apply to more than one informant. In those cases; su.mmari;i:e 
the information concerning e?.ch particular infor:nant ana. place -the summary 
in the appropriate informant 1 s file. 
ll. Form FD-238 
Form m-238 (printed on pink paper) has been approved for use in security 
informant and potential security informant files. It is to be used in 
the nature of a table of contents or as an index to show where in the. 
file particular data can be found. This form is to : " kept as the top 
17 
4-18-62 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1412 
I ••I 
·1 
I 
l 
