l 
• \ 
( 
,[ 
[ 
[ 
·-... -..... 
( b) 
87D· 
IV. Changes, additions, and deletions of data appearing in 
section A of reserve index cards 
(A) Changes in data appearing on section A reserve 
index cards should be submitted to the Bure~u by 
form lt'D-122a . 
. (B) Deletions from section A" of the reserve index 
should be recommended by lotter. The lotter should 
set forth the basis for the recommendation. 
(c) Changes in office of origin are to be handled by 
submission of form FD-128a. Forward section A 
cards to new office of origin. 
Section B 
I. This section is to contain the names of all oth~r indi­
viduals included in the reserve index. This section 
is to be maintained only in the field office. 
II. Changes in office of 9rigin are to be handled by sub­
mission of form FD-128a. Forward section B cards to 
new office of ori~in. 
(4) Content 
(a) Each ca.rd in section A and section B should contain-, as 
a. minimum, the following: 
I. Name and aliases 
II. Race 
III. Sex 
IV. Organizational affiliation or nationalistic tendency 
V. Citizenship· 
V:I. Residence 
VII. Employment 
VIII. Birth data 
IX. Office file number 
[X. The letters «ss« if dissemination has been made t~ 
Secret Service in accordance with instructions in 
section 83K, item 2, volume III, of this man~al] 
(b) In addition, membership and pcsition or association in a. 
subversive group or groups, toiether with the source and 
date of the information, may be added. 
(5) Removal and deletion o~ cards 
(a) Destroy cards on ,.ndi vi duals who subsequently become security 
informants or 3ources or who subs_eq~ently become subjects 
of security index cards. 
(b) Advise the Bureau of the destruction only in the o.ase of 
section .A cards. _.· .· .•• , .. , ... 
Security index 
(1) Purpose 
• (a} Security index cards are prepared and maintained by the 
·Bureau to serve as operational guide for apprehension of 
persons deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous to.the 
internal security of the country in the event of a national 
emergencyo . 
(b) It shall contain the names of all : ':'l'Sons who have been 
determined through investigation tt- be dangerous or poten-
. tially dangerous because of their membership in or affilia:l;i-on 
with or espousal of doctrines of basic revoluttonary organ-
izations and/or front organizatio11s and who will be • 
apprehended upon receipt of i~structions from the Attorney 
Generalc 
(c) It shall include subjects of espionage 
any other type of Bureau investigation 
activities bring them within the scope 
criteria., 
investiga_tions and 
provided their 
of the security i?de~ 
(d) Action shall be taken against individuals included in.the 
security index only upon authprization of warrants of 
arrest by the Attorney General. However, in preparing and 
maintaining the security index, to all practical effects, 
the Bureau is making the decision as to those persons w~o will 
be apprehend~d in the event of an emergency, inasmuch as the 
Attorney General has advised that he does cot have funds or 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page £61 
43 
6-15-64 
' .... 
