2 
2. Was the Special Group, Mr. • Gray, or President EisenhOW'er aware that 
Assistant Secretary of State Rurottan was repJrted, on July 1, 1960, 
by the CIA Western Hemisphere Division Chief to have approved delivery 
of high-powered rifles with telescopic sights to Trujillo opponents? 
(Exhibit at Tab YZ) 
3. When President Eisenhower was repJrted at the July 28, 1960, NSC meet­
ing to have said that "until Trujillo is eliminated ... ", was he 
referring.to an assassination? (Exhibit at Tab M) 
4. On January 12, 1961, the Special Group approved making available 
"small anns" to dissidents in the Dominican Republic. Were these 
assassination-type weapJns such as the rifles with telescopic sights 
·referred to in Exhibit at Tab YZ? (Exhibit at Tab X re January 12 
meeting) 
5. Did the attempts by Trujillo to assassinate President Betancourt of· 
Venezuela prompt the Spec:i.al Group to favor supplying aimS to Dominican 
dissidents who might try to assassinate Trujillo? (Exhibit at Tab K) 
LUMUMBA 
1. When Mr. Gray crnmented at the August 25, 1960, Special Group meeting 
that "his associates had_expressed extremely·strong feelings on the 
necessity for very straight-forward action", was he referring to 
• assassination? Do Mr. Dulles' reservations indicate that he was 
objecting to a suggested assassination? (Exhibit at Tab P) 
2. When Mr. Gray said at the Special Group meeting on September 8, 1960, 
that "he hoped that agency people in the field are fully aware of the 
top level feeling in Washington.that vigorous action IDuld not be 
amiss", was he referring to assassination of Lumumba? (Exhibit at 
Tab S) • 
CCM-1AND and CONTROL 
What was the com:nand and control system for covert action operations 
in the Eisenhower .Adm.i.nistration? 
Pertinent Relationships 
President Eisenhower 
DCI Allen Dulles 
DDP Richard Bissell 
NW 50955 ·.Docld: 324234~ Pag_e .. 16 _-
Gray was the President's liaison to the 
intelligence conmmity and the National 
Security Council (including .the Special 
Group). 
Gray rret with Dulles in the Special Group. 
Gray knew Bissell well. Bissell initiated 
the CIA-Gambling Syndicate plot to assassinate 
Castro and the Executive Action capability. 
FB/RKK 
7/8/75 
,..,.,. - . 'I, • 
~ 
i- . 
-
