SECRET 
6. The guerrillas committed themselves to 
field operations prematurely in 1962 and, denied 
support or sympathy by the peasantry who are strongly 
pro-Betancourt, were rounded up or dispersed. A 
total of 139 were tried by special military courts 
last fall following the Puerto Cabello and Carupano 
revolts. More than 110 were given substantial prison 
sentences. Four at the most are believed to have been 
in Cuba long enough to receive training. 
7. Altogether there have been an estimated 1,000 
to 1,500 arrests since the beginning of 1962, but there 
have been no trials or jail sentences other than those 
of the guerrillas mentioned above. All others were 
held for varying lengths of time, most of them for less 
than 90 days. Most of those arrested have been 're­
leased either for lack of evidence, or by civil judges 
who are generally either inefficient or open to cor­
ruption. Possibly 50 of those arrested may have re­
ceived some training in Cuba, but government inter­
rogators have so far been unable to obtain any admis­
sion of Cuban training, and no travel records are 
maintained which would give leads for such interroga­
tion. 
8. The number of incidents leading to arrests 
are estimated at 250. The principal incidents have 
been the uprisings of the Puerto Cabello and Carupano 
garrisons; the October/November sabotage of the Lake . 
Maracaibo oilfields; the hijacking of the freighter 
Anzoategui in February and the earlier theft of five 
French paintings from the Museum of Fine Arts; burning 
of the Sears-Roebuck warehouse and dynamiting of high­
way bridges in February; pipeline sabotage in March; 
the recent capture of two PCV paramilitary groups; 
a bank robbery in February by men wearing the armband 
of the Communist "Armed Forces of National Libera­
tion" (FALN); and the indiscriminate shooting in 
Caracas in January .and February in the wave of ter­
rorism designed to deter Betancourt's visit to 
Washington. 
9. The majority of the Communist-directed inci­
dents have been carried out by members of the PCV 
paramilitary groups who in general have not them­
selves had Cuban training, but are trained and di­
rected by instructors who have in turn been trained 
in Cuba and in some cases in Communist China. 
-39-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32283208 Page 43 
