r I .. 
I\ 
~ 
I ~ 
,; 
l1 
1 ( 
I' 
l i 
:§_ 
}' 
'1 
}! 
I 
1
1 . 
i\ 
. 
i 
r 
I' i, 
l' 
I ( 
~ 
}' 
{ 
t r g 
!! 
Ii 
K. 
' [ 
SECTION 107. SECU~ITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFIDENTJ.AL SOURCES. 107~ 
INFORY..ANT FILES 
1. Opening 
a. When active imrestigation is initiated regarding potential inf'ormant 
or confidential source who is not subject of security-type file,. 
open 134 file. . 
b. If individual ·is subject of security case and after being interviewed 
appears to have potential as informant, open separate 134 file to 
follow informant development. In espionage and foreign nationality 
matters,. existing file may be used if this is practical. 
c. Maintain individual files on all active informants as pending actiye· 
files. 
2. Monthly administrative report 
Include files on potential informants and informants in tabulations and 
calculations of delinquencies in monthly administrative report. 
3. Assignment and tickler cards 
Maintain assignment and tickler cards, ·but do not show true name of 
informant,[potential informant, panel source or confidential source] 
on such cards. 
4. Subfiles 
a. Subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where 
subfile is necessary only in those instances involving possible 
prosecution. File in this subfile original of each statement, 
whether personally v1ri tten by informant or furnished orally and 
redu~ed to writing by contacting Agent. Staple executed form FD-306 
or channelizing memorandum containin~ all applicable items on form 
FD-306 to original of each such statement. 
b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any 
portion of statements or notations thereon. 
5. Channelization 
Include excerpts from informant's statement in regular investigative 
case report when information of value is submitxed. Form FD-306 may be 
used to disseminate this information to case f.ile in lieu of channelizing 
memorandum if desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed ~or 
channelization and staple one copy to each copy ·of informant's state-
ment being channelized. Channelization should be noted on original 
FD-306 and all copies. • 
6. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of 
See Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
·7. Correspondence 
Correspondence in security informant and potential security informant 
matters should be strictly limited to administrative handling of informant. 
and should not contain information more properly furnished under. sub­
stantive case caption. 
8. l"f.aintenance of files 
a. Maintain all symbol number informant files, pending and closed, 
under lock and key under personal supervision of SAC, ASAC, field 
supervisor, or responsible employee designated by SAC. 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in open 
files section, provided there is no disclosure of informant's 
identity on statements. 
c. Maintain informant files so that all information furnished by in­
formant will be immediately available when needed. 
d. In addition, maintain these files so identities of cases in which an 
informant has furnished competent evidence can be obtained immediately by 
simply referring to file of informant .and without extensive research. 
Docld:32989529 1740 
13 
6-14-71 
