! 
f,:~··;:· 
. Rocca referred to an SB study, direited by Lee Wigren and con-
ducted by Virginia Valpi which compared the Oswald case to other U.S. 
defectors and their wives. :SB concluded Oswald was not given special 
handling by the KGB.· • Rocca maintains Oswald was given special treat­
ment. He believes Oswald's relationship with the "Red Cross" (from 
which Oswald received finan9ial assistance) and the Red Cross' relation­
ship with the KGB should be,;;clarified. 
•I 
Rocca also finds it peculiar that Marina married Oswald since 
Marina's uncle was KGB. Rocca said that Oswald was the only defector 
who married someone with a KGB connection of that kind. Rocca said that 
the CIA developed this information after the assassination. 
Rocca described Minsk as "not an unsensitive section" of Russia 
and added that Oswald was the only American defector in Minsk, a white 
Russian area. 
I 
Rocca commented on Oswald's. surprise visit to the American Em­
bassy in J1oscow by saying that "people don't do that kind of thing 
in Russia,._,r • • I · ·· . · 
i • • 
Rocca believes Oswald's Soviet diary is bona fide. Rocca ad­
mitted that although there are perceptible changes in the quality 
of Oswald's written material, Oswalds 
I 
mentality seemed conducive . 
to periods of attention to thoroughness and detail. 
4. Alleged Debriefing of Oswald 
Rocca did not have any knowledge of an alleged debriefing of 
Oswald in New York City by the DCD. Rocca said that if a debrie.fing 
report existed; it would have been distributed in 00 series (overt 
operations) of the DDI (now DDO). Rocca also noted that a debriefing 
report would not have been filed in the Oswald 201. Rocca noted that 
a Dr. Froyn (phonetic) supeivised DDI records. Rocca also said that 
Traveler's Aid was a legiti~ate charitable organization which had no 
ties with the CIA. 
5. Oswald- and Mexico City 
Rocca said that Chief, WR could clarify aspects of technical. 
• operations on Cuban and Soviet Embassies. Rocca said that David 
Ph.illips organized the technical surveillance. 
_/ 
Although the Cuban Embassy was officially closed on September 
28, Rocca found nothing unusual about Oswald's visit there and meeting 
Silvi Duran, Cuban consulate employee. • 
I • 
Rocca emphasized that 'Oswald's activities in Mexico City were 
the responsibility of the FBI. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 575 
