( 
.( 
( 
[ 
[ 
NW 81B21. 
(2) 
{3) 
87-D 
agency ~esponsible for such action. Forward such data to 
Bureau and include in next report submitted concerning 
individual in question. Where no investigation has been 
conducted by Bureau and there is no case on individual 
being denied clearance, give consideration to opening a 
security investigation if information received from 
intelligehce agency warrants such action. 
Inclusion in security index 
In recommending key facility employee for inclusion in security 
index, FD-122 is to contain: · . 
(a} Key facility geographical reference number - • 
(b) Abbreviation for agency having secur~ty responsibility. 
-The Department of the Army has been designated ·agency having 
security responsibility for all key facilities. 
{c) Abbreviations for other age.,ncies known to have classified 
contracts with key facility. Interested agencies should be 
identified on FP-122-to assure proper dissemination ~f re­
·ports but will not appear on security index cards returned 
from Bureau. ' • 
(d) [Recommendation that individual be designated as priority I 
security index subject] 
If subject of existing security index card is found to have 
become employed in a key facility, FD-122 must be submitted to 
Bureau with above-required key facility data set "forth thereon. 
Case is then to be handled in a~cordance with instructions set 
forth below concerning key facility case.s .. 
Dissemination • 
Upon receipt of original complaint or allegation concerning key 
facility employee from source other than interested intelligence 
agency, a summary of complaint and information concerning indi­
vidual should be furnished immediately by letter to interested 
intelligence agency. Intelligence agency should then be advised 
whether a security investigation is being conducted of individual 
and, if investigation is being conducted, that copies of reports 
will be furnished upon completion of investigation. Letter to 
intelligence agency should clearly point out that information is 
unsubstantiated and has not been verified through investigation 
by FBI. 
In"addition to disseminating to intereated'intelligence agencies 
information of a derogatory security nature developed concerning 
persons employed at facilities holding classified contracts~_with 
exception of classified contracts with Atomic Energy Commission, 
such information should be furnished to Chief, Defense Industrial 
Security Clearance Office (DISCO), Defense Supply .Agency, Colum­
bus, Ohio, 43215, attention Chief, .Adjudication Division. In 
·each instance, advise interested intelligence agency that dissem­
i~ation has been made to DISCO. This dissemination is to include 
derogatory security information dsveloped concerning persons who 
may not be currently employed at such a facility but ~ho are 
known to be holders of an industrial security clearance. 
These instructions do not apply to allegations of espionage or 
those of such a confidential character as would not ordinarily 
be disseminated. Such information appearing to be of immediate 
interest to other intelligence agencies should be submitted to 
Bureau by most expeditious means, depending upon circumstances, 
with a request that Bureau consider advisability of •disseminating 
it. 
Dissemiu~te copies of each report to local representative of 
agency having security responsibility, as well as to local repre­
sentative of other int~lligence agencies known to have 
65 
•. 2-13-70 
