., 
c: 
( 
[ 
[ 
. [ 
[ 
. 13. 
.TION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGA'. .S ., 
d. Above also applies to Agent's notes taken during surveillances or 
concerning evidence otherwise obtained. 
87.E 
Interviews with subjects of security investigations 
a. Policy 
[(1)] No security investigation of an individual is to be closed 
unless subject. is included in ADEX or consideration given to 
interview. Bureau will not authorize cancellation of ADEX card 
for inactivity until subject has been interviewed or Dt.Creau 
advised why interview is inadvisable. 
[(2) With regard to subversive and revolutionary organizations, rank:­
and-f ile members and their counterparts in ·similar nom11e111bership 
groups may be interviewed on SAC authority; however, prior 
Bureau authority must be·obtained for interviews of subjects 
when circumstances indicate a delicate situation and a greater 
than usual risk involved,. such as nationally prominent individ­
uals, labor leaders and persons in educat'ional 1 mass media, 
religious or publishing fields. Prior Bureau authority is also 
required to interview those who have publicly disclosed or are 
likely to disclose to the mass media contacts by Bureau Agents 
for the purpose of placing the Bureau in a bad light by falsely 
charging harassment or who have misstated or are likely to 
misstate the facts concerning the interview for self-serving 
purposes. 
(3) Prior to interview, conduct informant, credit (identifying 
information only), arrest, and itidices checks on individual to 
be interviewed, determi11e employment, establish subject not 
en~loyed or connected with any sensitive area requiring Bureau 
authorization for an interview, and'prepare memorandum for SAC 
setting forth available facts. Each such interview must be 
personally approved by SAC. If subject not interviewed, 
closing communication must show reason for not interviewing. 
(4) Where prior Bureau authority is required, no report need be • 
submitted when requesting Bureau authority to interview subjecto] 
b., Purpose 
(1) When investigation is inconclusive, to clet·er~1ine subject I s 
syn1pathies and whether he continues to adhere to revolutionary 
doctrines 
(2) To develop information concerning activities of subject and his 
associates in subversive movement 
(3} To develop informants 
c • iDeleted ~ d. Dele~edi 
e. Dele-ced" 
27 
8-14-72 
. NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1887_ 
