13-00000 
the advice and guidance he had received from his principal 
advisers whom he considered professionals and experts • 
in their fields. He said he was beginning to have serious 
doubts that his own judgment had been wrong in a number 
of cases although he was the first to admit that he had been 
wrong in the past throughout his life at various times and 
was certainly no more immune than anyone else from 
making m1stakes. I got the distinct impression that he was 
mighty unhappy with some of the actions he has taken as a 
result of recommendations from State. I also got the feeling 
that from here on out he is much more liable to use his own 
intuition and prescience as to what should be done and what 
should not be done in the daily operations of his actions in 
the foreign policy field. 
e. Turning to more pleasant matters, the President 
noted that the dinner he had given for the Congressional 
Committee leadership had been a complete success and that 
he was going to repeat it again on the 23rd and the 30th. He 
had received nothing but highly favorable accolades from 
the people who had attended and many of them indicated it 
was the first time they had ever been in the White House and 
certainly the first time they had had an adequate briefing by 
the Administration leadership~ The President said that he 
had received a phone call saying that he should continue this 
and he was certainly going to do so. He had also been 
promised that at least in large measure as a result of this 
briefing he would have a tax bill reported out by Wednesday. 
The President then said we could do a lot better. He told 
Rusk and McNamara that they should take a nap in the after­
noon prior to these two dinners so they would be much 
fresher and more alert - - that they had done an A No. l job 
but not quite up to the caliber that they had put on for the 
labor leaders -- in his mind that performance could not have 
been better, The President said he had planned for the 
briefing to be twenty minutes and that instead it had lasted 
an hour. • He said that this was entirely too long and that 
Mr.' McCone alone had spoken for seventeen minutes. He 
