107N 
4. 
- 5 •• 
6 •. 
SECTION .107. SECURITY INFORl"'~TS ./..ND CONFIDE1'1 '1'IAL SOURCES 
) ) 
Fpur-rnonth evalua.n of informants not paid on B.au authority 
If the informant is not being paid on Bureau authorization, a communi­
cation must be transmitted to the Bureau every four months after the • 
date of designation containing the ~ame information set out above in 
subsection 3b except those items concerning payments. Recommendation 
of SJC regarding continuance of informant should also be set forth[UACB.] 
In espionage and foreign nation:ility cases comment is necessary regarding 
only those applicable items in subsection 3b. 
Receipts 
When pa"yments are made to anyone for information or assistance on security 
matters, either on the SAC1 s authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obtained in every in:c:t;.,.nce in which it is possible to do so, 
a, Receipts shon1d be of such a nature that -~hey will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce the receipts in evidence 
during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate to other 
documents or files. 
b. Receipts should clearly sho~i 
I
ll Date on which pc>.yment was made 
2 Period for which made when informant is paid ~n a period basis 
3 Total a.mount paid broken down into separate a.mounts for services 
or expenses where these items ::>.re pertinent 
(4) Name of Agent making payment 
(5) Signature of person receiving the money 
c. When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to the 
Bureau, they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, leaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contact l'lith the .Acco fastener pu,.."lch, The staples should be 
pla~ed in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on the 
receipt will not bo mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Care must 
be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clearly show 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary material 
contained in Bufiles. 
Income tax returns 
a.. Inform::mts who receive compensation for their serrices to the Bureat~ 
should be advised that such compensa·~ion must be reported as income 
when filing an income tax return. 
b. Since all informants are considered independent contractors, the income 
they receive from the Bureau is self-employment income but, since the 
Bure.au does not consider their activity as the carrying on of a t:c:-,,1c 
or business, they may consider dispensing with the filing of a schedule 
C as part of form 1040 if they so desire, 
o. The informant's own personal situatio~, howeYer, should be taken into 
consideration as he may receive income from other sources as an inde­
pendent contractor which vrould require the deduction of self-employ­
ment tax, regardless of any Bureau income he may receive, 
d. In considering the filing of a tax on self-employment income, such 
a return is based upop. net cat·nings from self-einp10yment of $400 
or more. If an informant receives les·s than $400 from the Bureau 
and has no other self-employment income, this r,1oney in any event 
is not subject to th,, self-employment tax. If the informant re­
ceives $4800 or more from outside employment nubject to Social 
Security tax, a.gain the s-elf-em-ployment tax requirements do not 
apply, 
e. Bureau income should be set forth under item 10 on page one of the 
Federal income tax roturn, form 1040, as "Other Income 11 and explained 
under schedule H(3} on page three of the return as income received 
from other sources for personal services rendered through a private 
enterprise or similar general"term applicable to informant's position 
and station in life. 
20 
5-12-61 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 
! 
' i 
! 
f 
I 
) 
! t 
i 
! 
' 
l I 
I I I 
I 
I • ! 
I 
