. ; SftREI 
9 
Betsy palmer 
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Fiies, Volumes. I - XVIII 
April 24, 1978 
Volume IX ..: January 1963 - July 1963 
1. Cable to Director rro{earacas,)ated. Feb. 22, 1963 
·' 
FRANCISCO SUAREZ QtJmONES vi.shes travel to Maimi to attem JURE rally 
24 February. In viev Ref B (WAVE 2462) info that SUa.rez communist ani also 
MRP member, DCM has asked i:f any info that Suarez va.s undercover agent :for 
MRP or if he may be double agent working for Castro. 
2. Confidential Controlled Dissem. dated 3 June 1963 
Title: Plan o:f Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the 
Central Intelligence Agency· 
On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros reported. on meeting of JURE exec. board 
in his home attended by, among others, Antonio Arias. During meeting, 
Cisneros said it va.s mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a 
trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with regard 
to Cuba and if possible infiltrate this man into Cuba. Cisneros also said 
JURE planning leaflet drop into Cuba vhich will include such matters as Ray's 
Manifesto against the U.S. Government and. against the CIA . 
.:)(:-3• Cabl.e to Director frol£aris,)dated 19 June 1963 #7727Z 
Ray in Paris rcontaceed by Jervay .) . Bay driven to airport by Alberto 
Baez v.i.th vhom'!iay spent much time and vho seems to be closest to Ray 
among his contacts in Paris .. Ray in Paris and Brussels for purpose of 
Ctur1ng Franqui and Arcos to agents in place, or defection. Also Cabrera • .::r 
Ray convinced Cubans here disillusioned with Castro.( Asks for update of .J 
st of personnel and addresses o:f all Cuban embassies in Europe to be :]. 
passed to him in San Juan a.nctl)RUMB:rn 6 in Paris. Wants to be trained in 
hort wa-ye system between hims .. elf ~~JWMBLE 6 and station felt these 
-were good ideas and coul.d be done. • • ~- • 
4. Memo for the Record from .Alf'onso Rodreguez, dated 19 June 1963 
subject: Manolo Ray 
Ray's attitude towards CIA - :feels that the Agency has in the past purposely 
and actively attempted to destroy him as a political leader and has proo~ 
of at least one CIA officer plotted with certain MRP officials to remove him 
from the Mrp as a condition for CIA assistance to that organization.· 
Ray cannot be overlooked in the struggle for Cuban :freedom. "-- of all the 
Cubans I have met, he is the :most purposeful, methodical, as veil as the most 
experienced clandestine operator •. " 
5. Confidential Controlled Dissem. dated 27 June 1963 
Re: Creation of an Intelligence Corps within the JUT's 
~eliable information from former Rebel Army member (F) active in clandestine 
movements. JURE meeting ~about 30 March 1963 at home of journalist 
Antonio Arias said JURE national executive board had created an Intelligence 
Corps \l'ith JURE vhose function vas to infiltrate JURE memoers into various 
