• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
Re: Senstudy 75 
62-116395 
• 
2. Was there a memorandum concerning the 
expansion of the AI to include individuals of local 
prominence? (Memorandum of G. c. Moore to Mr. w. c. 
Sullivan dated 11/22/67 requested approval of an SAC 
letter for expanding the AI to include local leaders as 
well as national leaders involved in racial disorders.) 
3. Were individuals included on both the AI and 
the SI and, if so, wasn't this a duplication of effort? 
(Individuals were included on both the AI and the SI; 
however, this was not necessarily a duplication of effort 
inasmuch as the SI was to be utilized in the apprehension 
and detention of individuals considered dangerous and the 
AI was an administrative aid to follow the activities and 
movement of individuals attempting to cause racial 
disorders . ) 
4. When did the SI become automated and was the lf 
Reserve Index (RI) ever automated? (The SI became automated 
during the early 1950s and was updated throughout the years 
with the advancement of computer technology and purchase 
by the Bureau of more advanced computers. Following 
discontinuance of the SI the ADEX was continued in the 
computer systems in an "off-line" manner. !'.Che RI-A -
was placed on automatic data processing (ADP) equipment 
the same as the SI. RI-B was maintained at the field 
level only and was never placed in the ADP equipment.) 
5. Has the Bureau's copy of the Attorney General's 
portfolio concerning the Emergency Detention Program (EDP) 
been returned? (One copy of the Attorney General's 
portfolio concerning the EDP has been located and is 
currently maintained in the Security Informant Unit of 
the IS-2 Section, INTD.) 
6. Who were the Bureau individuals who 
(a) maintained the Attorney General's portfolio during 
1968 and (b) involved with the EDP during the 1940s? 
(The following individuals were identified through 
review of pertinent communications during time per.~od 
in question: (a) 1968 - c. D. Brennan, P. F. Enlow, 
T. P. Rosack; (b) 1946-D. M. Ladd, J.C. Strickland; 
1948-Lish Whitson, W. H. Winterrowd, J. w. Yeagley. 
- 3 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989£53 Page 289 
