6J - K PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS,· PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS. 
, 
reierred to Bure~u by local law enforcement agencies or where Bureau ( 
[ 
[ 
fugitives are taken into custody by loca·l law enforcement officers. 
They should also be advised of violations ~f local·laws coming to the 
attention of the FBI. 
b •. Visits to Washington 
When the field requests special courtesies be afforded certain. indi­
viduals, including law enforcement officers, coming to Washington, D. C., 
the communication so advising the Bureau shall contain biographical 
data and a brief surMnary of information in the field of~ice files con­
cerning the visitor. 
When law enforcement executives are contemplating a visit to the Bureau 
at Washington, D. C., ask them to call at the office of the[head of 
the]Training Division, Room[5234,]Justice Building. 
c·. Letters of commendation, congratulations, appre o.iation, and 
condolence • 
When letters of commendation, congratulations, appreciation, or 
condolence from the Director are recommended by the field, such 
recommendations should be submitted promptly. They should include 
the specific facts on whi·ch the recommen<1:ati.on is based, full identi­
fying data and address of the citizen, and the result ~fa search of 
the field office indices concerning the citizen. In connection with 
the election of officers of police associations at conventions cover­
ing more than one field division territory, th·e field division in 
whose territory the convention was physically held is responsible for 
submitting any recommendations for letters of congratulati.ons. The 
office submitting such request should summarize briefly the relations 
with these officers, incorporating any .derogatory data which might 
preclude such letters. Inasmuch as the recommending office is not 
likely to possess all data, ·pertinent other field divisions should 
submit:a brief, ·supplementai summary concerning officers recommendea 
fo~ letters who.reside in their territory. 
4.• Inquiries concerning status .of Bureau cases 
When a state official has expressed interest in the prosecutive status 
of a Bureau case, for a legitimate reason, such as deferment of ~tate 
prosecution pending the outcome of the Federal case, insure that such 
official is kept appropriately advised, including the final outcome 
of the matter. 
5. U. s. Cabinet officers, Senators, and Congressmen 
If an SAC receives an inquiry from a Cabinet officer or U. s. Senator or 
Congressman concerning an official matter, it should be brought to the 
Bureau's attention immediately. 
K. SOURCES OF INFORMATION 
Definition 
An individual, organization, or concern willingly furnishing information to em­
ployees frequently enough to justify makini a record where the source need not 
·be protected. If occasionally the source must be protected, this may be done. 
If sources must be constantly concealed, they become informants or confidential 
sources and must be handled as such. 
1. Index • 
Index card (3 by 5 inches) must be made up to contain: 
ao Names 
b. Addresses 
c. Organization or concern 
do Type of information furnished 
e. Date of development 
\ NV!( 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 340 
6 
10-29-62 
-------------
I 
I 
' 
·' 
