14-00000 
,I' 
ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY 
OIM 
EMPLOYEE Ill BULLETIN 
OIM EB No. 02-98 
22July 1998 
FINAL DOCUMENT SEARCH TO ASSURE COMPLIANCE WITH "PRESIDENT JOHN 
F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992
11 
(JFK Acn 
FROM: George J. Tenet 
Director of Central Intelligence 
1. (U) As you know, the JFK Assassination Records Review Board (Board) is completing 
its task of overseeing the search and declassification of all Federal government records relating to 
the assassination bf President John F. Kennedy by 30 September 1998. The Board and we want 
to do everything possible to place before the Anierican people the full story as reflected in 
government and other records. 
2. (U) The Agency has been working on this effort since 1992 and has searched all of the 
obvious databases. We want to make certain that we have left no stone unturned and that no 
employee has any records that might possibly be considered relevant to the assassination­
including any records created [or received] after 1992. The ~ference to 1992 is largely intended 
to encompass documents which may have come into our hands since the collapse of the Soviet 
Union and Warsaw Pact. 
3. (AIUO) In accordance with the provisions of the JFK Act, I hereby direct all CIA 
personnel to consider documents in their possession or with which they are familiar that-might 
. have relevance to the Board's review and that might not have been found in the course of 
electronic or manual searches over the past six years. Representatives of the Historical Review 
Program believe that if such documents do exist they would, most likely, be found in files that 
would not be generally related to the assassination or that would not be "logical" areas for 
systematic searches. These include worlcip.g paper f'tles of smaller databases related to countries 
not normally associated with the assassination. Relevant documents can be in the f onn of papers, 
photographs, recordings, tapes, or other media, and can include documents "related to the 
assassination," such as later investigations, key topics/events within the Oswald/JFK Story, or 
material related to key figures-such as Nosenko. 
