SECRET 
-4-. 
Al.most all Montagnard refugees are at l~ast temporarily resettl~ and re­
ceiVing minimum food, shelf.er and security. 
The Embassy comments that lihile this information somewhat reduces 
the urgency ct the problem, it does not change the problem's •gnitude or 
importance. Difficulties stemming f~om the abasi::ace ot a wll d1rect~d, 
national Montagnard :rel1et program, limted relief' resources, am the Viet­
namese prejudice ag&aiDSt the Hontagnard continue. But the prilCICipal and 
most effllCouragirag aspect is the fact that the Montagn.ard have fied the VC 
pnssures and more may do so. 
Stra~c ll!amlet Pro~. 'Jfhe second ten day training course tor 
490 strategicet cadres wsnaugurated by Ngo dinh Nhu 1n SaigO!ll July 2. 
. Future Plans. According to CAS, General-Dinh 8s plan for the paci-
fication of· Binii Dinh province has been approved by Diem am will soon be 
presented to the ~ssy. The First Corps Commander is also reportedly de~ 
veloping plans tor two provinces in his area; these plans are said to stem 
from the U.S. interest and support tor Hai Yen. 
• lS. Provide Increased Technical Assistance. 
Vill.se Radios. As of July b, 817 of the planned 2$00 village 
radios ware inslled and operating. Tests of radios for use on trains • 
were started. 
Defoliation. The Embassy has proposed a test of the effectiveness 
of defoliants against ~C food patches in the-mountainous area of Operation 
Hai Yen. Governor Harriman .opposes the use of defoliants on food crops be0 
cause of the effect on Asian opinion., Decision and action vil.l be delayed 
until the Governor I s return from Geneva. • 
20. Integrate Economic Measures with Counterinsurgency Bf.fort. 
Agricultural Extension. A pilot training program for agricultural 
efforts associated vith counterinsurgency plans opened July 3 in Qui Nhon. 
One hundred farmers will ·study fuming and. stock raising methods tmo one 
month, including the .use ot fertilizers and pesticides. • 
Provincial Hospitals. Construction of tour of the _2S planned 
hospital s~gical suites began on schedule. 
Anti~Rat Profliam. The USOM-supported rat destruction campaign vaa 
carried out in ten norliern provinces June 12-22, resulting in the destruction 
of an estimated 15-20 million rats or 20,000 per .. village. 
2S. Publicize the War Within Viet-Nam and Intsrnationally_~ ::~_ 
Viet,c.Nam Photo Service. USIS Saigon 119 sending ·out a weekly packet 
of photos designed to enlist third country interest and support for the OVN 
SECRET 
