SEGRET/SENSITIVE - 4 -
2. 
3. 
b. Project CAPUSTO (8 Ball): 
was surveillcd. 
Employee associating with former defector 
c. Project T00!CAT: An associate of CAPUSTO was surveilled. 
:d. Project MONEY: A former employee planning to attend the SALT talks 
with his new boss was survcilled. 
e. Project SIESTA: Surveillance on a former employee and the suspected 
Castro agent she was living with. 
f. Project PINEi,PPLE: Surveillance of a former employee living above his 
means. Washington Field Office surveilled outside D.C. Anderson 
Associates surveilled in D.C. and at subject's Arlington home. Wash­
ington Field Office did not participate in any break-in of subject's 
apartment. 
g. Project A~DS: Fonner employee surveilled to Champaign, Illinois. 
h. Project PIXIE: (last job): Two employees and son of another survcilled 
for suspected drug use and/or sale. 
i. Project PARr'\f~ON: Informer ,d10 reported threat against Director Helms 
and Vice Pre:;iJ.ent Agne1y surveillcd in New York and Dctroi t. 
j. ~Vd1CI-IETTI: Former employee thrca tcning to publish classified ma tcrial 
(which he co',.ld not have obtained during the course of his employn,ent) 
was survcill2d. Three cars were used in surveillance. No police cover. 
Surveillance of Ne1vsrnc~:_(to determine source of security leaks) 
a. !Jre111er knew that surveillance was to determine source 
b. 
t-iTulishing of classified information. Mr. Bre111er ques­
tioned his S'.1perioT (John Hutchinson) about the case. He wondered why 
the FBI was not involved and understood that the FBI didn't 
touch the case (rumorL Along with 
tii!Q"g1;m~i,lt~t4;iet and "'-"-.....'---C-""'-_J-,11ere s urvci 11 ed. 
Bre1·:er also questioned this surveillance, but not 
.was relatively unknown. Further, he really didn't 
reason why«eilrfwas being surveilled until later. 
Other Surveillances 
a. A nephew of an assistant to Director McCone was surveilled after he 
went berserk and threatened to go to the Russians. He was surveilled 
for two days. 
SECRET/SG!SITIVE 
NW 50955 Do•cld: 32203834 Page 9 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I • 
I 
