Volume XII - Man:ue.1 Ray 
Page 2 
~CHET Betsy Palmer 
111J.O840 
6. Cable to DIR :from JMWAVE, dtd 31 Jan 64 - Article in Miami HerJ'l.d about 
the discovery of arms cache in Puerto Rico confirms accuracy of(AJntaup/c .., 
reporting that Ray involved in robbery U.S. Military installation c:!,.00. tlJB.r 
Governor Marin is misleading FBI investigation. WAVE believes the C-3 
explosive f'oun:l in cache was provided. Ray by WAVE as directed by Hdqtrs, 
but WAVE did not provide any weapons. WAVE vill tell loaal. FBI that they 
knov nothing regarding backgroun:l of' cache discovery and assume Hdqtrs vill 
coordinate case at Wash.D.C. level vi.th FBI. 
7. • Intelligence Information Cable, dated 4 Feb. 1964 - reliable source 
says RAY expected. in Caracas, Venezuela middle of February 1964 to establish 
a guerrilla training base for JURE in venezuel.a. Will be a regional center 
used by JBRE members in Venezuela and Panama.· (Likely that if Ray succeeds 
in setting up camp, it \lill be \lith tacit consent of Betancourt government. 
Field Comment). Ray claims he vill be inside CUba by 20 May 1964. . . 
8.' Cable to DIR framfyanama Citi)dated 9 Feb 1964 .states JOSE MARIA PUENTE 
BLANCO, Panamanian/Cu~, DOB 17 July 1930, Havana, Cuba, 1:eft P~ City 
for Caracas on 8 Feb. He is possible Castro agent an:VP~nama Cit~w~uld 
appreciate i.nformation re his activities in Caracas allrfor subsequent travel. 
Memo for the Record, dtd 12 Feb 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez 
Subject: Meeting wi t~ANG/1 .:J 
EU:, according to Ray, "W'a.S nov disolved and became a part of JURE on 17 Jan. 
1964. This brings to JURE the best former rebel anny officers in exile and 
should give JURE a mill tary background and support se<D nd to none in the. 
exile community. 
••··. ·• ••• Comments: r ~.AfJP /2}-eports have indicated Cisneros activities am statements 
_ are directea.. agains't the CIA. Rodriguez discussesl'Am~up/2 i)reporting with 
: r"'Tony Sforza1and. Warren Frank. If Cisneros is in l'a.c't directing a program 
• L..of denigration against the CIA, suggest agency follov the activities of 
Dionisio Suarez Esquival, vho reportedly has been selected to carry out such 
a program in various Latin .American univerities. 
' 10.'. : Cable to DIR frodFana..'":la City J dated 22 Feb. 19611. T}:e Plrr.'l'c· IT~ 3L/J!CO 
.. · brothers have been ur:rer some suspicion since their arrival in BACYjollo"1ing 
·•. their release from Cuban prison as resu1 t of intervention of Tne King. 
Part of sus~icion is a result of activities of their brother, Jorge, still 
.in CUba. 
SECRET 
