• • 
irrelevant, Mr. <E¾itenstein was told by me that I felt it was high time 
the questioners quit "beating around the bush" and came to the _point by 
asking Miss Gandy if she had ever destroyed any official and 
confidential files. Mr. Gitenstein replied they had a discrepancy 
concerning the O and C files in that a reliable source had reported 
that Mr. Mark Felt had five two-drawer cabinets marked "0 and C Files" 
in his office. Miss Gandy on the other hand told Mr. Gitenstein in 
response to a question that she had turned over to Mr. Felt after 
Mr. Hoover's death, as she recollected, one and one-half draweraand 
possibly two drawers. of O and C files. I explained to Mr. Gitenstein 
that Miss Gandy would have no way of knowing what files Mr. Felt had 
in his office and if there was a discrepancy the person to resolve the 
discrepancy was Mr. Felt who Mr. Gitenstein had told me previously 
had been interviewed by him and had been cooperative. I had previoµsly 
explained to Mr. Gitenstein in response to qm stions he asked me when I 
appeared before the Staff that at the time Mr. William C. Sullivan had 
furnished the data of the 17 White House telephone taps to MI! . Mardian in 
the Internal Security Division of the Department that Mr. Hoover had 
instructed that any Assistant Director or Bureau official who had any 
files in his office he considered to be confidential and relating to the 
Bureau's work were to be immediately transferred to Mr. Felt and 
a memorandum prepared concerning exactly .what was transferred to 
Mr. Felt. I told Mr. Gitenstein I had no idea how many files Mr. Felt 
collected as a result of Mr. Hoover's instructions. It is interesting to 
note that I was not asked at any time whether I 1:Rd turned over any files -
to Mr. Felt in connection with Mr. Hoover's instructions. 
(10) Miss Gandy was asked whether there were any files: 
✓of Mr. Hoover's personal correspondence in Mr. Hoover's former hmm 
at the present time. Miss Gandy replied no. • 
(11) At some point during tp.e interview a reference was 
made to the confidential trash baskets maintained in the Buie au, to wit, 
the trash baskets with the painted rim,/on top. Mr. Epstein wanted to 
know if a log was maintained of items placed in the confidential trash 
baskets for destruction. I informed him it W>uld be ridiculous to think 
. ✓ that such a log could be maintained and he was advised exactly bow 
confidential trash is destroyed in the Bureau. He was also informed of 
~WM326 
the Bureau files that were scattered over the streets of Southwest Washington 
as a result of the Department of Justice engaging in destruction of some of 
their files. This reference permitted an immediate termination of any 
questions along the lines of the destruction of confidential trash. 
-4-
Docld:32989fi.11 Page 123 
