13-00000 
"APR 15 '97 04:56PM USGOVERNMENT 
SECRET 
Subject: CIA Employees 
important for the Review Board to reconsider the laws which 
protect clas~ified information, because they clearly reflect 
a larger US Government policy to protect covert CIA 
employees from disclosure. 
7. . (U) By Executive order and statute, the President 
and Congr_ess have made the Director o! Central Intelligence 
responsible for protecting sources of intelligence. In his 
Directive of 22 January 1946 that established the Central 
Intelli$'ence Group, President Truman made the DCI 
responsible for protecting sources.- With the establishment 
of CIA, Congress a:lso ·gave the DCI" this responsibility.. The 
National Security Act of 1947, Section 103'(d) (3), codified 
at 50 use §403(3) (c) (5), requires the DCI to .protect 
intelligence sources from unauthorized disclosure. In 
addition, §403(3) (d) (2) requires the DCI co ensure that 
risks to the United States and those involved in the 
collection of intelligence through human sources are 
minirni zed .. 
8. (U) Protecting the identity of individuals working 
for CIA, not only covertly but overtly as well, has been of 
particular concern to US lawmakers since the establishment 
of the Agency. _For example, with Section 6 of the Central 
Intelligence Agency Act of· 1949, 50 USC §403g, Congress , 
specifically exempted the CIA from the provisions of any law 
requiring the publication or disclosure of the organization, 
functions, names, titles, salaries, or numbers of personnel 
employed by the Agency. 
9;. (U) In 1980, Congress. passed the Classified 
Information Procedures Act (CIPA) which sets out pretrial, 
trial, and appellate procedures for criminal cases involving 
or potentially involving classified information. Working 
with the Department of Justice and the courts, CIA has 
successfully protected the names of CIA employees from 
public release even in criminal trials where there are 
heightened (i.e., constitutional) considerations favoring 
disclosure to the defendant of all government information 
relevant to the defense. CIPA allows for !n camera ex parte 
hearings in which the judge can rule on questions of • 
admissibility and relevancy of c_lassified information, 
including the identity of CIA employees who may h~ve 
information pertaining to the defense, before it is 
introduced either to the defenc1ant, defense counsel, or in 
open court. In some cases involving CIA, the judge has 
ordered that CIA infoxmation be turned over to the defense, 
but only in some unclassified form such as in•a .swmnary. In 
other cases, judges have reviewed-the classified information· 
and ruled that the harm to national security.outweighs the 
3 
SECRET 
