14-00000 
ARTICLE X. Contln1,11\nce or Pay and Allowl\nceo. Ir the Em­
ployee is det.ermlned by CIA t.o be aboent. In a ot.at.uo of "Mleolng•, 
"Mloe\ni 1n Act.ion", "lnt.erned\ln a Neutral Country", "Captured 
by an Enemy•, "Belearu~red". or \"Beeelred~, he ohall fort.he per­
iod he ls det.ermlned t.o be 1n ony such ot.at.ue be ent.lt.led t.o re­
ceive ~r t.o have credited t.o hie account. t.he same pay and allow­
ances t.o which he was ent.lt.led at. t.he beglnnlnr of such period of 
absence. Continuance of pay and allowances as sp~cl~led abov~ 
shall be as prescribed ln t.he M,selng Persons Act. of 1942 150 
u.s.c.A. App 1001-1015, ? March 1942). 
ARTICLE XI ■ General:. The ~mployee shall comply wlt.h t.he 
following provisions, and v1olat.1on t.hereor by t.he Employee shall 
be deemed a breach of t.hls ~ont.ract.. 
1. In part.lclp.atlng ln ·t.he programs and act.1v1Uea ot 
any private organization, the Employee ehall make lt clear that. 
the Department. or S~at.e has no official connect.ion with such or­
ganlzat.lon and. that. it does not. sponsor or sanction the viewpoint.a 
which he may express. Iri reneral, his r.elat.lons wlt.h private or­
ganlzat.lons shall be governed by applicable Foreign Service Regu-
lations. • 
2, Helt.her t.he Employee nor t.he members of his family 
shall act. as correspondent.d for American or foreign ne~spapers, 
press syndlcat.es, or aesoclat.lona unless special aut.hor1zat.1on has 
been obtained ln advance from t.he ADSO. He ehall not wrlt.e !or 
publlcat.lon an~ article or other manuscript. on pol1t.1cal or con­
troversial subJect.s. Articles or manuscript.a on nonpolitical or 
noncontroversial subject.a shall be submitted t.o t.he ADSO for re­
view and approval prior t.o their submlsalon to a publisher. 
3. Helt.her the Employee nor members or his family shall 
correspond privately on personnel or other official matt.era wlt.h 
members of Congrese, or officers ln t.he Department. or State, CIA, 
or ot.her Government.al agencies. 
4, Members or the Employee's family ehall not. be employed 
int.he same Forelrn Service office except. during grave emergencies 
or when special au~horlzat.lon has been obtained 1n advance or em­
ployment Crom bot.ht.he Department of St.ate and CIA. 
5, Before contracting m~rrlage wlt.h a person of foreign 
nat.lonallt.y, the Employee shall request. and obt.aln permission 
Crom the appropriate o!flclals ln bot.h t.he Department. of State and 
CIA. Any such marriage wlt.h an alien without. obt.alnlng advance 
permission shall be deemed a breach of t.hlo contract and shall 
result ln termination of service with t.he Government.. 
