SE:CHET 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, GS-14 Evalu3.tion Board 
SUBJECT Recommendation for Promotion to 
Grade GS-15, William M. Kent 
1. This memorandum recommends the promotion of 
Mr. William M. Kent from GS 14 to GS-15. Mr. Kent is a 
46-year old Operations Specialist who has been in grade 
since Dece~ber 1968. 
a. Performance in current grade. During the 
seven years t~\!r. Kent has been in grade, he has served 
as a case officer assigned to the Washington Base of the 
Foreign Resources Divis ion and, in the Lat in America 
Division, as Chief of the Peruvian Desk, Chief of Covert 
Action activities for the Chile Branch, and Deputy Special 
Assistant in the Economic Intelligence Collection and 
Cperations Staff. Since August 1974, Mr. Kent has been 
serving on a rotational tour with the Nonofficial Cover 
Branch of the Career Management Group (CMG/NOC). Mr. Kent 
has occupied a series of increasingly important positions 
since his assignment to Headquarters in 1970. During his 
tenure in the Chile Branch he was personally responsihlc 
for developlng two important programs -- one in the political 
action field and the other in the propaganda field -- which 
were designed to influence foreign attitudes towards the 
Allende regime in Chile. These programs were highly sue 
cessful. !le rP-ceived overall Outstanding ratings in his 
Fitness Reports for the period 1972-73 and for his work 
i..ith DlG/NOC in 197S. ~Ir. Kent received a Quality Step 
Increase in 1974. 
b. Potential. Throughout his Agency career Mr. 
Kent has demonstrated that he can 8ssume hroaJer and in 
creased responsibilities and perform effectively in 
cha!lenginf: situations. His special strengths lie in the 
Covert Action and ~onofficial Cover fields. !le has distin­
guished himself in his ability to apply imaginative solu­
tions to operational problems involving Covert Action. ln 
particular, he is noted for his vork in exploiting the dis 
covcry of the Cuban arms cache in Vcnc:ucla in 1963, and 
to support U.S. actions during the January 1964 riots in 
l'an,1rna c1nd the April 1964 revolt in the Dominican Pepuhlic. 
L2, I\!l'L1FT 
CL BY 018952 
SECRET 
