I. Summary . .. 
\ .: ·1 
On September 4, 1970, Dr. Salvador Allende Gossens won a plurality 
in Chile's Presidential electionf Since no candidate had received a 
ma3ority of the popular vote, the Chilean constitution required that 
a joint session of its Congress decide between the first and second place 
finishers. This constitutional requirement had, in the past, been pro­
forma. The Congress had always selected the candidate who received 
highest popular vote. The date set for the Congressional joint session 
was October 24, 1970. 
On September 15, 1970, President Richard Nixon informed CIA Director 
Richard Helms that an Allende regime in Chile would not he acceptable to 
the United Stat~i~ 
direct role in organizing a military coup d'etat in Chile to prevent 
The CIA was instruc~ed by President Nixon to play a 
;._ '/ ( 1! ,-; .,.,1,i/ . I . ,.,~ •\ ~ 
Allende's accession to the presidency. 
;,.--tc,,, ,7,d ~ .,.,_.,. Y-v /?--,e / 
The Agency'was to'take this 
A 
_.:;/ (lc_. c L 
action 1 
without coordination with the Departments of State or Defense and without 
informing the U.S. Ambassador in Chile. While coup possibilities in 
general and other means of seeking to prevent Allende's accession to 
power were explored by the 40 Committee throughout this period, the 40 
Committee was never informed of this direct CIA role. Nor did it ever 
approve that role. The only institution to which the Agency was to re­
port, both for informational and approval purposes, was the White House. 
*or. Allende, a long-time Senator and founder of the Socialist Party in 
Chile, was a candidate of Popular Unity Coalition. The Coalition was made 
up of Communists, Socialists, Social Democrats, Radicals, and dissident 
Christian Democrats. Allende was a self-proclaimed Marxist and was making 
his fourth try for the presidency. His opponents were Radomire Tamie Romero, 
candidate of the ruling Christian Democratic Party, and Jorge Alessandri 
Rodriquez, candidate of the right-wing National Party. Dr. Allende won 
36.3% of the popular vote; Atessandri was sec:ond_11it_h 35.3% of the vote. 
Dr. Allende's margin of victory was 39,000 votes oui of a total of 3 mil­
lion votes cast in the election. The incumbent President, Eduardo Frei 
Montalvo, a Christian Democrat, was ineligible for re-election. Chilean 
law prohibits Presidents from succeeding themselves. 
-
