INI:ERVIE'W AND MEETING SlfflARY 
Regarding the CIA and domestic dissidents, in 
the 50's the CIA's general attitude was not to 
investigate or surveil Americans overseas. FBI­
CIA communications rarely involved U. S. citizen 
targets unless they clearly involved a KGB agent. 
In the 1960 1 s, Papich recalls two early incidents 
of FBI requests for CIA coverage overseas. One 
was the Republic of New Africa, a black group 
with contacts with Communists and foreign radicals 
(note by Elliff -- the individual was Robert 
Williams?). The second was Stokely Carmichael, who 
traveled around the world. The FBI asked the CIA 
for coverage of Carmichael's contacts overseas 
but there were no results since the 1CIA had no 
capability. In retrospect, Papich thinks his 
importance was exaggerated. 
Papich does not recall any case or interest of the 
CIA regarding Dr. King. The FBI levied no requests 
on the CIA regarding Dr. King. Papich recall ha~........­
the FBI thought a black Communist Party 
contacts with King. The assumption w 
CPUSA was supported and financed e~ 
This influenced the FBI's vi )@m. 
There was no way the CIA -~r~ad since 
the CIA had no penetr he~Communist Party 
in Russia. The CIA h on the CPUSA links 
to the Soviet Union. little or no effort 
abroad into developing information on this. It 
was not a CIA priority. CIA was satisfied with FBI 
coverage of the Communist Party. If the KGB was 
using it for espionage or influence, the FBI would 
uncover it. The FBI would inform CIA of CPUSA 
activities. Regarding CPUSA, FBI determined that 
there was Sov~et financial support into the 1960 1 s. 
The FBI attitude as early as the 50's was that the 
CIA did not have the capability to discover CPUSA 
links to the Soviet Union. There were no leads for 
the CIA to explore in France, Czechoslovakia, etc. 
If a Communist Party member went to Rome or London, 
then FBI would ask CIA coverage, but the CIA gave 
it low priority and produced little. This led to 
FBI dissatisfaction with CIA, so FBI went through 
its legal attaches, who would contact foreign 
security services. Normally, the CIA was informed 
but sometimes the CIA was not notified if the FBI 
called it "an internal security" :natter. Papich 
NW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 11 
Page.:£. of£/ 
SECRET13 
