L 
' 
I 
'. 
-
NI< 157-2011 
> On February 16, 1974, DRAGBR and WILLI.~4 ERIC CARROLL 
were arrested by Lake Springfield, Illinois, Police Department, 
Sangamon County, Illinois, charged with possession of more than 
10 grams, less than 30 grams, of marijuana and possession of 
burglary toqls. A subsequent search of DPJ\GER's vehicle at_that 
time of his arrest revealed extremist m~terials consisting of 
cassette tape.• recordiI].gS, address books·, guerrilla training manuals, 
Ku Klux Klan literature, American Nazi Party literature, locations 
where crosses have allegedly been burned, wiretap equipment, and 
other right-wing literature. The subject was also in possession 
of numerous identification cards, such as driver's license and 
Social Security cards. 
The American Nazi Party - The World 
Union of Free Enterprise National Socialists 
was organized by George Lincoln Rockwell on 
February 26, 1956, based upon the concept 
of an international "National Socialist
11 
itlovement, as espoused by the German Nazi 
Party, wttich was headed by Adolf Hitler. 
On January 1, 1967; the official name of this 
organization was changed to National Socialist 
White People's Party. The NSWPP supports 
and follows the line of hatred against blacks, 
"Jews and communists through various propaganda 
media, demonstrations, and other publicity­
seeking
0
devices for the purpose of seeking a 
legitimate dominant political party within the 
United States and in foreign countries. 
Headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, the 
NSWPP is currently led by Matthias Koehl, Jr. 
On February 19, 1974, DRAGER was interviewed by 
Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) 
at the Sangamon County Jail, Springfield, Illinois. DRAGER 
stated that he was unemployed and maintains no pe-~manent 
address. He admitted membership in the "light action movement" 
but denied current membership in any extremist organization, 
although he claimed to be coordinating the activities among all 
right wing organizations in the eastern half of the United States. 
Set forth is the interview of DRAGER and WILLIA!-1 ERIC 
CARROLL, who was arrested and interviewed under the name TIIOt·li"\S 
MIDDAUGH. r 
If 
30 
NW 38296 Docld:32989574 Page ., 
