13-00000 
sions, he added, the district hopes to make such 
compute'r assistance available at a nearby rural ele­
mentary scnool attended by children of migrant farm 
workers. 
RESEARCH FRONTIER 
.. TALKING" BALLPOINT PEN UNDER DEVELOPMENT 
Ronald I. Deutsch 
Stanford Research Institute 
Menlo Park, Calif. 94025 
A prototype model of a simple, inexpensive "talk­
ing" ballpoint pen, under development at Stanford 
Research Institute (SRI), could reduce massive pa­
perwork and delay in routine business transactions. 
The pen is similar to an ordinary pen in size and 
swo except that it is wired to a computer system. 
tre:'~omputer is programmed to receive signals gener­
ated instantaneously as a person hand-prints charac­
ters with the pen to record information. 
"Such instantaneous and remote processing of data 
might be invaluable to large businesses engaged in 
daily consumer-oriented services, such as banks, in­
surance companies and utilities," says staff scien­
tist Dr. Hewitt D. Crane, the inventor. For exam­
ple, the pen could be used by a bank teller credit­
ing a savings or checking account. In this case, 
according to Dr. Crane, the data would not have to 
be retranscribed from a piece of paper by another 
employee, or the paper itself put through expensive 
automatic reading equipment. Thus, costs.and de­
lays could be reduced in crediting accounts or es­
tablishing cash requirements. 
In another case, a meter reader making his rounds 
for a utility could use the pen in combination with 
a cassette recorder. When he returned to his of­
fice, the cassette tape would be programmed into the 
system, thus eliminating the need for manual re­
transcription of a day's worth of data. 
In the present laboratory version, the pen is 
hooked to an audio unit as well as a teleprinter, 
so that as a person writes, the characters appear on 
the teleprinter and are spoken by the audio unit. 
SRI holds a patent on the pen and is currently 
seeking financial support for further development, 
Dr. Crane says. He estimates that the pen itself 
might cost about $25 to $50. A central computer 
unit would be extra but could serve many pens. 
MISCELLANEOUS 
ICCP NAMES DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 
Paul M. Pair, Secretary & Chairman 
Institute for Certification of Computer Professionals 
P.O. Box 1442 
0,icago, Ill. 60690 
At a meeting in late September, the incorpora­
tors of the Institute for Certification of Computer 
Professionals, Chicago, Ill., adopted bylaws for 
the newly-formed organization and named a board of 
directors which, in turn, held its first meeting and 
elected officers. The ICCP is the outgrowth of over 
t- 0 years of intensive preparation and study by rep­
resentatives of major computing societies. Its pri­
■ary focus is the enhancement of certification ac-
. . .• .. : . -_ ':,. 
j',t 111 .. •'1. 
~ . 
:·.-.: .: . 
--....--:.;;•l .• l·, 
'~~-'~ 
tivities in the computing industry. It was incor­
porated August 13, 1973. 
Elected as officers by the board of directors 
were: 
President - John K. Swearingen, Computer Sci­
ences Corp., Las Vegas, Nev., representing 
Data Processing Management Association CDPM). 
Vice President - Fred H. Harris, University of 
Chicago, Association for Computing Machinery. 
Treasurer - William S. Eick, Alexander Grant 
& Co., Chicago, Association of Computer Pro­
grammers and_Analysts. 
Secretary - Paul M. Pair, Control Data Institute, 
Chicago, Association for Educational Data 
Systems. 
Ten professional societies.participated in the 
organization of ICCP and are eligible for charter 
membership. Of these, seven have exercised their 
right to such membership, and are entitled to two 
members on the ICCP board. The seven charter mem­
bers are: Association of Comeuter Programmers a"d 
Analysts: Society of Certified Data Processors: As­
sociation for Computing Machinery: Association for 
Educational Data Systems; Society of Professional 
Data Processors: Data Processing Management Associ­
ation: and Automation l Association. 
, 
The other three associations eligible for charter 
membership are: Canadian Information Processing So­
ciety, the Computer·society of the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers and the Society 
of Data Educators. 'IJtey are expected to act before 
the end or 1973. (please tum to page 47) 
