107U SECTION 107. rY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDE,AI. _j)URCES 
l 
. . 
! 
[ 
[ 
r 
[ 
r 
& •• ·.··"'•i· 
NW .. 321 
5. Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used for assistance in security 
or raoial investigations, secure Bureau approval, and background 
data must be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is 
required for potential security and potential racial informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in vrhich the 
frequency of contact is dependent upon circumstances of the individual 
case, confidential sources on whom pending files are maintained should 
also be contacted at least once every two weeks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
c. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted. 
d. Contacts wi~h confidential sources should o~ly be made by the Agent 
or Agents specifically designated for that purpose. 
e. The letter to the.Bureau requesting authority to use a subject 
as a confidential source is to set out clearly the following informa­
tion: 
( 1) Background information, including date and place of birth., 
citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest 
record, and service record, if any 
(2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together with the results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
( 3) A statement to the. effect subject is being considered a con­
fidential source and that he will be advised he is not a 
Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
ship ·with the Bureau. In addition, a statement should· be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and 
if he is oonnected with a labor union he will be advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters, 
f. [One of the required copies of the letter requesting authority to use 
a subject as a confidential source should consist only of the firs·(; 
page of the letter.] If the request is approved at the-Bureau, a 
st~.mped no.ta tion will be placed on the [single-page] copy and[i t will 
be]returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to 
consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subject is 
s1tffi ciently coopera.ti ve and all necessary background information 
obtained. 
6. Security and racial confidential s6urces - certification of stability and 
payments 
a. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitied to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and raoial 
confidential sources. See 107N, 3b, for form of letter. 
b. If the security or racial source is not being paid on Bureau authoriza­
tion and is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source must 
dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containin~ the same 
oertification as to stability and reliability as required by payment 
letters. 
7 ~ Gifts 
Gifts to sources shall not be reclaimed as blue siip items. 
B. Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau when confidential source is discontinued, and the reasons 
therefor. 
28 
----·,,. ,--··-_1'•., ,-n 
) 
) 
I l 
f 
: r 
