' 107I - Ir SEGTI01:f 10 .. SECURITY IUF0Rt1ANTS Arm SOURCES 
2. Communications - use of symbols 
a.. After Bureau is advised of the permanent symbol, in subsequent 
communications ·!;rue name of informant should not be set forth; use 
symbol number. 
b. In all communications after the· initial lotter, Bv.re-au and field 
office file numbers for informant must be set forth. 
o. In communications between offices, the same procedure is to be 
followed. . 
d. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis for Bureau business or for per3onal reasons 
should be referred to in initial letter to interested office 
by true name and symbol number if it is necessary for the other 
di vision ·l;o know the identity of the informan·I;. Office receiving 
such letter should make appropriate index cards and place same 
in "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" index .. Sul,sequent 
letters between interested offices may then identify indi~idua~ 
by symbol number only. . 
( 2) Individuals who leave the di vision where they have been furnishin·g 
information and do not plan to return should be immediately 
discon~inued, thei_r symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name should be used in all administrative 
correspondence. 
(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and· remains 
active, his identity must stilL be protdoted. 
e. In communications, the teletype abb~eviation for the field office, 
symbol, and letter suffix 11S" shall be shown to identify the informant; 
e • g. , "NY 000-S • " 
t. In communications concerning a potential security informant, the 
name of the potential security informant and abbreviation "PSI" 
shall be used; e.g., "John Doe, PSI." 
g. Similarly, in communica~ions relative to confidential sources, the 
abbreviation "CS" should be used; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS. 11 
h. When symbol numbers are assigned ·l;o poteni;ial security informants, 
the designa·l;ion should be as follows: "LA 000-PSI." • 
i. In communications relative to a confidential source having a permanen~ 
symbol number, the following should be used: "CS LA OOO-S; 11 
j. In espionage and foreign nationality matters the caption of the 
cotnmunication should show in a~di tion a character and the country 
designation (i.e., IS - R for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.J. 
This facilitates routing lhe mail at the Bureau. 
J'. INDEXING 
i. True names and aliases of all informants, as well as the cover name 
[ assigned to them for informants' use in submitting their statements, 
but not their permanent Bureau symbol numbers, shall be indexed in 
the general office indices in the same manner as any other name. 
2. These index cards should show the file number of the informant and 
such terms as "Informant" or "Potential Security Informant" shall not 
appear. 
K. INDICES 
1. Alphabetical name index. and symbol number inde~ 
a. Al~habetical name index 
{lJ In all offices all active potential security and security 
informant cards are to be kept by the SAC, ASAC, or security 
~upervisor consistent with maximum security and best admin­
istrative praotice. This is to be known as· the alphabetical 
name index, 
(2) File these cards in alphabetical order and also include cards 
for security confidential sources. These ca·rds should show 
whether the individual is a pote~tial informant, an informant, 
or a confidential source furnishing information on security 
matters. 
-NW-38l2.LDocld:J2:9R:952:9 Page 1405 
14 
5-12-61 
