WARNING NOTICE 
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED 
~ • _, .... 
6. !KASSEL's draft report to his Soviet contact in 
Bogota is a single-spaced nine-page paper entitled "Composicion 
-Poli tica de la Emigracion Cubana en :Miami, Florida-." It 
covers those groups with which KASSEL ha➔ become most 
familiar:. the PRP, the MIRC, Alfa 66, arrd several. other 
-minor groups. . Following are highlights of that report] CS) 
. . ·' ,. , 
• • • _A. fin response to a ·specific requirement from 
·KASSEL's Soviet •contact to determine if U.S.-Government 
igenctes, including specifically the CIA, support any of 
these g-roups, KA.SSEL makes emphatically clear in his report 
that none of the exile gro1,1ps have the support of the U.S. 
Government, although some groups falsely claim to have such 
support. • He p~ints. out that· the U.S. Government not only 
ignores. the political exiles, .but places high priority on 
its relations with ihe USSR and ·is "disposed" to lift the 
blg,s::kade of Cuba and reestablish relations with Havana .. 
·1n connection with the latter point, KASSEL reports on his 
interview with Dr. Alberto DIAZ Masvidal, Director of the 
Spanish edition of Miami Herald., who told KASSEL that 
reestablishment of U.S. - Cuban relations is now imminent'JU) 
. B. RsA,ardirig on.;.island operations of Cuban exile· 
·,groups, '(KASSE~oncludes that none of them have_ any operational 
contacts inlba. . · • • - •• . 
• • c. -: egarding terroris~, {i'AssEQ'flports -t~at • • • 
Dr. Orlando OSCH, a fugitive from the U.S. who now lives 
fin Vene~uela under an assumed j.dei;ti ty, ~nd Ai;tonio· VECIANA,_ 
a founding member of the PRP who is now in prison, have a 
plan of attack against Cuban embassies and consulates and 
against Soviet Bloc missions· in· Latin America, to be put . 
into effect when Venezuela, Costa Rica, and other unidentified 
countries reestabli..sli relations with Cuba. He also singles 
out Jose de· Jesus-···QINQAUtvlA, • a Cuban political gangster who 
• last year planned an_.attack against a Soviet family in 
• Venezuela, and the .Frente Unido de Liberacion, which was 
(/formed this month ~n Miami and which announced the launching 
of a terrorist campaign against Cuban and Soviet Bloc • 
diplomatic installations in the entire Western Hemisphere. 
NW 50953 Docld:32319484 Page 5 
