107~1 - N SECTION" 107. SECURITY INFORMll.N"TS AND CONFI.TIAL SOURCES 
document in the pe:rtine·nt informant file and is not to be serial-ized. ( 
If a particular section of this form is not applicable, such should be _ 
noted thereon. If it later becomes applicable, the serial number can be 
noted at that time. 
12. Bulky material submitted by informant 
Where i-nformant or source submits bulky material other than a statement 
and same pertains to a-specific investigative matter, bulky material may 
be filed in the investigative case file, together with a ~opy of executed 
form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all appli_cable i terns 
set forth on form FD-306. In such a case, the original form FD-306.or 
channelizing memorandum should be filed in the subfile of ·the informant 
or source and the file and serial number where the bulky material is 
located should be noted thereon. 
N. PAYMENTS TO INFORMll.NTS AND HANDLING MONEY RECEIVED 
1. No gtfts to informants 
a. Gifts should not be given to informants sip.ce such actions might-be 
misconstrued. 
b. Relationship between Agents and informants shall be maintained on 
a businesslike ·basis. 
c. Investigativ~ employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies 
and request assistance regarding payments of money, gifts, or products 
of such companies to informants. 
2. SAC authority to pay informants 
For instructions regarding payments under SAC authority, refer to section 
[130H,]item 1, of this manual since comparable instructions apply to security 
informants and sources as those set forth for racial informants and sources. 
3. Payments on continuing basis - Bureaµ authority • 
a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authoriza­
tion. 
b. In requesting authorization for payments, a justificati~n must be fur- • 
nished Bureau. For this purpose, use form FD-401 and execute in .accord- ( 
ance with instructions for racial informants and sources contained in 
section[l30H,]item 2b, of this manual. Justification for payments, 
of course, is based on activity of informant, potential informant, or 
source in matters having primarily a security rather than racial in­
terest. In espionage and foreign nationality matters use subheadings, 
where applicable. 
Page 1661 
18 
6-19-70 
