Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan 
RE: LUNCHEON ENGAGEMENT OF THE DIRECTOR • -~ 
WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL AND 
MR. SARGENT SHRIVER, DIRECTOR OF THE • 
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY 
DURING WEEK OF SEPTEMBER 18, 1967 
Action Movement, a clandestine all-Negro revolutionary group 
that calfs for the overthrow of the U. s. Government by violence 
and which is procornmunist Chinese-oriented, were suspended as 
employees of Baryou - Act following their arrest last June along 
with a number of members of the Jamaica Rifle and Pistol Club, 
a Revolutionary Action Movement front group, on charges including 
conspiracy to advocate anarchy. Another member of this rifle 
club who was arrested, Arthur Harris, was also suspended as an 
employee of an antipoverty organization in Jamaica, New York City, 
which is funded by OEO. 
Newark, New Jersey 
In Newark, antipoverty funds were reputedly utilized 
by the United Community Corporation to rent two station wagons 
used to transport people who had been encouraged to appear at 
meetings at the city hall to protest action of a city planning 
board. Reportedly, one of the vehicles was equiped with a loud­
speaker and was used to make inflammatory remarks regarding the 
incumbent c.ity administration. Also, it is reported that 
inflammatory posters prepared by the United Community Corporation·. 
had been circulated. 
Syracuse, New York 
Employees· of the Crusade for Opportunity, an antipoverty 
agency funded by OEO, are alleged to have been involved in the 
racial disturbances which occurred in Syracuse, New York, 
8/16-18/67. fu:_officer of the Syracuse Pol~ce Department advised 
that a Crusade for Opportunity automobile bearing U. S. Government 
license plates was used by two Negro males and two Negro females 
to cruise ~hrough Negro neighborhoods•in Syracuse on 8/15/67. 
They utilized a loudspeaker to advertise a meeting on 8/16/67 
regarding't:he alleged rape of an 11-year-old Negro girl by a 
white man. 
\ 
A field .worker of this organization, Leroy_ Glenn Wright, 
was arrested during the first night's disturbance on 8/16/67 and 
charged with inciting to riot and resisting arresto • 
• o:~~ 
NW 3 
•. Page 524 
- 2 - V 
• 
