Review of }1anuel Ray files 
Volume iY of xviii 
Page. 2 • 
%£CRET > Betsy palmer 
11JJ.0629 
t 
6. . Field Information Report 
.subject: Background., Character and Economic Concepts of Hanuel Ray ki.vero 
Date: - 16 March 1961 
Sources·r· Oscar Si'iL/W Marrero (parasra;phs 1-lll Knew Bey in Cuba j 
. Dr. Jose ALV.AREZ Diaz, former Minister of Finance under Prio (Pg 
. Dr. Jorge l3ERUFF, former president.of Banco de Desarrollo 
Economico de CU.ba, (pg 13) 
Note: Cover note penciDed comment {Th~bcontent is so biased and mixed 
vi.th untruth that it wuld be a disservice to the intelligence coJTDTDm1ty 
. to disseminate it. 
Synopsis of paragraphs 1-11. / Dr. Salas lays during his ch1Jdbood Ray vas • 
. a Protestant but today is co~eteJ.s- a&istic. Said Ray organized the MRC 
·against Batista and shortly after .Batista's fall, MRC and 26th of J'llJ.s" 
Movement fu.t;ed into one, ani as soon as Castro came into power, control 
of the organization 'W8.S given to the Convmirdsts. Tells of Ray's association 
. . with Castro and that be did not resign his posi tic;m wen his own brother 
'· 'W8.S renounced by Castro. Stated that Ray's rupture with Fidel vas due 
• to the fact abat Ray opposed the idea of shooting Bubert Matos as a 
.. traitor. • Ray resigned his post but .said publicly that he approved and 
.. supported the Castro regime without any mental reservations. . Says in 
• • CU.ban cl.alld.estine circles Ray is regarded as boa.stf'ul, ostentatious andii 
• • deceitful. Intimate :friends of Ray feel that be is a man of anti-democratic 
procedures, and does not like to take advice, even from members of his own 
·movement. • : ~ ·~ ~~;~, - :, ...... :: . : , ., 
• ~ps~s ~f paragraph 12. ('Dr. Jdvare~a.ii'~· Wl1S in favor of maintaining 
relatdions with USSR and no"t-making Communist Party illegal. Sa.id that . 
··al.though~ withdrew all these statements when threatened with press 
coverage,(AJ.vare~ they are representative of Ray's thinld.ng and 
would try to put ideas into practive if be ever came to power. (µ.verez :) 
•• '., also mentioned Rays tb1nldng on-national.ization of public services, 
. social.1zed medicine, nationalization of banks, etc. 
·' • Synopsis of' pore.graph 13.(nr. ~aid Bey veil-intentioned with no 
. Communist tendencies. Cited a meet at which the basic points of the 
• • MRP platform were discussed 81'.ld said that since Ray 'W8.S in disagreement with 
, the others on mst of the points, Dr.· Felipe Pazos acted as chairman of the 
• meeting and Ray argued his case as a simple member of the group. Out of this 
· meeting came a declaration of 14 points, including the nationalization of 
'.:the banks and public utilities. 
On 9 March, Ray said that ideas . attributed to b1m in paragraph 12 -were not 
• true and part of a "campaign ~ainst him by Mr. Pawley of the Miami City 
Transit Cor.Ipa.ny" • 
SECRET 
12) 
