87D 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 
Sl':CC, 
.r. 
'{ INV!!!STIGA'{. 
·• II. [Activity in suppurt of Cuban regime 
752 
Careful cons:i.uor:dion should be ~ivcn to r0conimcnrling 
for inclusion in the cccurity index those individuals 
who in the l:i.t;ht of the clear ident:i.fioation of the 
Culmn Goverr.mcnt as proconanunint, pro-Soviet bJ,oc, 
and a.n-!;i-U. S., would 1H:? dE:omed dan(:crous or potentia.lly 
dangerouci to the internal secur·i:ty of the U. S. in the 
·event of an cmo1·1rcmcy inv-olv-ing c,~·bc. ancl the U. S. 
In connection therewith, there should be a ~ml>stantial 
showing of data within the following standards: 
(Ji.) An :i.ndi-vidual has serv·ed as a leader or office;.~ or 
has subtnntially participated in the ~ctivitien 
o~ i pro-Castro org&nization and has engaged in 
activities Y,hich h~.ve inclucl~?c1 ei·l;her the p::::-eparation 
or distribution. of p.,-o_-_Cuban or anti-U. s .. 1iropaga.nd·a; 
the acti,e collection of fund~ for any agency or 
representati·ve of the Cuban Go,crnment or for a 
pro-C~stro group, which funds are not intended for 
the relief cf hu.i!lan sufferin(; or other charita.ble 
purposes; active participation in acts of violence 
against anti-Castro individ.uu.ls or grou1,s or 
against the U, s.; o~ the active collectidn of 
intelligence data regarding the national defense 
of the U. S. or which wou1d serve the purposes 
of the Cuban Go7ernment as opposed to the interests 
of the U. S., where there are reasonable grou.nds 
to believe that such.data is to be or has been 
conveyed to any agency .or representative of the 
Cuban Government. • 
(B) .An individual, whether he has pad,icipated ·in 
organiza·!;icnal activity or not, has ene:aged ::n 
one or more activities specified in (A} abo~e and 
it has been clearly established, by overt acts or 
.statements or other evi:lence, that there are 
reasonable iroundi to believe the lojalty of ihe 
individual would lie with the Cuban Government in 
the event of armed conflic·l; between the Cu ban 
Government 2.nd i;he U. So 
(c) Aliens of Cuban nationality and aliens holding Cuban 
citizenship should be considered for the security 
index when it is de·l;ermined th2.t one of these 
"(1} is likely to foster, encourage, or promote the 
policies, pr~_grains, or objecti-ves of the Cuban _ 
_ Government, cf.r Ciolla borate wi·l;h the Cuban Go·\"ernment 
or (2) is likely to engage in or attempt to eni-•-:;e 
•. in acts of espiona-ge, sabotage, -or other acJ~i,·. ·,,:: 
inimical .or detrimental to the defense or publ .. 
safety of the U. s. as shown by overt acts or 
statements established through reliable sources, 
infor.ma. 11·1;s, or· individuals . .Acti-vities on a subjuc·l;ts 
·-:···· part which should be. considered in de:term.ining' 
whether his name should be added to the sec,1rity 
index under the fore~oing would include but should 
not be limited to (11 participation in organi~~tions 
supporting the Castr·o retime, (2) particip:d;ion 
in picket iines· formed in support of the Cuban. 
Government~ (3) contacts with Cuban agents operating 
in this country 011 behalf of the Cuban Go-rernment, 
or (4) statements or activities on a subject's part 
establishing reasonable trounds to believe that 
his loyalty would lie w:•~ the Cuban Government in 
thee-vent of armed conf: -~t between the U. S. and 
Cuba.. 
45a 
10-15-62 
