13-00000 
It's a smrill fraciion of what we have. but I want to 
do it right away as an earnest of our intention to move on, to 
declassify these documents and to get them before the public as 
quickly as possible. 
I've also made publicly available this week the 
agency's new guidelines for historical review and 
declassification. 
------------:1--n-connecti-on with these guidelines I have recently 
co_i:_i_unissioned a task force to review agency procedures under the 
Freedom of Information Act. I've instructed this task force to 
ensure that our internal FOIA procedures are-consistent with the 
approach that I' v-e described for h,ist9._J;:Jc::_a]._ __ p_eclassification •------,...-
- • • Al bhough the task· ·force will have to explore the 
difference between current documents and those that are often • 
requested under FOIA, and 30-year-old documents p~aced under 
historical review programs, my intention is to bring to the FOIA 
process a much more positive attitude-toward declassification 
and the release of government or CIA records. -~ 
The chart that- I've brought along with n:te desc-:r:=4:bes 
the nature of CIA's collection of documents, about 250,000 to 
300,000 pages of material. And I-don't need I think to go into 
any further detail on that. 
As I indicated, only about 11 of the pre-assassination 
documents belong to CIA, and we have released those, and as I 
did earlier in the week, brought along that file simply to show 
how thin it was- before that time. 
It was only after the assassination that CIA 
accumulated most of the documents that it had; 33,000 pages on 
Oswald alone. 
There has been some comment on the pre-assassination 
Oswald file, and how little it contained. I want to reemphasize 
that this pre-assassination material is but the first ----­
installment-of···all tne -material· we will review; merely an 
earnest of our intentions. 
All of the assassination-related documents we have 
will be reviewed for declassification, and we will transfer the 
declassified documents to the archives as they are completed 
without waiting for work on the entirety to ba completed. 
Mr. Chairman, you have asked about assassination 
materials that may be held by other intelligence community 
agencies. The FBI will describe its holdings separately, which 
I assume include both intelligence and law enforcement records. 
The National Security Al§ency and the State 
Department's bureau of intelligence and research report after a 
preliminary search that they have identified a relatively small 
amount of material responsive to previous inquiries by the 
Warren Commission, the Church committee. and the House Select 
Committee on Assassinations. 
The Defense Intelligence Agency, which did not come 
into existence until 1961, has identified no assassination 
material to date, and it anticipates that any holdings it might 
have would be minimal, because its mission at the time of the 
assassination focused on foreign military order of battle. 
I've indicated in my statemept for the record that CIA 
cannot release a number of documents unilaterally, because of 
limits in the privacy act, which protects the name~ of Americans 
against unauthorized disclosure; the sequestration of many 
documents by the House Select Committee on Assassinations; and 
