Jlemorandum to Hro Belmont· 
Re: Intelligence Coverage of 
Diplomatic Representatives 
of :fi'r i end 1 y Po re i g n .Nat i on s 
65-63113 
. The foregoing information gives us an indication that 
ILibya, Ethiopia, ,Sudan, Iran, and Saudi Arabia may possibly fall 
into Nasser's camp and become alienated from the :/esto,; Since we 
are on notice ~f these possibilities, it would be well for the 
Bureau to consider the desirability of instituting programs aimed 
at increas-ing our coverage of the diplomatic establishments of 
these countries. Such coverage would include the development of 
sources and informants where such coverage does not already exist 
and possibly the installation of technical coverage. Such action 
taken by us now would place us in a much better positio~ since we 
would be gathering and disseminating data of vital interest to the 
U. 8. b e Jore a po s s i b 1 e coup o r s i mi 1 a r event took p:la c e • 1'h is, 
of course, would be much more desirable than to haVe us implement 
such programs after a coup or similar event took; placeo 
Deputy Under /:.iecretary I-furphy has recently returned from 
a trip to the }fiddle East where he discussed ·tlte>~ll!iddle East eris is 
with a number of individuals, i~cluding the leaders of various Arabian 
·'\t countries. lfurphy is in '.a _position to give us a first-hand account 
-1 o.f what future moves can be anticipated from Hasse_r in Nasser's 
1
1 e.fforts to achieve Arabian unity through subversior_,.' and political 
i ~ maneuveri-fig. 1furphy can also furnish us with the identities of 
\~ any other countries that might be brought into Nasser's sphere of 
·jl influence o 
REC01llvfENDATI0NS: 
1. That our Department of State Liaison Representative 
contact Deputy Under Secretary of State Robert lfurphy and obtain 
his observations, gathered as a result of his trip to the Middle East, 
as to what further moves can be anticipated from Nasser with regard 
to Libya, Sudan, Ethiopia, Iran, and Saudi-Arabia, ~r any other 
i 
i 
·I h 
African or Arabian country. Murphy should be advised that we desire 
to direct our intelligence coverage so as to obtain maximum benefit. 
His desires should be elicited as to whether technical coverage of 
1 any of the countries indicated should be instituted. . I 
i 
- ii' 1, 
I· 
Ii 
- 2 -
" •• I~ , . , 
i.:.:. -
l 
