13-00000 
.. 
~ .. .. ~ ,. .. ,, . 
" . "( ~ _,. ... 
) 
.. 
I • 
C... .. •. 
,~ I 
. . l "· .. ~ , .. : : t ~ \ t, 
2 
the Frencm Consulate. On 18 June 1962, DCI McCone and 
Helms briefed Secretary of State Rusk generally on the 
operation without going into operational details. Later 
on ~he same day, President John F. Kennedy was brief.ed. 
Actual breaking and enterint occurred somewhat later, and 
on 15 Apri 1 1963, DCI McCone met with P1·cs iden t Kennedy 
alone and briefed the President on the details of this 
new phase of the operation~ On the same day, the Attorney 
General was briefed and he agreed that he would not 
mention it to the FBI unless the FBI themselves raised 
it with him. On 3 February 1964, DCI McCone met alone 
with President Lyndon 8. ·Johnson and briefed him on the 
operation. On 4 February .McGeorge Bundy was briefed. 
On 6 February 1964 in a briefing of Sec.retary of State 
Rus·k on the results of the operation, Rusk expressed 
reservations ~bout the propriety of such an operation. 
He raised this same concern in subsequent conversa~ions 
with· McCone on 17 April 1964, 28 May· 1964, and 14 June 
1964. On 12 September 1964 Rusk continued to express 
• grave reservations and repeatedly suggested that the 
French be informed directly that we knew about their 
espionage operations in the United States and ask them 
to desist. In .a meeting on 28 May 1964 Rusk expressed 
these.reservations in the pr~sence of DCI McCone and 
President John--F. Kennedy-.t-!.,.;secretary of Defense McNamara 
was also present, and there is no record that he had 
pl,"eviously been. made aware of this operation. •• 
4. Although certain activities never got beyond 
the planning stage, there are, I believe, three examples 
of such planning which could be subject to misinterpretation. 
One involved chemical warfare operations against the rice 
crops in both Cuba and North Vietnam. A second involved 
a paramilitary strike ag~inst the Chi-Com nuclear instal­
lations. Outside the United States Government, General 
Eisenhower was briefed on such planning~ A third, which 
assumes a: new significance today, involved a proposal by 
Angleton and Helms for a greatly increased intelligence 
collection effort against foreign installations in this 
country. This planning also involved a scheme for selected 
00458 
