13-00000 
. . . . ,. 
assembled for the JFK assassination investigations. All is 
being processed for declassification, with some 227,000 
pages already released. Some seventy percent of the 
released material contains redactions, although later in the 
briefing we noted that as our experience has grown the 
redaction .standards have evolved and now most material (up 
to eighty percent) is being released whole. Some 25 senior 
annuitants, working closely with a DO team led by Wickham, 
have been performing the initial review. Pereira pointed 
out that we are not only reviewing the assassination 
records, but those records bearinmg on our own investigation 
of the assassination. Pereira identified the five academic 
historians who make up the Board, and said they are 
supported by thirty full-time Board staffers headed by 
former Berlin Documentation Center chief David Marwell. 
Pereira said that the 1992 Act specifies that the Board must 
have "clear and convincing evidence" if we want to postpone 
release, and said that the Board requires "current 
justification" if we want to protect agent identities, 
sources and methods, or liaison identities. Under the law, 
the Board has the authority to release all information, and 
must justify in the Federal Register within fourteen days 
·any redactions. The Board sees the full text of all 
documents. Pereira said that we negotiate with the Board 
the use of summaries or generic descriptions (such as 
substituting "-a northern European station" I.for Helsink.fj) and 
that the Board is making an . 
"honest effort" to see the connection between thirty year 
old information and current damage to Agency equities. 
Dupart asked rhetorically whether the Board understood the 
concept of ongoing liaison, with Wickham saying that 'the 
Board clearly had a different perspective from the DO, and 
that the ADDO, General Counsel, Cover Staff and others have 
briefed the Board in detail to address this "p~oblem." 
Harrelson pointed out that our6oint t@aps ¥~a ;ecordec!J 
CQswald himselfj, although we assured the clear y unhappy 
Dupart that we are trying to protect the fact thatQ_iaison 
(Cooperated in the teltapaj. We also noted our effort to 
protect the identities of covert Agency employees, although 
we are working particularly hard in cases where the Agency 
employees now reside overseas. Pereira said we are 
concerned about the cumulative erosive effect on our cover 
and our ability to conduct operations. He noted that the 
Boards tends to focus on individual specific cases without 
recognizing the broader cumulative impact of their discrete 
decisions. (S) . 
2. ~iani]described the appeals process specified in the 
1992 JKF Act. She also lent Sheehy a copy of the act, which 
he studied carefully during the briefing. Under the 1992 
act, documents related to JFK carry the "presumption of 
release," with the Board defining which records fall under 
the act. We have to justify any redactions or 
postponements, .and Board decisions can only be appealed to 
