·( 
( 
(10) 
( 
':--
·( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
87D 
(j) In connection with periodic reports in security index 
cases, there are instances in which cvide·nce of extensive 
activity in subversive organizations will be developed. 
(k) 
In these cases it is permissible to report such information 
in narrative-type statements without i~diciating exact 
dates of activity; however, -the period of time involved 
must be shown, as well as the incluilive dates of the 
informant reports. 
This type reporting is not to be utilized in Smith Act of 
1940 cases or Internal Security Act of 1950 cases. Tne 
narra.ti ve statementn must be statements of facts and n·ot 
conclusions and information from each source must be reported 
in separate narrat\. ve statements. 
The above instruct nns in no way remove resp onsi bili ty 
for rep ortin·g all ,.ems of pertinence to the Bureau, bearing 
in mind the fact i;h'l.t Bur·e·au files must be complete insofar 
as matters of s·ubstance are ·concerned, nor is responsibility 
removed for the reporting in detail of information tending 
to establish a subject 1 s knowledge of th~ basic aims and 
purposes of the subversive organizations with whic~ ~ffi~­
iated or information tending to establish that a subject 
holds revolutionary and/or ana~chist beliefs. 
In the documentation of narrative statements se·l; for.th the 
location of· the original documents in the field office 
files by the file number and serial scope. 
Administrative data 
(a.) General 
£81 
All references to the following items, all a.dminis-trative· 
in nature, should be contained in cover pages accomfanying 
reports: 
I. Reserve index, security index, file number·s and titles 
of qther cases, priority apprehension program, kei 
figure or top functionary status, security index- flash 
notices (FD-165), forms FD-122, FD-122a, FD-128, and 
FD-128a; and Bureau instructions for handling cases or 
any inf9rmation contained in Bureau or field correspondence 
which is not investigative in nature 
77 
2-13-63. 
... 
