However,,--n0n.€: ·of'. the_ CIA officers believed that assassination was within 
(' .. ' . . 
gui~e1ines Helms had been given. 
Senator Hart of Colorado . ... did the kind of carte 
bLanche mandate you carried, tl1e marshall's ·baton 
that you carried out in a knapsack, to stop Allende 
from assuming office, include physical elimination? 
Mr. Helms. Well, not in my mind, because when I be­
came Director, I had already made up my mind that we 
weren't going to have any of that business when I was 
Director, and I had made that clear to my fellows, and 
I think they will tell you this. 
The followl.ng day, Septemher 16, Director Helms called a meeting 
at the CIA to discuss the _Chilean situation. At this meeting, he re-
lated to his colleagues his understanding of the President's instruc-
tions: 
2. The DirecLor told tl1e group that President 
Nixon had decided that an Allende-regime in Chile 
was unacceptable to the United States. The Presi­
dent asked the Agency to prevent Allende from com:­
ing to power or to unseat him. The President 
authorized $10,000,000 for this purpose, if needed. 
Further, the Agency is to carry out this mission 
without coordination with the Departments of State 
or Defense. 
(Memorandum/Genesis of the Project, 16 Sept. 1970) 
Henry Kissinger's recollection of the September 15 meeting with 
President Nixon is in accord with that of Richard Helms.* Although 
Dr. Kissinger did not recall the President's instructions to be as 
precise as those related by Director Helms, he did testify that: 
... the primary thrust- of the September 15th meeting 
was to urge Helms to do whatever he could to prevent 
Allende from being seated. (Kissinger testimony, p. 
*** 
* 
13) 
The documents, and the officials from whom the Committee has heard 
testimony, are'iri substantial agreement about what President N~xon 
authorized on September 15, namely CIA involvement in promoting a 
military coup d'etat in Chile·e There is not,,~however, agreement 
about what was communicated between the CIA and· the White House-­
and hence what was authorized by the latter--in the week. between 
October 15 and the death of General Schneider, October 22. This 
matter will be discussed in Part V of this report on the Schneider 
killing. 
Hlf 5095.5 DocI<l.: 32423.525 Page 79 
~--· 
t>· ' • 
-
