.'Af?R 15 ~97 04:56f>M USGOVERNMENT P.4/14 
SECRET 
Subject: CIA Employees 
important for the Review Board to reconsider the laws which 
protect classified information, because they clearly reflect -" 
a larger US Government policy to protect covert CIA 
employees from disclosure. 
7. (U) By Executive order and statute, the President 
and Congr~ss have made the Director of Central Intelligence 
responsible for protecting sources of intelligence. In his 
Directive of 22 January 1946 that established the Central 
Intelli~ence Group, President Truman made the DCI 
responsible for protecting sources.- With .the estal:>lishment 
of CIA, Congress also ·gave the Der this responsibility. The 
National Security Act of 1947, Section 103(d) (3), codified 
at SO· use §403(3) (c) (5), requires the DCI to protect 
intelligence sources from unauthorized disclosure. In 
addition, §403(3) (d) (2) requ.1res the DCI co ensure that 
risks to the United States and those involved in the 
collection of intelligence through human sources are 
minimized. 
8. (U) Protecting the identity of individuals working 
-for CIA, not only covertly but overtly as well, has been of 
particular concern to US lawmakers since the establishment 
of the Agency. For example, with Section 6 of the Central 
Intelligence Agency Act of· 1949., so use §403g, Congress 
specifically exempted the C:IA from the provisions of any law 
requiring the publication or disclosure of the organization, 
functions, names, titles, salaries, or numbers of personnel. 
employed by the Agency. 
9/. . (U) In 1980, Congress passed the Classified 
Information Procedures Act (CIPA) which sets out pretrial, 
trial, and appellate procedures for criminal cases involving 
or potentially involving classified information. Working 
with the Department of Justice and the courts, CIA has 
successfully protected the names of Cll employe·es from 
public release even in criminal trials where there are 
heightened (i.e., constitutional) considerations favoring 
disclosure to the defendant of all governmenc information 
relevant to the defense. CiPA allows for ,in camera ,ex parte 
hearings in which t~e judge can rule on questions of 
admissibility ~nd relevancy of classified information, 
including the identity of CIA employees who may have 
information pertaining to the defense, before it 1s 
introduced either to the defen<1ant, defense counsel, or in 
open court. In some cases involving CIA, the judge has 
.ordered that CIA information be turned over to the defense, 
but only in some unclassified form such as in•a summary. In 
other cases, judges have reviewed the classified information 
and ruled that the harm·to national security outweighs the 
3 
SECRET 
