13-00000 
• . . . 
•· 
Reel 62, Folder 5 
This folder contains two verbatim transcripts (33 and 46 pages) of interrogation sessions 
by Peter Deryabin which cover specific KGB operations and a particular KGB operatiori 
targeted against an American tourist. 
Reel 62, Folder 6 
This folder contains one 22 page verbatim transcript of two interrogation sessions by 
Peter Deryabin which cover a particular KGB operation targeted against an American 
tourist. 
Reel 62. Folder 7 
This folder contains one 84 page verbatim transcript of two interrogation sessions by 
Peter Deryabin which cover Nosenko's education, Navy career, and a particular KGB 
operation targeted against an American tourist. 
Reel 62. Folder 8 
4 
This folder contains an eight page verbatim transcript of an interrogation session by Peter 
Deryabin in which Deryabin encourages No~enko to confess that he was sent under KGB 
control and to think about becoming a double agent. Nosenko says that he has been 
telling Deryabin the truth all along. 
Reel 62, Folder 9 
This folder contains 51 pages of 12 Deryabin reports on his interrogation sessions with 
Nosenko in July and August 1965. The information in these reports summarizes 
information detailed in the actual interrogation transcripts. 
Reel 62, Folder 1 o 
This folder contains a mix of intra and inter-Agency memoranda pertaining to the 
handling ofNosenko and is labeled "TS Material from Deryabin Safe." This folder was 
not examined by the HSCA staff. Thirty-seven pages of documents have been released 
to the public. The 97 pages of NBR documents include: correspondence with various US 
Government agencies and the Attorney General, memoranda on Nosenko's day to day 
handling, emergency procedures for Office of Security.guards assigned to Nosenko, a 
report to the CIA Inspector General on the Nosenko case, Nosenko's request for political 
asylum, copies of his subsequent contracts with the CIA as an independent contractor, 
and additional reports, memos, and briefings concerning the Nosenko case and his 
handling. 
