6J - K P.ART II 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
SECTION 6. 'PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
referred to Bureau by local law enforcement agencies or whe~e Bureau • 
fugitives are taken into custody by local, iay,- enf"orcement ·officers. 
They should also be advised of violations of 1-ocal laws coming to the 
•attention of the FBI. 
Visits to Washington 
When the field reque~ts special courtesies be 'afforded ·c~_ttain indi­
viduals; including law e·n:t'orc·ement officers, coming to Wa5.hington; Do 
the communication so advising the Bureau ~hall contain biographical 
data. and a brief summary of information in the·· field office files con-
cerning the visitor. ·" 
c., 
When law enforcement executives· are con:templating a visit ··to the Bureau 
at Washington, D. c., ask them to call at the office of the .Assistant 
Director, ~raining and tnspection Division, Room 5256, Justice Building. 
4. 
5. 
• •c. • Letters of commendation, congratulat:l,on.s·, • appreciatis>n, and 
condolence • • 
When letters of commendation, congratulations, appreciation,· or 
condolence from the Director are recommended by the field,_sucb.., __ 
recommendations should be submitted promptly. They should 'include 
the specific facts on which the recomrnendation•is based, full,:-identi­
fying data and address of the citizen, and.the result.of a search of 
the field office indices c~ncerning the citizen. Jn· connectJ9n with 
the election of officers of police associations at convention~ cover­
ing more·than one field division territory, the field divisio~ in 
whose territory the convention was physically held is· responsible.for 
submitting any recommendations for lette-r:s of· congratuiations~ T':t:1.e 
office submitting such request should summarize brietly the relations 
with these officers; incorporating any derog~tory data which might 
preclude such letters. Inasmuch as the reconimehdirtg office is not 
likely to possess all data, pertineri.t:other field divisiqns shou-J.d 
submit a bri"ef, supplementai summary concerning offic·ers :recommended. 
for letter~ who reside in their territory. • 
[Inquiries concerning status of Bureau cases 
When a state official has expressed interest in: the pros·ecutive status 
of a Bureau case, for a legitimate reason, such as deferment of state 
prosecution pending the outcome of the Federal case, insure that such 
official is kept appropriately advised, including the final out·come 
of the matter.] 
u. s. Cabinet officers, Senators, and Congressmen 
If an SAC receives an inquiry from a Cabinet officer or U. s. Senator ·or 
Congressmau concerning an official m&tter, it should be brought to the 
Bureau's.attention immediately. 
K. SOURCES OF INFORMATION 
Def.inition 
An individual, organization, or conce_rn willingly fur~ishing information to em­
ployees frequently enough to justify making a record where the source need not 
be protected. If occasionally the source must be protected, this may be done. 
If sources must be constantly concealed, they become informants or confidential 
so~rces and must be handled as such. • 
1. Index 
Index card (3 by 5 inches) must be made up to contain: 
·a" Names 
b. Addresses 
c. Organization or concern 
d. Type of information furnished 
e. Date of development 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 942 
6 
1-29-62 
{.' 
( 
\ 
( 
t, 
r 
e 
:, 
i' 
I 
l 
