13-00000 
- 6 -
13. The President then turned to Indonesia and stated that 
he was faced with the necessity of making a decision as to whether 
or not it was in the national interest to continue aid to Indonesia. 
This decision had to be made by him in accordance with the foreign 
aid bill just passed. He said he wanted in writing from Secretary 
, Rusk, Secretary McNamara, and Mr. McCone their recommendations 
as to what his decision should be.. He also wanted to get reactions 
from Senator Russell and .several other Congressional leaders. He 
quoted a figure of $25 million which was involved. (Action: The 
wheels are grinding in the Agency to come up with a pro and con and 
consequences paper for the Director upon which he may make his 
recommendation to the President. The figures are somewhat con­
fused and the actual amount appears to be in the neighborhood of 
$60 million. Mike Forrestal. has these figures pretty well tied down 
/
. and points out that the Presidential decision does not require any 
action on PL 480 funds.) 
14. The President then stated that he was totally dissatisfied 
with the proposed program .for alleviating poverty which apparently 
suggested that he ask Congressional authorization for a lump sum 
of money which he would administer through some sort of newly­
created poverty administration. He said he wouldn't touch it with 
a ten-foot pole and that if he proposed anything like that on the Hill, 
they would laug}:i him out of court and it would probably bring a 
defeat in the Democratic party in the upcoming elections. He would 
give absolutely no consideration to anything which could possibly 
result in graft or pork barrel activities. Any program for the 
relief of poverty must be designed to get right down to the grass 
roots out where the poverty actually exists and must be handled by 
existing Federal, State, and community organizations which are 
geared in this direction. He mentioned specifically the possibility 
of utUizing the Bureau of Public Roads and other similar Federal 
and State orga.nizations. He said that if roads are to be built, they 
should be built into and out of poverty-stricken areas and to pro­
vide access to schools and hospitals and such human needs activities 
and not, repeat not, for the improvement of major trunk lines and 
highways. He thought perhaps the people who were receiving this 
