14-00000 
SUPf>Ll:MENTARY INFORMATION ------~----- ----· 
February 1947 - M:\r-Ch 1947. In February 1947 1 entered on 
duty with what was known as tho Central lntelli~encc Grour, 
2430-E Street, H.W., Wnshinr.ton, D. c., a government body 
creatcd·oy_ Executive Order which was a predecessor to the 
Central Intelli~ence Agency. I was a le~al liaison officer 
with thh group. 
- Much 1947 - Decembor 1949. Durin~ this period I was 
detailed to_ the U. S. p~partmont of State, 20th Street and 
ViTdnia Avenue•;::}.Z-.-W., -:Washington, D. C., where I was assigned 
to the U. s. E~bassy, Caracas, Venezuela, as Attache. In that 
capacity J prepared reports and advised and counselled the U.S. 
Ambassador on matters of a lo~al and political nature. In • 
this work I employed legal knowledp,e, back~round and experience 
as related to the laws of the United States and tho Republic 
of Venezuela. 
January 19S0 to December 19S1 - Central Intelligence 
AP.ency, 2430 E Street, N.W., WashinP,ton, D. C. In this 
period I was assigned to duties involvin7, liaison on le~al 
matters with other departments of the u. S. Government in­
cludinP. the Uepartment of Defense, Depart~ent of Justice 
(lmmir,ration and Naturalization Service and Federal Bureau 
of Investii,ation) and tho Department of State. Critoria 
for the position included knowledp,e, application and 
interpretation of U. s. and foreign laws. The establishment 
of the po~ition was at tho instance of the General Counsel 
of the A~ency and my selection to the position was with his 
concurrence. The assip,nment required close working coordination 
and collaboration with the General Counsel of the A~oncy and 
other governmental 1.egal counsel. 1 discontinued this 
particular work to enable me to ar,ain undertake further assign• 
ment with the Department of Stato as a member of the Foreign 
Service Staff Corps. 
December 1951 - April 19S4 - U.S. Department of State, 
Forci1,n Service Staff, Washinr,ton, D. c:. DurinP. this period 
I served as Attache, Political Officer, American Embassy, 
Guatemala City, Guatemala, In that capacity I gathered in­
formation concerning the legal system, laws, and enforcement 
thereof and counselled and advised the u. s. Ambassador on 
matters of a legal and political nature, In this work I 
employed legal knowledge and experience as ,related to the 
laws of the United States and the Republic of Guatemala. I 
resigned from this position in Guatemala to return to the 
U, s. for personal and family reasons. 
