[ 87C - D SECr A87. INVESTIGATION OF SUBVER~-.· • .., 
• ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVI~ S 
[ 
[ 
f 
f 
(D. 
[ 
[ 
[ 
f 
[ 
[ 
! i [ 
[ 
[ 
f 
f 
t 
I 
regarding ex-members of subversive groups: background, type -
of information possessed, time period covered, availability for ( 
interview and for testimony. 
n. Channeling information to case files 
(1) Memoranda regarding membership or activity in subversive organiza­
tions, including summaries of .inf,, r.mant reports, should be 
channeled to case files of individuals involved. When information 
from infonnants or surveillances is channeled to indiyid~al case 
files, it should be documented. 
(2) When preparing lengthy channeling memoranda reporting material of. 
interest to other offices, limit number of copies prepared to two 
for each.other office. Clearly indicate next to names of other 
offices the page number containing information of interest an~ note 
on cover page that distribution of material to individual case. 
files should be handled by recipient offices. 
o.· Movement of subjects between offices. 
If office of origin receives information that subject of current 
or past investigation changes residence to territory of another 
division, office of origin request verification within 30 days. If 
new residence confirmed, office of origin submit FD-128 to transfer 
origin. 
DISSEMINATION OF DATA DEVELOPED 
1. General Policy 
Information developed during these investigations should be furnished to 
other agencies in Executive Branch which have a legitimate interest. See 
MRR, part II, section 5, pertaining to Bureau's overall responsibilities 
·and policies in dissemination. 
Do not disseminate earlier reports without reviewing them to insure they 
meet current reporting standards. If they are unsuitable for disseminat'ion, ( 
prepare LHM containing pertinent information. ' 
2. Specific requirements 
_Following instructions cover representative situations which occur: 
frequently. 
a. Members of armed forces 
Delimitations Agreement between FBI and armed forces intelligence 
agencies (see section 102B, volume IV, of this manual) requires free 
exchange of all information of mutual interest between subscribing 
agencies. Immediately refer any derogatory or possibly s1gnificant 
information developed concerning members of military services, 
including contacts with individuals or groups of security interest, 
to military service having primary responsibility. 
If it is determined subject of FBI investigation is member of armed 
s~rvices, discontinue immediately, advise FBIHQ, and disseminate 
pertinent information locally to appropriate intelligence agency. 
If it is determined subject has close relatives in armed forces, 
promptly advise appropriate military intelligence service, a~d • 
furnish pertinent information, including reports, on subject involved. 
Evaluation of such association lies entirely within province of 
military intelligence service. 
16 
6-6-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1876 
