Memorandum 
To: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director 
From: Robin Lindley 
Date: November 24, 1978 
Re: Request for Salary Increase 
I would greatly appreciate a wage increase. As you are aware, my 
responsibilities with the Committee have changed dramatically in the past 
few months. Not only have I assisted with ad hoc writing projects such 
as narrations and staff reports that have been used in public session 
hearings, but I amalso·resp6nsible for writing and editing a substan­
tial part of the final report of the King Task Force. 
My background uniquely complements my present duties with the editori­
al staff. In support of this salary request, it may be useful to reac­
quaint you with my experience. Following my graduation from the Univer­
sity of Washington School of Law in 1974, I worked for two years as a 
full-time Instructor of Law. In that capacity, I taught a legal research, 
writing, and analysis course, and had the opportunity to critically examine 
hundreds of pieces of student work. I also developed a seminar in writing 
about law for persons without a legal background, an effort to encourage 
students to humanize and demystify their own legal writing, as well as 
··review possible examples of this sort of writing, such as legal journalism. 
In addition, I am familiar with historical research and writing. I received 
my Bachelor of Arts degree in history (with distinction), with an em-
phasis in United States and modern European history, and while attending 
law school, I. organized and taught a course concerning the role of vio-
lence in American history that was presented in the Department of General 
and Interdisciplinary Studies at the University of Washington. 
I have·worked diligently for this Committee since October 1977. As a 
I 
research attorney, I did my best to research issues thoroughly and accurate-
ly, to analyze and cogently synthesize relevant material, and to present 
the fruits of my efforts in a clear and concise manner. I also endeavored 
to see that this. information was. used ~·effectively in connection with the 
King investigation, despite some obstacles posed by staff regimentation. 
Furthermore, I have acted as a de facto staff counsel, notably with the 
King investigation in England, as well as in the day~to~day dealings with 
agencies and witnesses. 
Consequently, based upon my work with the Committee and my unique 
experience, I submit this request for a salary increase. Specifically, 
I ask that my wages be raised from the present .level of $18,000 per 
year i::b·. $Ql41,, opr:t ·peJ'.:";• year. 
I look forward to my continued work with Dick and the other members 
of the, editorial staff~ -: r:,.·firid 'my,-duties gratifying, at times exhilarating, 
and always challenging, and r· do: bel·ieve that I am uniquely qualified to 
make a significant contribution to our final report. 
Thank you for your kind consideration. I would greatly appreciate a 
reply to this request. 
(Copy to Dick Billings) 
Page 3 
\ 
\ 
\ 
I 
I 
I 
