[ 
[ 
[ 
J 
EllD. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
SECU"RJ'.'.I.'Y T.NY.F!S'J.IJ'.G.A°~:.r 
·• Arr~ngeme nt 
This index -i::i to be maintained in two sections; section A and 
section B. Each section will be maintained alphabetically on 
5- by 8-inch cards, 
(a) Sect.ion A 
Section A of the reserve intlex is designed to represent a 
spicial gruup of individuals who should receive priority 
consideration with reapect to investi~ation and/or other 
action following the apprehension of security index subjects~ 
I~ Sectlon A should include those individuals whose sub-
II. 
versive activities do not bring them within the s_ecurity 
index criteria but who, in a time of national emer~ency, 
are in a position to influence others again~t the national 
intereat br are likcly·to furnish material financial aid 
to subversive elements due to their subversive associa­
·tiona and ideology. Include in this section those indi-
viduals meeting the standards for inch1.sion i.n. t·he ·reserve 
index and who fall within the following oategcries: 
•1A1 Professors, teachers, and educato~s 
B Labor union organizers or leaders 
C W:c-i tcrs, lecturers, newsm':;ln, ffn·!;ertainers, and 
f~~ 
others in the m~ss media field 
Lawyers, doctors, and ~cientists 
Other potentially influential persons on a 
local or national level 
\F) Individuals who could potentially furnish 
material financial .aid 
Recommendations for inclus"io1i of names in the reserve 
i;ndex { section A) . • 
(A) Recommendations for inclusion of names in section. 
A of the reserve index are to be submitted to the 
Bureau by form FD-122a, A succinct summary setting 
forth the basis for the recommendation should be 
attached to the form FD-122a[unless the recommen­
dation is made simultaneously with a recomme:p.dation 
• that the subject's name be deleted from the securit~ 
index.] In addition, if.no report is a~companying • 
the. recommendation, a statement to that effect· 
should appear .on the page containing the succinct 
summary. . 
(B) Upon Bureau approval of recommendation for·the 
.--· inclusion of an individua1 1 ·s name. in se.ction A of 
the reser.ve index, two reserve index cards will be 
forvrarded to the. field. Add on the reve:r:se side-. 
available descriptive data. ~ne card is to be 
• filed in your office, and one card is to be 
filed away from headquarters city at the same 
location as the extra set of security index cards 
a.re now·stored, 
III. Periodic revi~w.of section~ of the ~eserve i~dex 
Investigations of individu~ls listed in section A of 
742 
the reserve index-are to be brought up to date annually 
and considered for security ind~x status or retention 
in the reserve index. Form FD-154 may be used for 
·the annual review by amending it .for use in reserve 
index cases. This investigation should include, 
as a 
(A) 
• ( B) 
(c) 
minimum: 
Verification of residence.and employment 
Indices search and file revie~ to determine 
whether additional investigation is warran-:ed 
or whether an interview with the individual 
is desirable 
If additional investigation is conducted or.if 
there is unreported information of a sub­
versive nature contained in the files, subcit 
a. report. 
42b 
1-15-63 
