13-00000 
' . 
International Investment Activities 
of Multinational Companies 
These figures, and other results of the survey, 
lead to one major conclusion: That the interna­
tional investment activities of these representative 
multinational companies played an important role in 
their rapid export growth and consequently made a 
major positive contribution to their domestic - and 
I emphasize the word domestic - sales, investment 
·and employment growth. 
Double Taxation 
I have tried to speak in familiar language; so I 
have some misgivings about discussing the issue of 
taxes. But the tax issue is an important one, and 
I'd like to cover some specific areas which are com­
ing more and more into public'discussion. 
~--
~-issue is the section of U.S. ·tax law which al-
lows American corporations a tax credit for the in­
come taxes they pay to foreign countries on income 
earned in such countries. The purpose of thi~ tax 
credit is to avoid taxing the foreign earnings of 
U.S. corporations twice - once in a foreign country 
and again when the earnings are remitted to the 
United States. 
Opponents of this tax credit argue that since do­
mestic firms are not allowed a federal tax credit 
for the state taxes they pay, the current method of 
taxing income from foreign sources is inconsistent 
with the way domestic income is taxed. 
Taxation by U.S. States 
A major fallacy in this argument is -that it is 
based on the incorrect assumption that the taxation 
of domestic income by city, state and the federal 
government is analogous to the United States taxing 
the foreign earnings of American subsidiaries which 
have already been taxed by the host country. 
The proper analogy is between the way states 
treat corporate income earned in two or more states 
and the way the U.S. government treats income earned 
in two or more countries. Every state which has a 
state income tax provides a method of allocating the 
income of a multi-state company among the various 
states in order to avoid duplicate taxation of the 
same income. As a matter of fact, the constitution 
requires this. Thus the current methods of taxing 
foreign and domestic income are consistent. 
Further, where one domestic corporation in the 
United States has an ownership position in another 
domestic corporation, the federal income tax law 
quite properly prevents duplication of corporate in­
come taxes. The parent company is taxed on earnings 
of the owned company only when such earnings are 
distributed as a dividend - and then at no more 
than a nominal rate. What logic can there be in the 
Burke-Hartke proposal that earnings of an overseas 
subsidiary - in most cases earnings already taxed 
in the foreign country at rates comparable to or 
higher than U.S. rates - should be immediately re­
taxed at full U.S. income tax rates? 
International Competition t,y 
American Industry 
Another fundamental element of the issue is the 
tax credit's relationship to the ability of American 
industry to compete internationally. According to a 
recent survey by the l'..:ational Association of Manufac­
turers, if the United States were to repeal· the tax 
credit for foreign taxes paid and tax all foreign 
subsidiary income before it is paid out in di\·idends 
to the parent company, U.S. firms with foreign oper­
ations would be forced to pay an average effecti\·e 
tax on their foreign earnings of over iO per cent. 
Given this added tax handicap, few American firms 
could continue to compete with foreign-controlled 
companies for world markets. 
You can appreciate how useful it is to have these 
facts for presentation where·contradictory allega­
tions are being made. Let's keep the record straight I 
Also useful to the undertaking on which we must 
all embark is the factual story of what imports and 
exports do, beneficially to.!:.!!..!.!.! jobs. 
Imports Produce One Million U.S. Jobs 
Labor Department figures document the finding 
that one million jobs in the United States are de­
pendent on imports -•jobs for food processors, ship 
and dock workers, truck drivers and railrriaders, 
warehouse employees and retail clerks. And it's 
equally impressive to co~sider that every billion 
dollars worth of exports creates 60-to-80,000 jobs 
in the United States. 
As we assess the situation, let us not forget the 
dilemma our government faced in August 19il. ~s 
Mr. Peter Peterson wrote, the New Economic Policv 
announced that month was not, and I quote, "a on~­
shot reaction to a one-time crisis. It marked the 
beginning of a new era of more flexible, enduring, 
and viable economic relationships among nations. The 
years behind us were by and large an era of success, 
but an era based upon a system which had become out­
grown, outworn - and increasingly crisis-prone." 
Tariffs and Free Trade 
Mr. Peterson was referring to the tremendous im­
pact that international trade and monetary factors 
were having on our people. We have since come to 
learn the difficulty of achieving universally ap­
proved corrective action. And now we must reckon 
with this reality: U.S. negotiators are preparing 
to enter economic talks next fall that could shape 
future international relationships for many years to 
come. Our government can and should strive in these 
talks to put an end to present attitudes and trends 
that point ominously to another "balkanization" of 
world trade. 
It can and should seek agreement to reduce, and 
if possible end, all tariffs on industrial trade by 
the end of this century. 
It can and should try to create fa_r freer trade 
conditions for farm products. 
It can and should seek the· harmonization among 
nations of the present hodgepodge of non-tariff 
trade barriers and preferences. 
But these objectives will remain forlorn hopes 
unless our negotiators can go into these hard bar­
gaining sessions with the clear backing of the Amer­
ican people and their Congress. ~e !!!!!.!!. give them 
that. 
Spurring· Internal Transition to 
Successful Competitive Enterprise 
Meanwhile, we face and must do something about 
the undeniable tolls and grievances resulting from 
(please turn. to page 23} 
