13-00000 
PAGE 1.l 
20/20 (ABC), August 27, 1993 
Mr. NOSENKO: In Minsk, he was shooting rabbi ts with shotgun. Would you believe 
it? He never shoot a single rabbit. And here we see person shooting rifle on a 
long distance, and shooting three, four shots in several seconds. •• 
Mr. POSNER: He didn't get a rabbit, and therefore that's used as evidence that 
he couldn't kill the President? But talk to those who actually knew what Oswald 
was like with a gun, his brother who· used to go out with him. 
ROBERT OSWALD, Brother: We have shot cottontail rabbits with .22's on the run, 
okay? We've shot squirrels in the trees with .22's. 
SHERR: tvoice-overl Robert Oswald says his younger brother was al.Nays interested 
·in guns. He still has the pistol Lee Oswald bought when he was 16. 
Mr. OSWALD: Hy experience with him in the field with a shotgun or a .22 was he 
usually got his game. 
SHERR: tvoice-overl And Lee Harvey Oswald used the same rtf-le that killed the 
President only weeks earlier in a failed attempt to murder to retired Army 
general Edwin Walker. In other words, according to author Gerald Posner, Oswald, 
a loser in life, wanted to accomplish something. 
MAN: C?l Lee Harvey Oswald, O, s, w, A, L, D. 
REPORTER: Did you fire that rifle? 
LEE HARVEY OSWALD: That's the facts that you people have been getting, but I 
emphatically deny these charges. 
SHERR: tvoice-overl If, as you say, Lee Harvey Oswald was not working with the 
mob or with the CIA or with the KGB or with the military industrial complex, why 
did he kill the President? • 
Mr. POSNER: I think that Oswald killed the President, because this was to be 
almost his fulfillment, his moment 1n the sun. Three··days before l(ennedy arrives 
in Dallas, he's given a gift on a silver platter:. Jack. Kennedy's going to pass 
in front of the Depository. It's-not ideology, it's not because he's Communist, 
but it's because he has that opportunity to place himself in history. Here we 
are, 30 years later, talking about h'im. He was successful. He got his wish. 
WALTERS: Well, there's a lot of proof. Is the case closed? 
SHERR: Well, certainly, Gerald Posner believes so, but out experien~e is that 
people on the other side are so dug in, it's unlikely anything is going to 
change their mind. You know, even at Dealey Plaza, there are people just walking 
around, telling you what their theories are. And incidentally, Barbara, Dealey 
Plaz.a-
WALTERS: Which is where assassination took place. 
SHERR: -which is where it took place­
WALTERS: Yeah. 
:ervices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
