j 
( 1070. S SECTION 107 • SECURITY JNFORM.A.NTS[.AND CONFID:ENTI.A.L SOURCES] 
•r) • t·~ 
Be alert to the possibilities of former informant be.1.ng t·~ontacted by 
representatives of publicity media and as a witness by congressional 
committees, INS, and state authorities. It will be the SAC's respon­
sibility to know when a former informant is scheduled or is likely to 
appear at a hearing or make a public appearance of any kind. Prior 
thereto in each instance, former informant must be contacted and instruc­
tions above set forth reiterated by Agent who handled the informant. 
Emphasize to former informant that he must stick to the truth- and make 
certain he can back up what he says, and if there is any deviation he 
will be subjected to harassment, criticism, possible libel, slander, or 
other criminal actions. If he inquires as to whether he should appear 
or testify or otherwise cooperate with ~ny public or private individual 
or agency, advise him he must make that decision himself, but if he has 
appeared as a Government witness in a case which has not been .finally 
adjudicated and decides in the affirmative, he should contact the USA 
for instructions. Advise Bureau of any such situations and the results 
of any interviews conducted. 
R. FURNISHING OF INFORMANTS TO II11'1IGRATION .A.ND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (IMS} 
1. lMS conducts investigations of alien communists as required under the 
Immigration Act of 10-16-18, as amended. INS, in order to enforce this 
statute, must obtain evidence to prove that certain aliens, due to 
their membership in certain groups, are undesirable and deportable or 
subject to denaturalization., 
2. Cooperate fully with INS in these cases and ~ak~ effoiis consistent 
with your own cases and interests to make available informa~ion and 
witnesses where possible. 
3 0 In this regard, if contacted by INS inquiring for informants and you 
have a discontinued informant or one who would be of assistance to 
INS and whose loss would not affect your work, furnish ·his identity to 
the Burcau,together with your recommendation. . • 
4. The Bureau will then review all of the facts concerning such informant 
and advise as to whether or not his identity may be disclosed to INS. 
50 Exorcise care in recommending informants for disclosure to INS so that 
you will not find yourself without proper coverage. 
6., Before any informant is turned over to INS, obtain informant's per­
mission. 
:[ S. CORRECTIVE .ACTION[ON FALSE INFORMATION} 
1 0 When it is determined that an informant or ex-informant furnished false 
information while an informant, advise Bureau by airmail of complete 
factso 
. 2 0 Set fo.rth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing 
the inform,'..nt in futui·e, such as: "in:formant of known unreliabili tytJ 
or t:inform~i.nt who has furnished both reliable and unreliable ir:.formation 
in the past 0 tt 
3 0 Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with a review 
of all data furnished by the individual and label information from him 
accordinglyo 
4 0 .All commun:i.catio!ls containing information fro~ the informant which have 
b~en diss erninated to Bureau, other Bureau offices, and to outside agencies 
must be corrected~ 
5 0 Identify the cases individually by title and· character, together with 
dates of communications containing the informationo 
6 0 If information was used in reports, corrective letters should be crystal 
clear and refer to the specific report, page nwnber, and change to be 
madeo 
7. .Amended pnges should not be prepared unless so instructed by the 
Bureau in accordance with part II, s cctio n 4, of the lfanua.l of Rules 
and Regulations; corrective action should be called to the attention 
of other Bureau offices, outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
26 
~~-- ?T-:-- ~- f·-~-~ 
~--,- ' .. - -:. _, .. ' 
... ~~ - ,' ~:-~~-:-1" 
__ ., --.--:- ·-·. f, (~~':!",, 
:ii, '1, •• 
;, .. 
.) 
,. 
. 
' I 
l 
l 
l 1 
' i I 
i i 
1 l l 
i 
i 
l : i 
l 
i 
I 
' I 
i i I 
' I l 
I 
i 
I ! 
! 
' 
I I I 
I i 
I 
l 
l 
I 
I ! ! 
i -1 I 
I 
