• • agency material for nearly three decades ~ithout probleras. Recently, 
however, the Office·of General Counsel has ruled that an "Official Use 
Only" caveat \-;ill not bar such rr.aterial from the general public under 
the Freedom of Infornation Law and we are accordingly looking into 
alternative measures, ar:iong Ylhich arc: (1) the. purchase of ne~-:s sc::::vices 
with rights to publish and disseminate; and (2) the classification of 
those itC:,'.lS vital to the govern2ent I S business which we raust continue 
to monitor an<l report. An ulUmate decision will be weighed against 
the risk of present procedures . 
.. 
4. The routine FBIS monitoring of foreign radio broadcasts often 
involves staten~nts or speeche:s macie by ·u.s. citizens using those radio 
facilities. Examples are statc!ments made or allegedly made by Araerican 
POW's in Hanoi,- by Jane Fonda in Hanoi and by Ra~sey Clark in Vietnan. 
At the request of FBI and the Department of Justice, and vith the 
approval of the CIA Office of General Counsel, we have on occasion sub­
mitted transcripts of such bro~dcasts to the Department of Justice as 
part of that Department's consideration of a possible trial. In such 
cases, we have been required to submit naccs of FEIS monitors involved, 
presumably because of the possibility they night be required as witnesses. 
(In one case in 1971, an FBIS staff employee was directed to 6ppear as 
an expert witness in the court-r.:artial of a H:irine enlisted T!lan char~ed 
·with aiding the enemy in a broadcast fror.i Hanoi.) FBI.S vic:ws all this 
with misgivings. Monitoring of such broadcasts is incidental and we 
rue attributic.,n of their news to FBIS, and we should not be c'Onsidcrecl 
policemen t'.aintaining surveillance of traveling Americans. 
5. FBIS is an overt organization, but one aspect of its operations 
is under Dcpart:.!ent of Cor.::uerce cover. The ,Taint Publications Rcsearc.h 
Service (JPRS) was ~stablished in 1957 to provide the mean~ through which 
great volumes of m.,1terial from unclassified foreign publications could 
be translated by large numbers of independent contractors in the Unit~d 
States op a piece rate basis. Contractors arc not witting of·t~cir CIA 
employment. This use of cover is an anonaly in FBIS and contains some 
risk of enbarrassment to the Ageacy and to Corr.:.1ercc if it becorr.es public 
knowledge. The surfacing of JPRS was given study in 1969, but after 
consideration of all the pros and cons it was decided at the Executive 
Director-Comptroller level not to proceed at that time. FBIS is presently 
taking a second look. 
B:.~~o~-tu E. H. Kt'{OCIIE ----
Director 
Foreign Broa~cast Information Service 
-2-
00 ~-..,(l 'l (I,,. . , ~ 
NW 38296 Dodd:32989£24 Page 83 
