14-00000 
.. 
r· 
4 
8. In connection with bilateral and multilateral 
actions involving the cooperation of the OAS and nations 
of the Caribbean, Mr. Bundy stated that the nature and 
import of the recently discovered arms cache in Venezuela 
constitutes a point of departure for such actions as search 
and seizure on the high seas or an OAS-sponsored quarantine 
against arms shipments. Mr. Helms then briefly described 
the nature of the arms cache and the plans involving those 
arms as set forth in captured Venezuelan communist documents. 
Mr. Helms showed a map prepared from those documents indi­
cating the manner in which the arms would have been used 
to tie up the city of Caracas during the recent election. 
Mr. Martin then briefed concerning OAS action with regard 
to the arms cache. He said that the committee appointed 
by the OAS to investigate had called for additional 
evidence from the Venezuelan government which would take 
two to three weeks to assemble. He said that he felt that 
the OAS report would be out in mid-January although the 
question of Cuban defense against the Venezuelan charges 
had not yet been resolved. Mr. Bundy referred to the 
efforts being made to increase the effectiveness of sur­
veillance of arms smugglers in Central America and referred 
to the possibility of an OAS-sponsored search and seizure 
on the high seas. 
9. Under Secretary Ball stated that the Department of 
Justice has warned that a number of students 1 some of more 
respectable stripe than the last group which visited Cuba, 
were planning to try to visit Cuba during the Christmas 
vacation and that there is evidence of larger numbers 
planning to do the same thing during the summero He said 
that the Attorney General was bothered by this and had 
suggested the relaxation of present rules concerning travel 
to Cuba. Mr. Ball said that the Department of State is 
tentatively opposed to such relaxation particularly because 
of its effect on Latin American countries. The President 
strongly concurred with the Department of State position. 
He said that he did not propose to change or relax present 
regulations. 
c-\ I~ 
~; t --S..\ 
Desmori'.\ ~ld 
Chief, Special Affairs Staff 
