• • 
DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES 
• INTERVENTION IN VIETNAM 
Since United States ~ircraft attacked selected 
targets in North Vietnam follo~.j.ng torpedo-boat assaults 
against destroyers in the Gulf7Tonkin in early August, 
1964, there have been in the· United States al-most daily 
demonstrations to protest United States intervention in 
Vietnam. Many of these demonstrations have reached major 
proportions. . • 
The Communist Party and other subversive groups 
such as the W.E.B. DuBois Clubs of America, a communist­
inspired Marxist-oriented youth group; the Socialist Workers 
Party, which has been designated as subversive by the Attorney 
General, and its. youth affiliate, the Young Socialist Alliance; 
the Workers World Party, a communist splinter group and its 
youth affiliate, Youth Against War and Fascism; and the 
Progressive Labor Party, a pro-Chinese Marxist group,have 
actively supported and participated in demonstrations along 
with the Students for a Democratic Society, a militant youth 
group which has been described by Gus Hall, General S~cretary 
of the Communist Party, USA, as a group which the Party has 
"going for us." Pacifist groups such as Women Strike for 
Peace, Women's International League for Peace and .l4·reedom, 
the Committee for Nonviolent Action, and the National Committee 
for a Sane Nuclear Policy have also taken a leading role in 
sponsoring such demonstrations. Summaries showing the 
highlights of these demonstrations are furnished to the 
White House and other Government·officials two or three times 
a week. 
The Spring Mobili..zation·committee and the Student 
Mobilization Committee, both of which include members of the 
Communist Party and other subversive groups in their 
membership, are sponsoring demonstrations throughout the 
United States April 8-15, 19670 The focal point of the 
week-l.'ong activity will be massive demonst!ations at . 
New York City and San Francisco, California, on April 15. 
The Reverend James Bevel is the National Director of the 
Spring Mobilization Committee. Bevel is an official of the 
Southern ehristian Leadership Conference, a civil rights 
group which is headed by the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. 
The Student Mobilization Committee is the brainchild of 
Bettina Aptheker, a student at the University of California 
at Berkeley and a member of·the Communist Party, USA, National 
Committee. • An attempt is being mad·e to have 500 individuals 
burn their draft cards at New York City during the demonstration 
on April 15, 1967, as a mass protest against the war and the 
draft. 
.. 
