I ~NFIDEMTIP:t ( 
14 August 1981 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation with Gordon Novel. 
. Gordon Novel called the. New Orleans office on 13 August 1981.• 
Ronald Farris was away on Annual Leave and had arranged to have his calls 
forwarded automatically to the Houston Field Office's listed telephone 
number. When the call was· answered with--the Houston number, Novel indi­
cated that he was calling the New Orleans office. He was told that Farrfs 
was out of the office for a week and his calls were being relayed to 
Houston. Novel asked how he would go about obtaining his personal Agency 
file under the Freedom of Information Act. He was· ·told that he should • 
address a letter to Freedom of Information Coordinator with his request. 
He· then indicated that he had done this already, and the information sent 
to him was so severely edited and _sani_tized that it was difficult to make 
sense of it. He did, however, disc·over. that it contained information that 
was erroneous and he asked how to go about refuting the misinformation 
and/or correcting the file. It was suggested that he write a letter 
detailing the dfscrepancies and request that a change be made. He did 
not seem interested in dofng that and promptly changed his line of 
questioning. He asked how he would go about.contacting the Director of 
the Agency directly .. He was told that he should use the .local represent­
ative, Mr, Farris, to rel 9y any information he might wish to get to the 
Director. ·. Novel indicated that he had only talked to Farris once, but 
was anxious to bypass the usual channels to avoid having his information 
mishandled or misconstrued. He was told that Farris was a highly qual.ified 
representative of the Agency and the proper ind1vidual to contact regarding 
information he wished to ·get to the Director's attention. ·He gave a small 
sinister chuckle and replied~ "We'll see about that," then hung up.·· ' 
(
'.'-, 
·:.,.-- ••.• ·------····-=·-·;-,•·-,:··_-::~.-:-o·c,•·.--.·,.-..:···.·.•--,.•.:.~ .. -: . 
CC: Chief, Central Staff 
New Orleans Resident Office . . 
·~.,.-:.· 
# ..... i' 
-~~~- " ~ ,·,: -,-t. 
Co 11 een R. Webb 
DCD/Houston Field Office 
eo NF I BENT IM.:· 
-·- .. 
./ 
