( 
(-
( 
[ 
( 
( 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
{3) 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 
:cTIOrI 87. SECURITY IHVESTIGA~ 1fS 87G 
• I , ,, , 
f •. office territory, t.hu nar:w a.titln of each Negro· 
included in thi:: tot::i.1 who mainta.ins o. nation::,.l lcYel 
position, an~ t~e name and title of each Negro included in 
thic tot.~J. who I1Ja:int2.in;; a distric~;; level position above 
the status of "club chr..irman." l✓.embe:rs of the Communist 
Party, USA., who are now carried as unidentified but who are 
known to be mcmberc of the·Ncgro race should be incluiled in 
the to·!;al r:umber of Negroes.) 
When por.sible, totals should be broken down c>.s to nation-' 
ality, sex, employment, veterans, and membership in unions . 
.Auxiliary offices which, due to lack of Communist J'arty 
activity in their divi:dons~ have been authori7.od to sub­
mit d,d;a. by quarterly letter· should. include member1:hi-p 
figures in these letters to the Bureau and office of origin. 
These letters to be submit·l;ed by a1..xiliary offices prior 
to fil"st day of month in which quarterly report is due.· 
Office of origin rcsponsiblt to obtain complete figures 
from its auxiliary offic~s. 
[b) In pieparing estim~tes, best availabl~ informants 
and sources must be used. Include in cover pages of 
quarterly reports evaluation of degree of reliability 
of figure3 furnished by each source and of final figures 
submitted •. Also include in cover pages total number of 
individuals positively j_dentified as Communist Party 
members and to·!;al number of indi vidu:ils ten.ta ti vely 
iden·tified as party members within the twel ve-mo!:.th period 
immediately preceding the submission of the quarterly report. 
In reporting membership figures,, information from one 
source only is no·t acceptable unless facts are s13t forth 
demonstrating info:rma.·tion from this source is. the most 
accurate and most reliable information available. 
(o} Explain in detail any increase or decrease in membership 
figures-previously submitted. Where informants use such 
terms as "inacti:v-e 11 or "papern members, their•exu.ct 
understanding of the meaning of the terms used and the 
number ·o'f individuals so described must be clearly 
explained. Full explanation must be made as to whe·l;her 
individuals so described are included in final membership 
figures submitted, together with reason for their 
inclusion or exclusion., . . 
( de) Results of membership recrui t-in,g drives 
{ ) Make dfscr'eet efforts to as·certain results of annual 
na.t·iona.1 registration d:r:i ves. . • 
F-unds (Bureau file 100-3-63) 
(a) Income and expenditures 
(b) Plans and results of fund drives including: 
( o} 
( f) 
Io Total amount sought by the state Cowmunist Party 
organization 
IIo ·s~ecific amount to be contributed by the state 
o;.ganization to the n:?.tional committee fund dri.ve 
III; S·pecific a.mount· to be contributer! by the state 
organization t& ttThe Worker" fund drivi 
IV •. ~peci[ic amount to be ~etained by the state organiza­
·tion after contr:ibuting i;o the national oommi ttec -
and wThe Worker" fund drives for·use in the state 
organization's own operations 
Large contributions by known party groups or front 
organizations 
Identity of any new party "angels" 
Distribution of funds not sent to Communist Party 
headquarters,·such as funds in safe-deposit boxes, 
separate bank accounts, etc. 
Any special padding of expense accounts by Communist 
Party functionaries should be reported. 
7 
10-14-63 
589 
