[107P - Q. SECTION 107.ECURITY JNFORM.ANTS[.AND CONFID.IAL SOURCES] 
[ 
P. SIGNING OF LOY.ALTY OATHS, AFFIDAVITS, AND STATEMENTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting Agent fully 
advised of any situation wherein they might- be required to sig.n such a 
for.m. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of ail such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4.· The Bu:r:eau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Burea11, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant I s activity; . however, such situations 
must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
5. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to be 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed action, 
6. In no instance should you permit an informaat to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
Q, DISCONTINU~D INFORM:ANTS 
1. When the services of an informant are discontin~ed, mark the name card 
"cancelled. 11 Destroy the symbol card, :Never destroy the name card. 
2. Refile the -name card in numerical order by symb·o1· number 'in the symbol 
number index. The symbol number shall ,1ot be subsequently reassigned 
to another informant. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued 
poteni;ial l:lecurity in.formant or confidential source to whom a symbol 
number· was once ·assigned later is reactivated, remove his name card from 
the symbol number index, mark it reactiYated with appropriate date, note 
thereon type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential s ecu:ri ty informant or confidential source is disco·n­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4; kdvise the Bureau when a potential informant or informant is discontinued 
and the reason therefor. 
-5 . .Advise the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to t9stify 
in open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all _c.,,s es of security of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must.be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance with section[69F~ volume III» of this manual,] 
6. Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating tc the Depart­
ment's interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available as a witness are contained therein. In those cases in which it 
is evident the Department has indicated a desire to consider the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau in each such 
substantive case, except in those cases in which it is obvious the statu.te 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the Bureau, 
7. :A. statement shall also be made to the effec·I; that the measures to con­
trol informants, set out in 8 below, have been considered ancl recommenda­
tions shall be made when it appears that such are warranted, 
8. When the services of an informant are discontinued, maintain close con­
tact with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Bureau's 
best interests.. When an informant is discontinued, determine whether 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or new·spaper article, or other-­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than making other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
24 
2-12-60 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1503 
.,,. 
) 
) 
