14-00000 
• 
• CAREER NZJlt "" •• 
• •. ·~EC·REl • RYBAT \!J 
at,; _,t. V.SFT-rl11 
27 May ~989 
McmorandU!II in. Ll:CU of Fitn.e!'i·s. R"port for Cecil J. KLOBl.ikAK 
ror the ·period 26 J.u1·y Hl6H to 31' March 1969 • 
I 
I 
CecU J. U.OBUKAR was the Chief of this Base until 
July 1968 at w~ich time he was assigned new duties as a 
career agent, targeted primarily against the San Francisco 
consular community, Un~U that timo thoro was no specific 
program·alm<id at tho ~l.Ucial foreign community. It was 
KLOBUKAR's respon1;1ibilfty·, thoroforo, to broak ground in 
this new target aroa. He· wont about this chore in an 
orderly and organized manner by refining the community to 
those which wero of priority intorQst because of their rep­
resentation in doniod and semi-denied areas, Ho then started 
looking for a moans to got information and gain access to 
members of this target group, To assist him in this endeavor 
ho recruited two members of the consular community, repre­
senting Latin American countries, Since their performance 
did not live up to expectations, KLOBUKAR took tho initiative 
by joinin'g three local organizations l.~elating to foreign 
affairs in order to enhance his cover and possibility of 
direct accoss as a retired LNGOLD officer, Dy participating 
in the gatherings of those organizatione, KLODUKAn is-_aiming 
at direct contact with at least a few of tho officers from 
target consulates, 
KLODUKAR has demonstrated excellent initiative in pur­
suing.as many avenues of approach as possible to this rather 
diffic:.il t target, It is not a cohesive community and does 
not experience the usual mixing and contact that one finds 
in normal dlplomatic circle~. It is fragmented and cliquish 
and for this reason KLODUKAR has had to show both imagination 
and perseverance in probing for access to those specific 
consulates in which th~ Base has priority interest, He is 
now d~monstrating his determination to get at this target 
by exploring another possible means ot approach of his own 
device, 
In addition to his primary responsibility again&t the 
consular target, KLOBUKAR also handles one support asset 
currently beiµg used against n high priority student target 
and tbreo general purpose assets who are used from time to 
1SEGP.Ef GYDAI 
r. 
\. 
\ 
