13-00000 
SECRET 
SUBJECT: (U) Identity of Human Sources 
affiliation of innocent family and friends. This is no less 
true with a source who no longer works for the Agency. A 
source's prior affiliation with CIA is normally still 
classified in order to protect him, his former.contacts at 
CIA, the CIA facilities at.which he may have been meeting 
with case qfficers, the cover mechanisms employed to protect 
his affiliation with CIA, and the operations which he 
conducted. 
15. {U) The public disclosure of an individual's 
affiliation with CIA could and, in fact, has threatened the 
safety and lives of not only the source, but also their 
families, colleagues, officials of foreign governments and 
other foreign nationals with whom they have had contact. 
The Review Board will certainly recall the Proenza case 
(since this was released by the Board in August 1995) in 
which a number of Cuban.officials were falsely believed to 
be CIA agents. They were arrested, convicted and spent 
years in prison for their alleged treasonous activities and 
their professional and personal lives were ruined. The 
threat of violence to those who are in fact associated with 
CIA is even more real. These individuals live and work in 
foreign countries, many of which have a local population 
hostile to the United States and especially CIA. If one 
should doubt the risks that those affiliated with CIA face, 
one only has.to recall that, in 1992, two CIA employees were 
murdered while waiting to turn into CIA Headquarters in. 
Virginia. If this type of attack is possible right at the 
CIA's front gate, it is not hard to imagine the personal 
risks that those working with the CIA abroad face. Clearly, 
the·· risk is that much greater for those who are sources: 
for example, as a result of Aldrich Ames' disclosures to 
the KGB, 10 Soviets who were covert assets of the CIA were 
executed. 
16. (U) Incidents such as these clearly demonstrate 
that the policy of protecting association with the CIA is an 
important one. Individuals associated with CIA have been 
and will continue to be subjected to threats, reprisals and 
physical injuries from foreign intelligence services, 
terrorist groups, and other persons or organizations hostile 
to CIA or the U.S. Government. Individuals choose.to 
undertake these risks for many different reasons, but it is 
with the condition that the CIA will protect their 
cooperation with the U.S. Government. 
IV. Proposal 
17. (U) In light of the foregoing, CIA believes it is 
important to work tow~rd a general policy of protecting CIA 
sources in the JFK Collection. The Agency proposes that in 
6 
SECRET 
