• SECRET Betsy Palmer 
Miscellaneous documents no in files 
Page 3 
8. Inf'ormation Report - Guba/Dominican Republic 
SUbject: Purchase of a Boston Whaler for Manuel Ray Rivero, 
-Date: 
·Source: 
. Leader of the Junta Revolucionaria CUbana (JURE) 
18 Septemver 1964 
Naturalized American citizen - formerly in shipping business 
in Guba, well-trained and experienced debriefer 
On 14 Sept 1964, a Mia.mi yacht builder firm purchased a 13-foot six inch 
Boston whaler f'or Ray. Purchaser, .Angel Aixa1a Pertierra said he planned 
to go to ..9anto Domingo to get permission to operate the whaler in Dominican 
waters, and once this had been granted, :would deliver the boat to Ray. 
It was on AixaJ..a's Cata.ma.ran ct 1208 D, that Ray made his ill-fated initial 
attempt to enter Guba. .Aixala. is not a member of JURE. 
Classified Message to Director, from Paris 
Date: 8 June 1963 
Ray and Emio Guede arrived in Paris and Ray contacted by Nauman on 7 June. 
Reviewed plan for Franqui recruitment in place. Urged Ray to ta:.ke 
immediate action before his presence in Paris was leaked. _.Guede tries 
to contact Franqui by phone and on all occasions, phone-answered by Fil.1th 
Sorel or her· roomate, Helene Pulish (phonetic). Guede leaves message each 
time and on last call told Franqui going to Brussels and may have already 
left. On 7 June Guede sees Franqui at the opening of his exhibition and 
talks to him. Franqui listened to him, but made no responses to his 
veiled overatures. Guede surmizes Franqui not interested -- thinks he is 
incapable of defending regime but not willing or capable of breaking with 
it. i:¼I'0very and JERVAY met Ray. Feel this important re possible future 
use Ray Europe. Pari support excellent. (c/s comment: m~.3 has reason 
believe no obstacle convincing Ray push for Franqui return for period to be 
eyes and ears anti-Castro conspiracy.) 
~ 10. Cable Report to Director, from Paris 
Date: 14 June 1963 
Ray and party travel to ~ssels on 11 June, and Ray continues his efforts 
to recruit an agent in place for CIA. Contacts Guilla.rno Cabrera and 
surmised Cabrera held back from a break due to his concern for a brother 
inside who is ill. Ray asks Cabrera to arrange a meeting with Gustave Arcos 
but Cabrera unable to do so since Arcosf~tf// leaving for a few days. Ray 
extends his trip. Contacts Nauman who tells nay it is not possible to 
resolve all the personal problems of those he has contacted and Ray must 
show them the wisdom and practicality of working in place as a means of 
eliminating the regime. Ray willing to settle for defection as he believes 
tli.J.s has an impact on the regime. Report states that Ray extremely active, 
moves fast and purposefully, and has given impression of frank cooperation. 
Has ·volunteered to assign a man to be station contact, but feelsf{§:~.mLE 2 
is too young but should be aware of whomever is designated. \t1'.J 
SECRET 
