• 
• 
J 
I 
., . ../ 
TnP 8F.CRET · DtNAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
178-10004-10056 
z 0 
~ 
~ a: 
0 
LI. 
~ 
C 
II) w 
z t--z <( w 
t- ~ 
z t-0 a: u <( 
0. 
~ 
0 u 
w 
> j:: 
in z w 
II) 
h·,J,'" • . .. 14 November 1962 
. fHE WH ~ -::,: j ,.)F 
ITt Huus~---Or,<;'tt,r 
SCI. 
MEMORANDUM l''UK: .Director of Central Intelligence 
SUBJECT CIA Handling of the Soviet Build-up 
in Cuba, 1 July ·- 16 October 1962 
A. The Background 
1. The USSR's decision to develop Cuba as a military 
base must have been made by the spring of 1962, and prepara~ 
tions within the USSR must ·have been under way from that 
time on. There also must have been planning activities in 
Cuba, particularly reconn•issance· and sur~ey work .. The 
only indication of these operations which has so 1ar been 
found is a single intercepted personal message on 11 April 
to a Russian in Cuba who had previously been at the 
Ka pu"stin Yar missile test range. This fragment was not 
judged solid or important enough to warrant inclusion by 
itself in current intelligence publications. 
2. Thus, until the first ev.idence of the deployme"ri:t 
began to come in late in July, Washington had no warning 
·of the USSR's intention. Intelligence officers dealing with 
Cuba were focussing during July on the direction Soviet­
Cuban relations _would take following Soviet acquiescence in 
Castro's assertion of his leadership of Cuban Communism in 
the "Escalante affair." This attitude was reflected in 
reporting on the visit of Raul Castro to Moscow ear.ly in 
the month.· The President's Intelligence Checklist, which 
will normally be used in this memorandum as the record of 
CIA reporting to the President, Secretaries of State and 
Defense, General Taylor, and McGeorge Bundy, reported on 
4 July that Raul was "probably seeking more Soviet military 
aid and, specifically, more advanced equipment such as the 
MIG-2ls and surface-to-air missiles which the USSR is 
already providing· to Indonesia, Egypt, and Iraq." The 
Checklist of 19 July, however, noted that Raul had Tert 
Moscow without the usual publicity and-communique, and 
surmised that this was "a pretty good sign that the visit 
was unproductive." (The Central Intelligence Bulletin, 
whenever coordination permitted, carried material generally. 
similar to the content of the Checklist~) 
sc, TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
