l 
( 
believe that the information on Oswald was unusual enough to have 
caused recipients to take special measures which might conceivably 
have led to a closer scrutiny of Lee Harvey Osw~ld and his movements. 
:Mr. Helms pointed out that the information on Oswald's visit to the 
Cuban and Soviet embassies in 11exico City came from telephone inter­
cepts which were placed on both embassies. These intercepts were 
recorded on tape and reviewed by persons at our Station for any infor­
mation affecting U. S. security. Such information is routinely passed 
to other agencies and entered in CLI\. files. Given th2 enormous bulk 
which is involved, the tapes are not kept on file but erased after a brief 
period of time. Thus tha information on Oswald was similar to that 
provided on other American citizens who might have made contacts of 
this type. In Oswald's case, it was the combination of visits to both 
Cuban and Soviet Embassies which caused the ?-Jiexico City Station to 
report this to Headquarters and Oswald's record of defection to the . 
Soviet Union which prompted the Headquarters dissemination. At the 
conclusion of his remarks on this subject, l'v1r. Helms specified that 
the information he had given lVIr. Rap.kin was extren1el sensitive 
10. The Commission, l'.1r. RaILldn said, would be interested in 
any information held by CIA on Jack Ruby. !'.-Ir. Rankin said the Com­
mission staff had prepared a roundup on Ruby, a copy of which he handed 
Mr. Helms. He said he would appreciate any file reflections or commen_ts 
that CIA analysts might make on this material. Ivir. Rankin and .members . 
of his staff then discussed Ruby's con£irr:::1ed trip to Havana in 1959. The 
Commission has received information from an unspecified source that 
Ruby was in Havana again in 1963 under a Czech passport. l'vlr. Ran!dn 
asked whether CIA could provide any assistance in verifying this story. 
Mr. Helms replied that CIA would be limited in its possibility of assist-
ing, ~reme·b,~ These would be carried out he 
said. 
11. Mr. Helms was then asked if CL\ had done any follow up to • 
its original telegraphic dissemination of the information on Oswald's 
visits to the Cuban and Soviet embassies in Mexico City. Mr. Helms 
replied that there had been no CIA action follO'wing our initial dissemi­
nation. Mr. Willems then asked if there were any liaison problems 
faced by CIA in its efforts to deal with other agencies in n1atters affect­
ing internal security. rvir. Helms replied that there were always under­
standable human problems in conducting any liaison on any subject but 
NW 50955 Docld:32202033 Page 3 
-,-. • 
~ 
·ll~ :, : ,, ; :----__ 
t't I~: 1 ~ 
-
