- 3 -
~ -,.'._., 
4. •"~[m..nn Balloons 9ff 
Dr. Scoville gave the Group details of the -operation in the 
:i Sea of Japan, employing balloons against TALL KING radars. He said !• 
:, that the results indicate that perhaps these radars are not as • 
efficient as we had ~hought, but th~t- further analysis i:s pro~eedin0 • 
\-
5. Covert Operations, Cuba 
a. Procedures 
Noting that the shipping sabotage paper of 19 March had 
not been considered by the Cottrell committee as a body, the Special 
Group asked that such proposals be considered in that way before 
submission to the Special Group. In passing the recounnendations to 
the Special Group it s_hould be indicated what the position of the 
various Cottrell members was, just as is done in the case of political 
projects coordinated with State and the ambassador. Each member of 
the Cottrell committee would see to it that his own agency staffed 
the paper in the normal way for submission to the Special Group. 
b. Sabotage of Shipping • 
The substance of the 19 March paper was then considered. 
Mr. McCone raised a question as to exactly what the U.S. objective 
now is in this and related fields, and questioned in addition whether 
we may be trying to manage exile groups too closely .. 
Ther~ was some discussion as tolthe actual value of carrying 
out the proposed sabotage, that is whether enough damage could be 
done to hurt the Castro regime seriously. The consensus of the Group 
seemed to be that activity of this kind should not be undertaken if· 
it could be expected to yield only small gains, but that if its 
effect would be really significant then that would be a different 
matter. 
Considerable doubt was expressed about the proposal for 
sinking and setting fire to ships. None of the members.felt that 
there was any particular objection to the use of abrasives or other 
damaging materials. 
The proposal was then remanded for group consideration by 
the Cottrell committee. This connnittee. is asked to look at the pro­
posal in relation toeeverything else that is going on or is under 
seriou- consideration, in order to assess its true potentiality. 
Mr. FitzGerald was authorized to modify the proposal to the extent 
