87G 
i 
• ~ION-87. SECURITY INVESTIGA1 .• 
(c) Education 
.. 
(d) Marital status ( 
(e) Military service record (domestic or foreign, including type 
·of discharge, citations, etc") 
(f) Identification record 
(g) Employment 
(h) Residence 
(i) Status of health (if known) 
(2) Connections with basic revolutionary groups, front groups, and/or 
other subversive organizations or movements . 
(a) Information concerning admission into group, including sponsors, etc. • • 
• (b) History of activity in, attendance at meetin.gs of, and posi t~ons 
held in subversive movement 
(3) Revolutionary statements by subject . 
(a) Determine each statement and full details surrounding it. 
(b) Determine all statements showing adherence to principles of 
Marxism-Leninism or other revolutionary doctrines~ 
(4) Oth~r activities indicating furtherance of program of subversive 
organizations 
(a) Speeches and writings 
(b) Organizational directives and/or educational outline~ signed 
by or issued by subject, or issued while subject w·as officer 
of organization 
(c) Pertinent contacts between subject and leaders of organizations 
(d) Details concerning subject 1 s attendance or connection with 
subversive training schools 
(5) False statements made by subject, including aliases 
Evidence may be obtained from passports, tax returns, and voting, 
marital, employment, and selective service records. 
(6) .Miscellaneous 
Pertinent items not falling under above categories· (_-
Reports on individuals should be confined to: 
(1) Information as to membership and activity in basic revolutionary 
organizations, front organizations, and/or other subversive 
organizations or unorganized groups 
(2) Position and importance of subject in subversive movement 
(3) Pertinent background information 
J;nclude only information pertinent to determining whether or not 
subject is engaged in subversive activities. Set out date or 
period to which it pertains; e.g .. , John Doe advised on January 15, 
1970, that subject attended CP meetings in January, 1965, in • 
Syracuse, New Yorko 
Summarizing information 
(1) When prior summary reports are not suitable for dissemination, 
include all pertinent information in current summary report with 
sources fully protected. 
(2) Repetitious and cumulative items raay be limited to representative 
number with each item set forth fully documented. Number of items 
will depend upon preponderance of other information showing 
dangerousness of subject. 
(3) When selection of representative number of i terns is made, follm-, with 
summary statement that source advised during specified period 
of time subject also attended certain number of o·ther meetings. 
(Set out file number and serial range in documenting such statements.) 
(4) Where there is extensive activity in subversive organizations, it 
is permissible to use narrative statements without exact dates of 
44 
-4-13-72 
( 
• NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 1944 
I I 
~ 
• I 
I 
I 
~ i 
r I 
! i l 
i I i 
~ 
I 
- -- t 
i 
i 
I 
