5 September 1963 
MEKOI.WG>UM roa RECORD 
' ' 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 5 September 1963 
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr •. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone. 
1. 
Mr. FitzGerald was present for Items 1 and 2. 
Mr. Colby was present for Items 3-5. 
Cuba - Agent Operations 
Mr~ FitzGerald commented on several reports from inside Cuba, 
which indicate that the morale of the people was raised considerably 
as a result of the Santa Lucia and Casilda sabotage operations. Be 
c•utioned that some of these reports might be somewhat overdrawn, 
but it appears certain that the sabotage did have a beneficial effect 
in this way. 
Be then discussed with the Group the general philosophy of these 
operations, and plans for the future within the capabilities of the 
available agents. Among other things, he pointed out that there is 
a limit.ed number of targets on or near the coast and that the moat . 
attractive ones are, at the same time, the most difficult to attack;,;,,·<·,· 
the available teams are not yet ready.for assignments of this difficulty~ 
On the other hand, smaller and more vulnerable targets are being:-selecttd', 
It is proposed to hit a lumber mill. in September. 
Mr~ FitzGerald went on to say, in connection with the. scope and 
pace of these operations, that it would not be desirable to knock out 
all available targets in the near future, even if it were possible 
to do so. This is because this type of attack is designed to stimulate 
.resistance inside Cuba, apart from whatever intrinsic value it might 
The Group agreed with the approach. They felt that the reaction 
to tti., two missions in August was moat satisfactory and that it is 
essential to keep this sort of thing up, selecting a limited number of 
worthwhile targets. Mr. Bundy cOllllllented particularly on the silence 
that had been maintained by the agents, which has resulted in the 
noise level being of a different character than might have been ex­
pected othe:rwiae. Mr. Fit.zGerald was authorized to proceed with a 
• relatively soft target, such as a l.umber mill. 
SECRET 
EYES ONLY 
See special minutes 
for additional items 
I 
r. 
I i i 
I 
