( 
( 
[ 
[ 
A_-
PA.RT II 6A 
SECT- 6. PUBLIC.ATIONS, PRESS, AND .LIC CONTACTS 
PRESS RELEAS"ES 
E~ployees are forbidden to furnish to the press either directly or indirectly 
~ny information concerning Bureau matters without prior authorization from the 
B-c::.eau except in following instances. (Bureau in turn must obtain departmental 
clearance as set forth in Departmental Order 2460.) • . . • . 
1. Bureau authority is granted for SACs to make releases on purely routine 
cases, local in nature, not involving other field divisions, national 
policy, national i·nterest, other Federal agencies, state, ·county, or 
municipal employees, or persons of prominence· whose names would be 
newsworthy in themselves, and where arrests have been made with the 
authorization of the USA in the following classifications. The Bureau 
is to be advised that such releas~s have been made.· 
a. Routine cases in which complaints have been filed 
b. _Selective Service cases~ except whe~ draft boards are involved 
c. Interstate transportation of stolen motor vehicle, except ·when wide­
spread ring~ are involved 
d. White Slave Traffic Act 
e. Deserter cas·es, except charges growing out of the harboring of 
deserters 
f. Illegil wearing of uniform 
g. Impersonation 
h. National Firearms Act 
i. [State Firearms Control Assistance ·11.ct; unlawful possessi_on or 
receipt of firearms] 
j. Extortion 
k. Red Cross Act 
1. • Theft from interstate shipment 
m. May Act 
n. Patent matters 
o. Copyright. matt-ers 
• p. Federal Reserve Act 
. q. Mail fraud 
r .. Falsely claiming citizenship • • • 
s. Illegal manufacture, possession, or wearing of.civil_ defense insignia 
t. Illegal manufacture, sale, or use of military cremation urn 
u. Crimes on the high seas 
v. National Bankruptcy Act 
w. Theft, embezzlement, robbery, illegal possession of;:or destruction of 
Government property 
x. Crimes on Indian reservation 
y. Crimes on Government reservation 
z. Bills of Lading Act 
aa. False entries in records of interstate 9arriers 
ab. Illegal use of a railroad pass 
ac. Interstate transportation of gambling devices 
ad. Interstate transportation of lottery tickets 
ae. Interstate transportation of obscene matter 
·af. Escaped Federal prisoner, escape and rescue, parole violator or 
conditional release violator or probation violator 
ag. Interstate· transportation of stolen property • ·: _,_,. 
ah. Unlawful flight to avoid prosecution, unlawful flight to avoid 
ai, 
aj. 
ak. 
confinement, unlawful flight to avoid giving testimony (Bureau still 
to be promptly 'advised) • 
Bank robbery • 
Interstate transportation of stolen cattle 
Migratory Game Bird Act 
l 
8-27-68 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 292 
