13-00000 
b. Working space was also a ~~-~!, probl~m. From May 
through September 1960 they were working seven or eight in a single 
room. 
c. Dr. Willets, chief of the J<:1I!P refused to release, two 
Jars whom Morales wanted as assistants in Miami. One of these is 
named Ben Ramirez and is very fluent in Spanish. 
10. For the future Simmons recommends: 
a. That an LCFWI'rER operator be assigned to each base 
permanently, no( withstanding the expense. The need for such a man 
\ a'ttimes_ can.'be very urgent. 
b ~ There should be one cleared Staff D room containing 
all relevant files so that the entire Job can be done in one room. 
This means all Staff D files involved, all operating cards 1 personality 
and report cards, so that.for instance, a CI analyst can gqthere and 
do a complete Job in perfect security. The Staff D yteld ~~-~ 
"gold mine". ---·· 
c. If CI section bad been told the time and place of the 
invasion they could have checked 1beir records on the area and the 
adjacent areas and have given the brigade recommendations for 
document seizing, etc. in the towns that would be passed through. 
' I l 
11~ Despite ,difficulties referred to above, Simmons feel that 
the results of his section's work were very good and that one 
indication of this is that the upper echelons ol the Agency sent him 
many matters for handling that were not strictly of a CI nature; for 
instance, inquiries from the DCI, fran Congress, etc. 
12. In cases where the CI Section discovered that an agent 
communicating by radio was not using his safety signals, CI wo~d help 
the PM or other section to handle that agent in subsequent communica­
tions so that he. would be kept alive. This sometimes required that 
requests by the agent for supplies be complied with. In one case WGLOG. 
Simmons vas intent on preserving the man so that he could be used at 
the end for purposes of deception." The agent requested an air drop 
and it was decided to comply. Simmons said that Gen. Cabell disclosed 
to the Cuban aircraft ,11 crew that was to make the air drop that the 
agent was a double agent. According}y the crew did not even go near 
the drop, nor did PM Section advise Simmons until four days later that 
this had occured. The result was that the man was immediately taken 
off the air and Simmons bad .indications that he was shot. If Simmons 
bad been advised earlier of the failure to make the drop, he could 
have tried by a suitable message to explain the omis_sion. 
~ .) iQ_ ,,_ 
R. D. Shea 
,... . ---· . 
I 
