m= AND = 51M1ARY ~[CRH 
Papich began with a brief summary of his experi­
ence in the FBI. During World War II and there­
after he ran certain operations in Latin America. 
In 1945-47, he ran counterintelligence operations 
in Brazil against the Communist Party of Brazil 
and bloc intelligence agents. In 1952 he became 
FBI liaison with CIA charged with coordinating 
and planning, including the development of sources. 
He also h~d special assignments overseas for Hoover. 
Papich presented the following overview of the 
issues. He has a high respect and regard for the 
Soviet intelligence service, its efficiency, 
effectiveness. He must be shown that th~ir 
philosophy has changed since 1970. The p 
of the U. S. intelligence community re 
KGB and GRU is very limited. In 195 
the U. S. intelligence community 
lieved was good information o ucture. 
This had to be readily rev e defectors 
and new operations succee wing that the 
premises were false. Papi ed "they've taken 
us to the cleaners in the las few years". There 
is no estimate of how many Soviet illegals are in 
the United States. The old view was that illegals 
would aim at middle-class government and business 
positions. It has been discovered that they take 
jobs like dishwasher to develop an employment 
background. There is no knowledge of Soviet 
objectives. Illegals may do nothing for years so 
they can be tapped for the future. There may be 
100, 500, or 5,000 of them. Some were sent in as 
early as the 20's and 30's. They are the Rudolph 
Abel-type. His network was never identified. 
Therefore, Papich is clearly unhappy with U. S. 
results in identifying Soviet operations in the 
United States. 
Papich stated that he played a controversial 
"devil's advocate" role between the FBI and the 
CIA. He did not confer with Attorney General 
Mitchell after Helms called his name to Mitchell's 
attention. Papich assumes Helms wanted Mitchell 
to get a review of the history of FBI-CIA relations. 
Papich would not have gone to Mitchell without 
checking with~other FBI officials. 
Nw: 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 3 
Page _L of t:RI 
FILE: 
i.U 
u C: 0 LL. 
