( 
[ 
[ 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9 •. 
10. 
17 
SECTION 107. -CURITY INFORl1ANTS .AND CONFID:8£.-AL SOURCES 107M 
Subfiles 
a. A subfile is required on each informant who submits statement.a, written 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters v,here a 
subfile is necess~ry only in those instances involving possible 
prosecution. The original of each statement, whether personally 
wri·tten by the informant or furnished orally and reduced to writing 
by contacting Kgent, should be filed in this subfile. Executed form 
FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items· 
set forth on form FD-306 should be stapled to the original of each 
such statement. 
b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informan.ts for. secure 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any por~ion 
of statements or notations thereon. 
Channeliza·hion 
Excerpts from the informant 1 s statement are to be included in the regular 
investigative case report when information of value is submitted. Form 
FD-306 may be used to disseminate this information to the case file in 
lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired, If so used, prepare 0opies 
of FD-306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy 
.of the informant 1·s statement being _channelized, Channelizati_on should be 
·noted on ·original FD-306 and on all copies ·under "Remarks, 11 
Channelizing .memoranda - destruction of 
For i:ns·truc·tions .c·oncerning the .-destruction .. of cfhanneiizing memoranqa,. 
see Manual of Rules arid ReguYations. 
Dissemination of information 
Information submitted by informants, potential informants, confidential 
sources, or sources of information should be reported to the Bureau and 
interested offices and other agencies·whenever necessary by the appro­
priate means of communication under captions showing the sui.·~ ect matter 
of the information. 
Correspondence 
Correspondence submitted. in s_ecU:rity informant and potential security 
informant matters should be strictly limi tea to the admini str·a·hi ve 
handling of the informant and should not contain information more prop­
erly furnished to the Bureau under a substantive case caption. • 
Maintenance of files· 
a. .All pe_nding files on security informants shall be maintained under _ 
lock and key under the personal supervision of the ·s.A.C, .AS.A.C, or field 
super-visor as the informant ·indices are maintained and described in • 
subsection K. • 
b. Subfiles ·containing wri~ten statements may be maintained in the ·open 
files section; provided .there is no disclosure of the informantt.s 
identity on the statements. 
c. All informan-t files should be maintained in such a manner as to insure 
that all information furnished by a particular informant will be 
immediately available upon the request of the Bureau. 
d. In addition, these files should be maintained in such a fashion that 
the identities of the cases in which an informant has furnished 
competent evidence can be furnished immediately to the Bureau by 
simply ref errih~ to the file of the informant :and without i:,-:.e neoe ssi ty 
of conQuoting extensive research, 
Use of informant by Department - filing corre~pondence re 
From time to time, the Department expresses an interest in using a partic­
ular informant for testifying ·when he "becomes available as a witness . 
.As a result, there will be correspondence showing·this situation between 
the Bureau and the field. Place copies of all suoh correspondence in 
the informant's file. Occasionally suoh correspondence may be volu­
minous and apply to more than one informant. In those cases, summarize 
the information concerning each particular informant and place the summary 
in the appropriate· informant ts file. 
Form FD-238 
Form FD-238 (printed on pink paper) has been approved for use in security 
informant and potential security informant files. It is to be use~ in 
the nature 6f a table of contents or as an index to show where in the 
file particular data oan be found. This form is to be kept as the top 
17 
4-15-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1560 
