13-00000 
TOP SECRET 
On March. 17, 1960, less than two weeks 
after my return from Puerto Rico, I 
ordered the Central Intelligence Agency 
to begin to organize the training of 
Cuban exiles, mainly in Guatemala, against 
the possible future day when they might 
return to their homeland. More specific 
planning was not possible because the 
Cubans living in exile had made no move 
to select from among. their numbers, a 
of a mystery. Certainly the proposals. by one J.E. 
Pond, Jr., reflect at least, Pond's youth and immatur­
ity. For among other things in his memorandum, Mr. 
Pond suggest.ed that· the Navy: "Accept Mr. Merchant's 
offer in his letter of March 10 to Admiral Burke of 
a complet~ briefing of State Department activities 
vis-a-vis the Cuban situation in an effort to prod 
State to move faster~" Or, with reference. to action 
that the State Department should take, he suggested: 
"Brief all individuals and groups of U.S. nationals 
going to Latin America on the Kommunist [sic] threat 
in Cuba for further dissemination to ho'st country 
personnel." Two items which had not appeared in other 
of the papers related to the evolution of US policy 
to oust .Castro which were introduced by Mr., Pond, 
were 'that the IADB (Inter-American Defense Board) 
become involved in the anti-Castro effort -- an exceed­
ingly naive suggestion considering that the members 
of this group were far from.unanimous .in condemning 
the Castro Revolution. And the second unique contri-
.bution of this paper which Admiral Burke saw fit to 
forward to two very senior members of the Executive 
Branch, was the spelling throughout the-paper of 
Communist with a "K". These last proposals that Ad­
miral Burke.had forwarded to the Director of Central 
Intelligence ended up in the files of Chief; .Western 
, Hemisphere Division. The memorandum having been sent 
down from Mr. Bissell's office, with the following 
notation to Col. King: 
Admiral Burke sent this over to the 
Director on the ·afternoon of 17 March, 
and the latter handed [it] to me. I do 
not believe it requires a reply, but 
pass it to you for any value it may 
have.• 
- 78 -
TOP SECRET 
