.. •~ .. ...... ~_ -... :f • " ✓ 
• 
I• 
I 
' 
i 
.. 
I 
• 
.; 
• • 
l ... _{ 
j • 
any State, (2) o.r which seek to .overthrow the '4overnment of 
the United States, or any State or subdivision 1jthereof, by 
unlawful means. (Emphasis added). . • • . . . 
Of course, the key words which are underl·ned indicate 
that the investigation sho~ld be initially based on a possible 
violation of a federal (such as the Smith Act) or state statute 
prohibiting unlawful advocacy or the commission of any unlawful 
act of force or violence. However, in order for the Bureau to 
detect organizations with a potential'of. the above-nature, it 
is import2..nt that the investigation proceed. on the basis of in­
formation indicating tha·i;. the organization may be of the natur·e 
mentioned. It is not necessary -that a crime occur before the 
investigation is initiated, but only that a reasonable evaluation 
of the available information suggests that the activities of the 
organization may £all within the proscription of the Order. The 
most recent example of ·the type of organization, that you have 
advised is becoming more prevalent, is the small but dedicated 
to violence, Symbionese Liberation Army (SLA). Organizations of 
~his nature w9uld clearly fall within the Order and should be 
investigated as soon as information is available indica\i~g their 
potentiality for violence and of course, if possible, prior to 
the fulfillment of their purposes. 
It is true that Executive Order 11785 eliminated the prior 
communist, totalitarian, fascist, and subversive characterizations 
~na definitions, but there was no intention of restricting the 
investigations of such organizations if their programs call for 
acts of force or violence or the unlawful advocacy of the com­
mission of acts of force or violence in furtherance of these 
programs. 
It is not possible to set definite para~eters covering the 
·initi~tion of investigations of potential organizations falling 
within the Order but once the investigation reaches a stage that 
offers a basis for determining that the ~ctivities are le~al in 
nature, then the investigation should cease 1 but if the investi­
gation suggests a determination that the organization is engaged 
in illegal activities or potentially illegal activities it should 
continueo 
It follows in answer to your second question that individ­
uals'who are active either as members of or as affiliates of 
2 
tr 
l NW 38326 Docld:329396-03 Page 51 
