[ 
-
107M - N SECTIOU ., "7. SECURITY INFORI11\NTS .AND. CONl,\1'.DEl'lTIAL SOURCES 
.
) . .) 
.... ' ,,. 
N. 
[12. J 
document int pertinent informant file and Aot to be serialized. 
If a particular section of this form is not a~-0able, such should be 
noted thereon. If it later becomes applioable, the serial number can be 
noted at that time. 
BuHy material submitted by informant 
Where informant or source submits bulky material other than a. statement 
and same pertains to a specific investigative matter, bulky material may. 
be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of executed 
·form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
set forth on form FD-306. In such a case, the original form FD-306 or 
channelizing memorandum should be filed in the subfile of the informant 
or source and the file and serial number where the bulky material is 
located should be noted thereon. 
PAYMENTS TO IN'FORMAJrTS .AUD HANDLING :MONEY RECEIVED 
1. No gifts to informants . 
. . a. Gifts should not be given to informants since such actions might be 
misco:istrued.. 
b. Relationship between Agents a,nd informants shall be maintained on 
a businesslike basis. 
c. Expenditures for gifts to informants will not be approved as blue 
slip i t·ems. 
/ 
a. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
representatives of .companies, private· indus-1;ries, or insurance companies 
and request assistance regar.ding payments of money, gifts, or products 
of such companies to informants. 
2. SAC authority to pay informants . . 
a. In speoific instances in which it is necessary and expedient to 
expend money to obtain information concerning matters or persons 
under investigation, which is not otherwise obtainable, or to advance 
expense money to enable an individual to obtain such information, 
SAC ma~ approve payments of amounts up to $200 and totaling not more 
than $200 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of the number of payments. 
Th(s applies only to individuals who have never bee~ regularly paid 
for services or expenses on Bureau authorization. In ~ther words, 
onoe an individual has been paid on Bureau authorizatl • , regardless 
of the amount, this authority of the SAC may not be u .: .ized. • 
b. Indiv.idual who is paid on SAC authority should not be d~scribed in 
correspondence as an informant or source who is being paid on a 
"regular basis" or on "Bureau authorization, tt 
o. The blue slip reclaiming any of these payments authorized by th·e SAC 
must clearly and accurately explain the circumstances and summarize the 
information obtained so the Bureau will be in a position to pass 
intelligently such blue slips for payment, • 
d. Prior Bureau authority must be obtained to make any additional p2yment 
to an individual who has received payments totaling $200. 
3. Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority 
a.. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau autho,:,~za­
. tion. . 
b. In requesting this authorization, .a justification must be set forth 
containing the following items and using the subheadings shown. 
~ --fin espionage and foreign nationality matters, use subheadings 
• •· where applicable.) • .. . . . __ _ . .. . . 
-..~"- . (1} Recommendation . 
(Use following wording as nearly as possible: 
"I recommend that ·authority be granted to . -:.-, 
continue {increase, decr~ase) payments to the 
above informant up to$ (amount) per (month, week) 
for services, plus up to$ (amount) per (month, wee; 
for expenses actually incurred for a period of months; 
effective __ (date).") . --
18 
3-1;3-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1415 
11 
