13-00000 
PAGE 2 
Chicago Tribune, October 3, 1993 
Poking in the garbage 
11 
When you read al.l the conspiracy books, it• s apparent they can• t all be 
right because they flatly contradict each other," he said. "I knew there was 
garbage on the reco~d. I didn't know how much." 
After he debunked as many inaccuracies and false leads as he could, he 
assumed there would be some issues that would require further investigation;· 
perhaps questions about acoustics or ballistics or possible Mafia involvement. 
Yet toward the end of his research, Posner notified Bob Loomis, his editor at 
Random House, that he had taken an unexpected turn. 
11 I was convinced the Warren Commission had gotten it right. The evidence was 
overwhelming,11 he said. 
Posner also was aware, of course, that a large majority of the populace 
thinks the Warren Commission had gotten it wrong, maybe on purpose. 
He got a feel for such skepticism when Loomis, vice president and executive 
editor of Random House, took his own poll at the next meeting of the publishing 
house• s top editors, who periodically gather to report on works in progress. 
11
Bob told them about what I'd found and asked how many believed the Warren· 
Commission was right, 11 Posner said. "Remember, these are som.e of the brightest, 
best-informed, best-educated people in New York City, and no one raised a hand 
except Bob Loomis." 
Posner was not dismayed. 11When people cite polls showing 70 or 80 or even 90 
percent of the public as believing the assassination was the result of a 
conspiracy, I say I'm surprised it 1 s·not 100 percent when you consider that 
people have essentially heard only one side for three decades." 
'JFK' an •abomination' 
A 1978 congressional inv~stigation estimated that ·2,000 books, including 
those that are self-published, had been written on the subject. All but a 
handful present a variety of sometimes-elaborate scenarios about plotters, 
motives, killers and cover-ups, and as a rule, the conspiracy books make 
bestseller lists, while the others don't. 
"Then there are the TV documentaries, which are invariably pro-conspiracy, 11 
Posner said. 
0
A recent one was a five-hour British film for Arts & Entertainment 
called 'The Men Who Killed Kennedy.' 11 
And most influential of all, he said, is Oliver Stone's $50 million movie, 
"JFK," released in late 1991. 
"Half of our country's present population weren't born Cas of> November 1963. 
Stone's movie is a historical abomination that's filled with demonstrable 
falsehoods, but to young people, it's a documentary. 
11Even if they read articles cri ticiz.ing it, they say, 'Well, Stone may have 
exaggerated, but there's got to be something there.' Believe it or not, there I s 
not.
11 
3rvices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
