[ . 
SECURITY INVESTJG~TI 
• 
87C 
d. Other ~arxist revolutionary groups 
.A long-established group which noulcl come under this catet::ory :i.s. j~he 
Proletarian P?.rty of .A.rrie1·ica, a rclativuly smo.11 organi~rntjon •. :~::: 
There also are a few small groups composed of cx-m<imhers o.f the 
Communist Party, USA, who have volunt;ar·ily left. the }?arty or· who 
have been expelled, usually for factionalism. 
e. General 
Communist investigations must be conductccl in a rnost discx·eet and 
thorough manner at all times o Members of law en.forccmcn'L ;~gencies 
are not to accom1)any Agents durln& the course of security-typo • 
investigations without prior Bureau authority. Bureau employees 
should not discuss corr.munis·t or related investiga"d.ons wi-Lh any 
una.uthori:ted indiv:ldualo The subject of commun.i.sm is not to be 
,; used in speeches of Bureau employees without specific authorization. 
'. µowever, there is considerable mimeographed material in each offjce, 
'",:rncluding speeches~ testimony, and ma.ia:dne • a?·ticles prepared ·by the 
Director which could be furnished outside individuals interested in 
the subject of communism without any discussion. 
Purposes of investign.tion 
a. The investigation of the Communist Party, US.A, and other similar-type 
organizations is of twofold purpose: (1) to ol)ta.in legally admissible 
evidence against these organizations for prosecutibn under existing 
Federal statutes set out above and (2) to follow closely the activities 
of these organi:.:ations from an intelligence viewpoint to have a day­
to-day appraisal of the atrength, dangerousness, and activities of 
these organizations seeking the overthrow of the u. s. Gov-ernment. 
b., Suggestions for proper coverage of the investigation of the Communist 
Party as an organization and simil~r organizations sho1.i"ld include: 
Oo 
(1) The assignment of sufficient Agent personnel to insure that all 
of the important ramifications of party activities are properly 
covered 
(2) Development of confidential informants in all party ?,evels, 
including the national headquarters organization 
(3) 
(4) 
[Deleted] 
The constant effort to develop admissible evidence aJain~t party 
officials for violation of Federal laws 
Brief to eQtablish illegal status of Commi..nist Party, US.A 
(1) Purpose of brief is to collect all legally admissible evidence 
to prov-e illegality of party in one fii"e. (Bufile 100-3.....,74.) 
(2.). Reports on brief to establish illegal status must be s-ubmitted 
by each office quarterly and sho1,ld include only legr~lly . . 
admissible e,ridence obtained during preceding three..:mo:.ith ·period. 
If there is no information to report, include a statement to that· 
effect in the cover pages of the quarterly report for the same 
period entitled "Communist Party, USA, Internal Security - C" 
{no copy needed for Bufile 100-3-74). • • 
(3) It is advisable to use the following ~~eakdown in p~eparlng 
reports: 
(a) Origin and continuity 
(b) Pertinent statements, 
(1) Marxism-Leninism? 
interna t :i.o na.li-sm, ( 4 J 
statements 
of the· party 
writings, and instruct:io1is relating. 
(~) imperialism, (3) proleta~ian 
defense of US·SR, (5) revolutionary 
to 
(c) Int~rnal Security .Act of 1959. Include under this 
headinJ any admissible evidence which would tend to prove 
a violation of section 4(a) of this act. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page £00 
5 
4-13-65 
