( 
' ' . ' I 
\ 
-J7-
'·three '45-caliber machine guns and 500 rounds of ammunition, The Navy 
said he had three machine guns himself "but can be identified 
by serial numbers as having been issued to him. Therefore unable to 
use them." (Santiago 562, 18 October) (colonel Wimert)and the Chief 
of Station have testified that the officers wanted the machine guns 
for self-protectiono The question, of course, is whether the arms were 
intended for use, or were used, in the kidnapping of General Schneider. 
The fact that the weapons were provided thelP,Gg~o~yand the Navy 
~nd that Viaux associates were convicted of the Schneider killing 
I 
suggests that the guns were not involved. 
The machine guns and ammunition were se..c from Washington by diplo­
matic pouch on the morning of October 19, although Headquarters was 
puzzled about their purpose: "Will continue make effort provide them 
' but find our ctedulity stretched by Nav~ "leading his troops 
\_ 
with sterile guns. What is special purpose for these guns? We will 
try send them whether you can provide explanation or. not." (Headquarters 
854, 18 October) The first installment was delivered to the ArmY(. 
~ 
, and the Navy, - ~ 
late in the evening of October 18 and con-
sisted of the six tear gas grenades intended originally for Viaux.* 
* As previously stated, after October 15 CIA efforts to promote a coup in 
Chile focussed on the active duty military officers--Valenzuela, et. al.-­
rather than Viaux. An ex le of this ~if in ocus was the decision to 
provide the Army and the Arlfiy Gaptla,I the tear gas grenades 
originally intended iaux. A cable from Santiago explained the purpose of 
this action: 
Station plans give six tear gas grenades to 
(Colonel Wimert) for delivery to Armed Forces 
officers (deletion) instead of having(False 
Flag Office9 deliver them to Viaux group. 
Our reasoning is that {Iiimert)dealing with, 
active duty officers. Also/False Flagger) 
leaving evening 18 _October, and will not be 
replaced but(Wi.mert) w_ill stay here, Hence 
important that/ Wimert/ credibility with Armed 
Forces officers be strengthened. 
(Santiago 562, 18 October) 
• 
-
-
