.,/ 
DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING 
UNITED STATES POLICY IN 
VIETNAM.,. WASHINGTON,. n.c. 
JANUARY ~5, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL 
with individual Congressmen in their offices. These women 
were to attempt to persuade Congressmen to lend their support 
to end the w;:ir in Vietnam. The source indicated that the°' 
organization had written to Speak.er McCormick. and Senator 
Mansfield asking to be met on the Capitol steps but Speak.er 
McCormick. haq answered by stating that he could not meet 
them on the steps but he would be willing to receive a 
delegation of ten to fifteen women in his office on that 
date. The source stated that Senator Mansfield had not 
replied to their request. 
' L 
",, 
The source ·stated that some of the wonien in the 
JRB want t9 commit acts of civil disobedience so that they 
may be arrested but most of the individuals involved do 
not think. it advisable to commit acts of civil disobedience. 
The source stated th~t at no time have any specific details, 
been mentioned as to the acts of civil disobedience which 
might be committed. The source stated that following the 
visit to Congress, the women would like to hold a meeting 
sometime be·tween 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. at some logical site in 
Washington, D.C. Source .stated that negotiations are 
under way to rent the DQC0 Armory for that time and they. 
have the ·money available for such rental but some of the 
leaders object to a clause in the contract which would 
allow the Armory to. can ce 1 the re se:rva t ion at ·any time . 
The source stated that negotiations are also under,vay 
to rent a ballroom at the Shoreham Hotelo 
According to the source, 3,000 women are expected 
to participate in the above de~onstration with most of them 
coming by train from N_ew .. ¥9FlL City. The source stated that 
Sylvia-_\I.,ichtenstein has been appointed coordinator of the 
demonsfra tion o • • • 
A second source, who has furnished 
reliable information in the pa·st, 
advised on July 10, 1951, that Sylvia 
Lichtenstein was a member of the Newspaper 
Club of the Communist Party in the District 
of Columbia from 1947 to 1950. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
- 2 -
NW 88321 Docld:32989544 Page 166 
