i . . 
Feb. 1963 - Nov. 1967 
Feb. 1962 - Feb. 1963 
July 1960 - Feb. 1962 
May 1959 - July 1960 
i. 
; ; 
the tape and distributed it to all radio stations in the 
Seventh District; wrote and recorded grant announcements 
in my voice to be broadcast on the radio; wrote and edited 
statements for presentation to House and Senate Committees; 
responsible for contact with newspaper, radio and T. V. 
reporters; read District newspapers and clipped to maintain 
a knowledge of events in the District.· 
Secretary to Mr. John Marshall, Executive Vice President 
National Association of Dairy Equipment Manufacturers, 
1012 14th Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
DUTIES: Opened and sorted the mail; -compiled and typed 
industry statistical reports; took dictation; answered 
correspondence; kept two sets of books (we operated two 
trade associations); arranged for membership meetings 
throughout the country; made appointments and travel.· 
arrangements for Mr. Marshall; and handled purchasing for 
office supplies and equipment. 
Promotional Secretary for Mr. Leland M. Biggs at the· 
National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, 
2000 Florida Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
DUTIES: Correspondence; typed news releases; took 
dictation; operated a dictaphone machine for material 
which the-management consultants in the department had 
dictated for manuals; promoted seminars and workshops 
available to members of the association, designed art work 
and brochures; handled registration and fees; typed manuals 
and acted as hostess for these seminars and workshops; 
corresponded regularly with the members; and maintained 
mailing list of the membership. 
Legal Secretary for Capt. Paul A. A. St. Amour and 
2nd Lt. Richard Keshin, U. S. Marine Corps, Quantico, Va. 
DUTIES: Transcribed military court martials; typed. 
briefs, wills and other legal documents; military 
correspondence; took dictation concerning military 
investigations. 
Secre_tary for Mr. Robert Morgan, Manager, Ryder Truck 
Lines, 860 King Street, Athens, Georgia. 
DUTIES: Typed statistical reports and waybills; took 
dictation; correspondence; operated long-line cornmuni~·-· 
cation system connecting our office with the home office 
in Florida to report the day's operation. 
