() 
' !) ..... ..: 
"General Lansdale: ... the meeting at which they 
said that was still on a development of my original 
task, wh:l.r,h was a revolt and an overthrow of a 
regime. At the same time, we were getting intelligence 
accumulating very quickly of something very different 
taking place in Cuba than we had expected, which was 
the Soviet techni"cians starting to come in and the 
possibilities of Soviet missiles being placed there ... 
At that time, I thought it would be a possibility 
someplace down the road in which there would be some 
possible need to take action such as /~ssassination/."*/ 
(Lansdale, p. 21). - - -
Lansdale stated that he had only one brief conversation with Harvey 
after the August 13 memorandum in which Harvey stated "he would look into it ... 
see about developing some plans" but that was the last Lansdale ever heard 
of the matter. (Lansdale, p. 124). Lansdale stated that with the develop­
ment of the Missile Crisis, Mongoose i'was being rapidly shifted out of con-
sideration" a1:~_thus 
11
I wasn't pressing for answers ... it w.:::s 
very obvious that another situation was developing that would be handled 
quite differently in Cuba." (Lansdale, P. 124). 
Lansdale testified that he was "very certain" that a discussion of a 
Castro assassination plan or proposal never came up in his discussions with 
Robert Kennedy or with President Kennedy, and that he had originated the 
request to Harvey for plan without discussing the matter with anyone: 
"Q: ... Why, if it is true that assassination idea 
was turned down on August 10, you sent out your 
memo of August 13?" 
"General Lansdale: ... I don't recall that thoroughly, 
I don't remember the reasons why I would." 
"Q: Is it your testimony that the August 10 meeting 
turned down assassinations as a subject to look into, 
and that you nevertheless asked Mr. Harvey to !ook 
into it?" 
"General Lansdale: I guess it is, yes. The way you 
put it to me now has me baffled about why I did it. 
I don't· know. 11 (Lansdale,, pp. 123-124. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 214 
