j ' 
i ' 
I. Carry-over from Church report 
A. Relationship between agencies and Warren Commission 
!.. Warren Comm. staff has never been interviewed in 
depth. Many have not been interviewed at all. The 
Com.mission had particular staff assigned to (a) Cuba 
and (b) organized cri~e. They, especially, should be 
fully debriefed about everything that happened in their 
contacts with the agencies, their frustrations, unful­
filled leads, inability to get access, questionmarks, 
and what they knew, heard, or suspected about contacts 
at high- level bewween Commission members and top agency 
officials. This would include leads to additional 
documents, memoranda and people, and is especially 
important in the time-frame just before the Commission 
issued its report, i.e. as final drafts being written, 
when staff learned for the first time about Castro's 
threat. (Willens, staff director, said there were staff 
pushing hard tp re-open this subject, but pressure of 
getting the report out prevailed.) 
2. Look for all other memoranda of contacts between 
McCone and CIA· re how to structure questions, etc. 
3. We now know: that Ruby was contacted svereal times 
by: FBI to inform on £lllX!IJHKi:xel!ixm::ximexi:Hxlllai:i:asxaxea:x 
,('"criminal element" in Dallas area. All we've seen 
is the cumrnary memo in which Wareen Commission was 
so'.in:formed. Get each memorandum of contact between 
FBI agents and'.Ruby, i.e. underlying materials which 
"suppC?rt" the summary memo. 
B. The inter-agency commi'ttee which met to develop 
continegncy plans in the wake of Castro's threat. 
1. 'Numerous documents were sought from FBI, CIA, 
Defense, State, etc., but neve~ received by Church 
CoT(lmi.ttee before our final report was issued. Must 
follow-through, and then go deeper into it. 
2. what else was known besides Castro's retaliation 
threat? What facts went into the assessment that 
Castro might retaliate against U.S. lead~rs in Latin 
America, but not u. s. leaders in the u. S .'? Precisely 
what ~ccounted for the/~orifinal inclusion of 
a concern about retaliation in the U.S., but the sub­
sequent deletion of that prospect? Who ~as resoonsible 
for the deletion, and what impact, if any, did that 
haye on the later ¢f. withholding of info: 'from the 
Warren Commission and on the agencies' failure to 
inves~igate retaliation? 
'I_ • 
! ,I • ' 
3. We1 must find out exactly who was on this Committee 
.at ea9h meeting, get all back-up materials, and interview. 
I ·, ·, 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 82 
-
. 
L.... 
i• 
