... 
[ 
( 
[ 
( 
SECT.ION· 107 .• H:CURI'fY INFORM.A.NTS AND COHFID-IAL SOURCES 107A - B 
A. DEFINITIONS 
1. Security in.f ornrn.n·t; 
Individual actively engaged •in obtaining and furnishing current infor­
ma :•:ion on security matters exclusively for Bureau and whose identity 
muct be protected. Such person should be a member or at·l;end meetings 
of a subversive organization~ such as the Communist Party;·or be in· 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or ~spionage 
activities or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal that he is able to obtain and does provide current infor~ 
mation of Yalue. 
2. Potential security informant 
Indi-vidual in a position to become active in a sub,-ersive organiza•!;ion 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be 
in a position actively to obtain and furnish current information ·l;o 
Bureau. 
·3. Double agent 
.A specialized ·l;ype of security informant; a person who is coope-rating . 
with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreign 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance. 
4. Confidential source 
.A~ individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available 
·(;o him through his present position. Examples would. be: bankers, telephone 
company employees, American employees of foreign official e~tablishmen-L~, 
[and)employees of the United Nations Secretariat. These individuals make 
no concerted effort on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain and 
furnish information readily available to them. 
B. SOURCES OF POTENTIAL SECURITY INFOR11.ANTS 
Informants should be deYeloped on all organizations and individuals ·that 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown tha·(; potential 
informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal investi­
gative activity. Live informant coverage depends for the most part upon 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agent·s and SACs. For assist_ance 
in obtaining poten·tial informan·!;s, the following is suggested: 
1. Evaluati~n of 
a. Complainants in security matters 
b. Persons interviewed in connection with security oases 
c. Subjec·(;s of securi•l;y investigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity. financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation of party loya~ty 
d. Bureau a.pplican·l;s as possible informants 
e. Personal fr.iends and contac~s of Special Agents and· other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidential sources, and contacts on con-
tinuous basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
3, Review of reserve index 
4. .As certain pos si bili•ties of reactivating former confidenti:;,.J_ informar1ts. 
5. [Deleted] 
6. Review factionalism section of f.iJ.e- on Communist ·Party, US.A. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffecti.on 
on the part of Communist Party members. They, of course, should not be 
informed as to the purpose of the in_quiry. • 
8 ! Review of files on conmmnist front organizations looking for individuals 
who have been associated with only one or two fronts or who a-!:;tended only 
a few m~etings of a. front. Such individuals frequen·tly are innocent of 
communist propensities, yet they have ;a basis for cultivaiing the 
acquaintance of par·l;y members. 
3 
10-14-64 
l NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1586 
