13-00000 
--------:----,-,--..,.,.,-,~-----,-,---,--.,..,...,---------·-·--·-· -· 
(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964) 
NOSENKO went to Gorkiy on the fourth day after CHERE­
PANOV's disappearance. The area was covered with very deep 
woods, "where a person could loS: himself for life". On the 
seventh day CHEREPl\~OV was located and arrested in Bal-:u, 
where he was on his.way to the Iranian border. 
A special plane was immediately sent to Baku, carrying 
S,M. FEDOSEYEV and several other American Department offi­
cers. They brought Cl!EREPANOV iffiITledia te ly Lack to Moscow, 
interrogating him on tile plane, He immediately confessed 
to having given the documents to the Americans. t'ihen asked 
why, he said he was "angry at the KGR, very angry", ar,d 
besides, he thought he might ask the Americans for som,~ 
money in return for the documents. He confessed that on 
4 November he had passed the documents to an American tourist:. 
who was a librarL1n interested in Russian books. He said he 
had given the documents to the American in the entrance 
hallway in the building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 
the building in which the Ministry of Foreign Trade wa:, also 
housed. 
Because CIIEREP.l\NOV haJ eluded the I(GB between the two 
fixed surveillance posts which had been established, the 
Second Chief Directorate suffered consider~ble criticism 
for not putting CIIEnEPANOV under full, round-the-clock 
surveillance. CHEH.EPMJOV himself, however, told the KGD 
that if he had detected his surveillants he would have 
written to the sovernrrwn t • and newspapers a letter of protest 
against "such an ifidignity, such persecution", and then 
would have committed suicide, leaving the KGD without proof 
of lus guilt. 
sensitive sources, 
Comment: Other sources, including 
have also reported various aspects of the 
CIIEREPANOV incident. 
NOSENKO's assertions with respect to the 
CHEREPANOV case, however, are not material to 
his claim that he was Deputy Chief of the 
Seventh Department at the time. 
313 
TS No. 197124 
Iop Secret Copy 10 
