13-00000 
• • 
C-. 
'.-
0 
0 
...... -, 
_✓;· ' 
y 
f' 
DDO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 Septe~ber 197~ 
exchange programs ( except certain Fulbright grantees-see paragraph 5.b., 
above) are considered to be in a separate sensitive category. Operational 
use of such individuals while they are actively participating in an exchange 
program funded by the U.S. Government requires special consideration 
and approval by the Deputy Director for Operations prior to such use. In 
certain especially worthwhile cases wherein the operational use of a par­
ticular U.S. Government supported exchangee is considered essential to 
the accomplishment of the DDO mission, the Deputy Director for Opera-
- tions may grant approval. Memoranda requesting such approval will be 
forwarded through the Chief, Foreign Resources Division. In such cases the 
Deputy Director for Operations will determine whether or not to seek the 
concurrence of the U.S. Government sponsor. • • 
i. Members of Educational or Private Voluntary Organizations_ _ 
( 1) It is U.S. Government policy that no federal agency shall provide· any 
covert financial assistance or support, direct or_ indirect, to • any of the 
nation's educational or private voluntary organizations. This policy 
applies to all foreign as well as domestic activities of such organiza­
tions. In compliance with the above proscription, DDO policy requires 
the most careful scrutiny of all cases involving operational-contact with 
U.S. educational or private voluntary organizations including trade and 
professional organizations. The operational use of any employee, staff 
member or official of such an organization requires prior approval by 
• the Deputy Director for Operations. 
0
The Deputy Director for Opera­
tions will determine whether or not to seek extra-Agency approval for 
the conduct of such operations. • 
( 2) Operational use including covert funding abroad of -foreign~based 
_ international voluntary organizations and the personnel thereof is per­
mitted even if the organization is also funded by U.S. private voluntary 
organizations. • 
· J• Officials or Employees of the African-American Institute 
Operational U:se of the officials or employees of the --African-American 
Institute requires prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations. • 
Contacts with such individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in 
their cover capacities will not involve operational matters until the approval •• 
of the Deputy Director for Operations has been secured. 
k. Volunteers to America 
Operational use of or operational contact with members of Volunteers to 
America while they are on assignment in the United States will not be 
made without the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Op~rations. 
Volunteers to America are participants in programs established by various 
foreign countries in collaboration with the Department of State as a 
:ii 
SECRET 
