I 
11 . .,.. 
/' -~ 
.. /(',· 
( 
Airtel to SAC, Albany 
RE: DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING UNITED STATES 
'POLICY IN VIETNAM, WASHINGTON, D. C·. ·; 
JANUARY 8, 1968 
The Secretary of the Brigade has been identified 
as Vivian Hallinan, the wife of Vincent Hallinan who in 1966 
was identified as the Treasurer for the, American Institute 
of Marxist Studies, a communist f.ront organization. 
One.source has described the Brigade as a "one-shottt 
organization formed by women in various cities to hold demon­
strations "all over" the u.s. on 1/8/68. 
•, 
In its call for the above demons·tration, Brigade 
literature urges ·participants to enter the U .s. -Cong-.eess to 
present demands :for an ·end to the war. 
All offices im.~ediate~y alert sources concerning 
this-demonstration. All information developed is to be 
immediately reported to the Bureau and Washington Field by 
teletype followed by memorandum, original and ten copies, 
under the above caption for dissemination to all interested 
agencies, Teletypes must contain sufficient identifying 
data to enable the Bureau to characterize organizations and 
individuals supporting the demonstration without resorting 
to file reviews. Such statements as na Security Index 
subject'" or "subject of a Bureau investigationn should not• 
be used. The Bureau is not to be referred to its files for· 
identifying inf·ormation. 
It is essential that all ind1viduals With subversive 
backgrounds and subversive organizations participating in 
this demonstration be identified. 
Informant coverage of. groups that plan to supper~ 
the Brigade and to participate in the demonstration is to 
be arranged. It is imperative that the Bureau be able to 
pinpoint subversive organizations and individuals partici­
pating in the demonstration. 
Each office is to make particular effort to 
develop information regarding the financial backing of 
individuals and groups that may participate in the demon­
stration. 
- 2 -
NW 38321 Oodd:32989545 Page 230, 
le. Udl!,-1~ 
I p. 
