13-00000 
Computers in Science Fiction - II 
Marcia Ascher 
/ltofessor of Mathematics 
Ithaca College 
Ithaca, N. Y. 14850 
, .. 
•in wanes fiction writing, non-specialists attempt to involve other non-specialists in 
the human questions arising from computer use.'' 
In "The Computer and the Poet," Norman Cousins 
emphasizes that the role of poets, "those who have 
respect for and speak to the human spirit," bec_omes 
even more important as computer usage increases (32). 
Science fiction writers should indeed be included as 
poets in our technological age. All too often in 
our society, problems arising from technology are 
left to technologists because others are too unsure 
of their own knowledge to question or criticize. The 
science fiction writings directly involving comput­
ers are one of the few places where non-specialists 
attempt to involve other non-specialists in the 
human questions arising from computer use. 
Emphasis on Man 
Perhaps the most recurrent science fiction theme 
is the difference between computers and man. These 
raise the question of the proper role for machines 
versus the proper role for humans or emphasize the 
aspects that make man unique. In one story (Asimov, 
"Someday") children in a society where reading and 
writing are no longer needed form a secret society 
to learn just for the joy of it; in another (Weir, 
•What Happened to the Teaching Machine") where a 11 
learning is by machine, only uneducated children 
still know how to pose questions. A super-computer 
1s defeated by a human because he can bluff or "lose 
to win" and it cannot (Cai den, The God ~la chine); 
another super-computer is robbed of its control be­
cause of a group of humans whose main desire is 
freedom (Pohl, Starchi ld); and to others (Dick, "The 
Variable Man"; Sheckley, "Fool's Mate") human unpre­
dictability continues to be a problem. This distinc­
tive aspect of man is very directly stated by the 
computer builder in a French science fiction story 
(Boulie, "The Perfect Robot"). In trying to make 
the computer more like man, he progressively adds to 
Its ability to deal with data, the ability to play 
chess, language, concepts of love, the ability to 
engender new machines, concepts of good and evil, 
and finally what he considers to be the crucial 
missing element - "I have unhinged them". Mike, a 
super-computer capable of running an entire revolu­
tion (Heinlein, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress), can­
■ot understand why a joke is funny, and the computer 
AM (Ellison, "I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream") 
hates people because unlike them "he could not wan­
der, he could not wonder, be could not belong, he 
could merely be". 
Science fiction writers persist in confronting 
their readers with a question that receives little 
direct discussion but is of current concern. As ex­
pressed by the historian Bruce Mazelish (33), just 
as continuities were established with the material 
universe, the animal kingdom, and our.subconscious, 
we are faced with transcending the 4th discontinuity 
- of harmonizing our existence and those of mach­
ines in a technological society. Or, as expressed 
by Weizenbaum ("On the Impact of the Computer on So­
ciety") the insights of science such as those pro­
vided earlier by the work of Galileo, Darwin, and 
Freud, and now provoked by the advent of the com­
puter, shake man's self-esteem because, when viewed 
superficially, they seem to diminish man. 
Mechanistic View of Man 
We diminish man and in our anxiety grow more dis­
dainful of ourselves and ambivalent towards comput­
ers if computer usage is predicated on a mechanistic 
view of man and this mechanistic view becomes our 
self-image. Too many statements made by systems 
analysts or computer scientists display that a com­
puter-usable view of man is being substituted for 
the whole man. Keep in mind the above list of human 
attributes contrasted to computers by science-fic­
tion writers as you read the following statement 
from the widely read and much discussed book Limits 
of Growth written by well-motivated systems analysts: 
Some considered the model too 'technocratic' 
observing that it did not include eritical so­
cial factors, such as the effects of adoption 
of different va1u·e systems. The chairman of 
the Moscow meeting summed up this point when 
he said, 'Man is no mere biocybernetic device'. 
This criticism is readily admitted. The pres­
ent model considers man only in his material 
system because valid social elements simply 
• 
• 
