14-00000 
I 
... ·. ~ ·-.;:-- r: .~ ... :::..:. ~";·~~ 
~· .,. ~ 
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP 
in the CAREER STAFF of the 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
To the Director of Central Intelligence 
Sir: 
I submit herewith my application for membership in the Career Stoff of the 
Central Intelligence Ag~~cy .as defined below: 
•"The Career Staff of the Central Intelligence Agency is a group of 
ca·refully selected and trained individuals who accept on obligation to 
devote themselves to the needs of the Agency, and who intend to make 
a career with the Agency." 
In accordance with this definition, I desire to devote myself to the faith­
ful performance of duty in the Central Intelligence Agency, and I accept the 
ob~igations and conditions of that service which are determined to be essen­
tial to the furtherance of its mission. 
I am aware of the many restrictions necessarily placed upon me by virtue 
of the security requirements inherent in rny employment by the Central Intelli­
gence Agency. I am also aware that as a member of the Career Staff, it will 
be my obligation to serve anywhere and at any time and for any kind of duty 
CJS determined by the needs of the Agency, and I have been assured that in 
order to carry out this policy, full consideration will be given to my particular 
capabilities, interests, and personal circumstances. By virtue of this applica­
tion for membership and upon my acceptance in the Career Staff, I am assured 
that, with continuing satisfactory work performance and conduct on my part, 
just and equitable attention will be accorded my personal progress during my 
tenure 1n the Career Stoff. I om also assured that, on my satisfactory com­
plotion of any assignments, I will be offered reassignments which ore compati­
ble insofar as possible with my abilities and career interests, and that I shall 
be entitled to the benefits now available or to be made available in the future 
to members of the Career Staff of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
MEMBERSHIP IN fHE CAREER STAFF OF 
THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
APPROVED, TO TAKE EFFEcr_LJUL 19~..!_ 
FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE, 
liudJ.((}' ){td_ 
znotvre) 
p_ar.,t~JfJ'f 
(Dote) 
S[CRET 
