(· 
12. 
( 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
~--CTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIG/,,S 87F 
agency having security responsibility, and intere~ted agencies 
can be included on FD-128 submitted by old office of origin. 
Office of origin, upon verification of address, im.~ediately sub-
mit FD-128 transferring origin. Submit original and one copy 
to Bureau and two copies to office covering new address enclosing 
copies of all previous reports, other pertinent serials, photo-
graph if available, and ADEX cards. Show full title and designation. 
Where flash notice has been placed with Identification Division, 
note on FD-128 and designate extra copy·of FD-128 for Bureau for 
attention of Identification Division. 
Old office of origin submit current report or ~HM. If Lt~l 
.submitted, cover communication should include same documentation 
as is r1;quired in administrative pages of reports. 
Do not delay submissi-0n of FD-128 solely for preparation of report 
or LHM, but note on FD-128 that appropriate communication is being 
prepared. Old office of origin should furnish Secret Servic~ 
locally' with subject's new residence and busi.ness addresses by 
FD-366. Copy of FD-366 should be provided to new office of 
origin for dissemination to Secret Service locally by latter office. 
Case will remain pending in both-old and new offices until report 
or LHM is submitted by old office. New office of origin is 
responsible to follow matter until completed. 
(6) New office of origin should review pertinent material received with 
FD-128 and information in its files to determine if additional 
investigation warranted. If not, advise Bureau by letter that case 
is being closed. 
(7} Upon receipt of FD-128, office covering new address is origi11 and 
should place office file number on ADEX cards and file them in its 
ADEX. 
(8) Upon receipt of ne'w cards from Bureau, new off ice is to transfer 
information from reverse side of old geographical card to new 
card, appropriately file new cards, and destroy old ones.· 
b. Subjects not included in ADEX 
(1) Transfer office of origin by FD-128 upon verification by another 
office of subject's presence in that division. Enclose copies of 
all reports and other pertinent serials to new office of ori_gin. 
(2) New office of origin should initiate appropriate investigation or 
advise Bureau case closed if no action warranted. • 
Cancellation and removal of cards from ADEX 
a. Death of a subject 
Destroy card and advise Bureau by·LHM. 
b. Permanent departure 
Upon learning of subject's departure from U. s. or Puerto Rico for 
foreign country, immediately ascertain conditions of departure. No 
card shall be canceled by reason of such departure unless subject is 
alien whose permanent departure has been verifiedo If u~ s. citizen 
who has been out of country has renounced u. s. citizenship and taken 
citizenship of foreign country, card may be canceled when it has been 
determined he does not intend to return to U. So ' 
c. Imprisonment of subject 
Do not cancel card because subject imprisoned, regardless of length 
of time he will be incarcerated. Place card in unavailable section 
and handle as set forth under imprisoned subjects above. • 
do Entry of subject into armed forces 
Upon learning of entry, submit to Bureau FD-122 to cancel ADEX and 
FD-366 to advise Secret Service of entry, disseminating copy of FD-366 
locally to Secret Serviceo Also submit report or LHM setting forth 
pertinent information not P.reviously report-ed and including facts 
39 
4-13-72 
NW 38321 Doclil;32989529 Page 1939 
i 
l 
I i 
l . i 
i l 
I 
~ i 
l 
' ' ! 1 
l 
l 
l 
I 
' 
l 
' 
i 
I i 
I 
i ! ! t 
1 ; 
I 
l l 
! 
i I 
I 
