[ 
[' 
( 
• 
PA.RT II t • 
S:F1CTION 6 •. ,. uBLICATIONS~ PRESS; .UTD PD'BLIC vlJWf.'ACTS 
2. Identification orders, wanted flyers, check circulars.,-and apprehension 
orders 
Each field office must :maintain a mailing list composea·of individuals 
and organizations to which identification orders,· wanted flyers, check 
circulars, and apprehension or4ers are to be sent. Each ·field off.ice must 
review annually its .mailing list in order to see ·that no data is sent to 
firms which have ceased business or have merged with other prganizations. .. 
a. Addressograph p~ates are to be prepared at the·Bureau upon receipt of 
field request. {The Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is· 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are. to appear on 
the list. 
(1) The quality of the assistance the addressee is in a position to 
gi-ve . 
. 
(2
3
) The cooperation which has been afforded 
( ) The following must appear on the. ·list: 
Alcohol and Tobaoco Tax Division Missions Providing Lodging 
Bureau of Customs Post Office Inspectors 
Coo.perative Credit Bureau? p·ostmasters • 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce-. Salvation Army 
ment Officers ·Secret Service·; 
FBINA Graduates U. s. Marshals 
.:Iotels 
Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service ..... 
( 4) The following may appear o.n the list:. 
Automobile Clubs 
Banks 
Movie Studios:,·· 
Navy Shore Patrol 
County Attorneys 
County Coroners 
Credit Companies 
Detective Agen~ies 
Enlistment Officers, 
Oil Company Special Agents 
Parole and.Pr~bation Officers 
. r• Plant Quarantine-Officers 
.Protective Associations v 
U.S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps 
Employment Service-,. 
Fire Departments 
Forest Service 
Gunsmiths 
Insurance _Companies-•; 
• Race Tracks , •• 
Savings.and Loan Associations 
Service Recruiting Officers 
~-state Hospitals for Insane 
Steamship Companies 
Teleg~aph-Companies 
u. s. Attorneys .• 
.u. s. Commissioners 
c .. Identificati'on orders,· wanted flyers, and· check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request . 
.. Should a compelling reason exist for.distribution o~.an·ldentification 
• order, ·a wanted flye;r, or a check circular·, such as-possible employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for 
such distribution. • 
d. Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels. 
[e, Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be-circularized on 
identification order fugitives ·who are veterans. Office of origin 
has responsibility for instructtng other.offices to initiate distribu­
tion to V..A. installations in such: cases.):· 
4 
10-27-59 
, 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
