87D 
(4) 
d. Key 
( 1) 
(2) 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 
class1fiod oontraoto with the key facility. Copies of ~0pnrts 
fer thu Harine Gorps should be disseminated locally to[HISO.] 
n•iscemination to the Jd;omic Energy Commiss:ion {AI:C}, Defense 
Atomic Support Agency {DASA} (fcrnerly Armed Forces Special 
Weapons Project), the Research ana Development Board (RDB), 
and the l'[;•::-·itime Aclministration (I·:A) will 1-,e made at tl:.e 
B".lr«au, and not in the field. 
St~tus. of cases 
.t.fter all :1.ctive: invcf, '.-:gation conducted, plact;) in a closed 
status. Forty-five day:; before report due, m:...ke ca.se penc1ing· 
active and chock w.ith a:rmsc. se·rviccs representative at the 
k~y facility, or with other reliabJ.e sc1n•ces, t .. deter,.:i.no 
whether subject has access to classified or restricted 
m?. ter ial . 
fi~~ure ~:..nd top functionary program 
Ce!lera.l 
Purpose of key figure and top functionary JJrogram ii-. to select 
·for special attention those individuals in a subversive 
movement who are of outstanding impor-tanco to the effectiveness 
of the mover,,-::nt. 
Key figure and top functiona:!'y program is described below as 
pertaining to the Communist ?arty, .USJ,. However, it also 
applies to important indiYiduals active in or on behalf o:f 
other basic revolutionary groups. 
• Key figures 
(a) Definition 
.A key figure is an ·:·'.i-.ridual, either a member or non-­
member of the Commu.~.: :.t Pa.rty or other basic revoh.t tionary 
organization, who, b7 reason of his official ?osition in 
the organization or his connections with the C!)mmi.mist 
.movement and his activities on its behalf, is consic.ered 
of sufficient imp~~ .. !:.ance and potential dangero-µ,sness 
from .an internal . <:mrity standpoint to require immediate 
apprehension or a~~Bntion in the event of an emergency. 
Individuals coming within the following categorie1:l shall 
be considered within the definition of a key figure: 
I. National, district, and state officers and the nr"incibal 
officers of the local clubs of the Communist Pa;.ty -
II. The principal organizers of the Communist Par·ty . 
. III. Those communists who are ·executive officers or out­
standing figures in established communist front or 
communist-controlled organiz2.tions, foreign language 
groups, and Negro organizations infiltrated by 
communists 
IV. Individuals extens-ively engaged in communist 
infiltration of the labor movement, including 
principal officers of labor organizations who 
are members of or cl9sely affiliated with the 
Communi.st Party. In 
528 66 
7-13-67 
( 
