,) « •• t 
SECRE'l.' 
SAMUEL ADASON JlH•FE 
Jaffe stated that "Slava 11 might have thought· 
that he (Jaffe) was ns1ava 1 sn agent. He continued: "Little 
things came out o:f :s1ava t, but I never kn(.::Vt exactly what he. 
did. I do know I would tell him what I would think, which is 
not a secret., u J"af£e, indicated he never told 11Slava n or any 
other Soviet connected with.Soviet Intelligence anything other . 
than his own observations and opinions and denied furnishing_- e: 
any information from any Government documents.. He al::;o , ~ 
emphatically denied that KGB had made any arrr.mgements for • 
meeting hini after he left Moscow or that the~ had been.any 
such meetings since he .left r,!oscow. He said nobody had fol-
lowed up ns1ava' s~r contacts with him~ 
~ 
. ~ 
I l 
I i ,------ ~ 
In response to a specific q~estion, 'Jaff~_stated , 
he did not think "Slava u had anything toi]!o .. with his expulsion ~ 
from Russia o . He continued: "My guess is John Scali, 1,11110 is t 
very close to CIA" was responsible for the oxpulsiono Jaffe 6 i 
continued: "John wanted tof)'::et~me up with CI1L . They _(CIA) • t 
would do things in indirect •w~ays. u Jaffe then rc~ated an in- ( 
ci.dC3nt in which Scali invited several ABC employees to a t 
party, including an individual introduced to Jaffe as an employee t 
of·the Department of Commerce, who expressed very much interest f 
in Jaf;ers assignment to Russiao Jaf:ee later verified that this f 
individual was connected with CIA and he feels it would have t 
been better if the individual had been completely open with him. l 
• f 
• Jaffe then stated: ur still believe CIA sent me 
.to Moscow on the (Francis Gary).Powers trial., Prior to the 
trial, he was approached by a CIA representative in California 
6 
.who indicated he was aware Jaffe would be sent to Moscow by , 
Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS)c Jaffe stated he (Jaffe) . 
was not aware of it at that tirae. Jaffe said he subsequently 
was told by another CIA representative whom he met while attending 
meetings of the Council on 1·'oreign Relations that he had been 
picked to go to Moscow with Barbara Powers and help Marvin Kalb, 
CBS correspo1id.e11t., cover the trial. On the eve of his departur0, 
a CIA representative who claimed he was a psychiatrist gave Jaffe 
background material-on spy trials and said "they .were very much 
interested in determining if Powers is brainwashed." Jaffe 
related that Barbara Powers developed a friendship with him 
and constantly sought his company and advice and expressed a 
strong dislike for CIA personnel aero mpanying them. Jaffe, at 
• the insistance of Mrso Powers 1 wrote a letter to the President 
of the Soviet Union appealing for clemency for Powerso Jaffe 
continued: 11There ·was nothing physical between us. We went 
dov:n town (in Moscov1) and went to the KGB building (at the 
request of Mrso PoweE, who insisted on seeing the building). 
This was the first-time she cried. Then we went back. The 
next morning was the trial. The next thing I know I am sitting 
dmvn in the VIP section. They wrote that I~ a member of the 
family. The game (with CIA) has been going on for ~- long time• 
11 
SECRE'f 65 , J!W _8a326 Docld:32989104 Page 336 
~\tl"" .,-c-i,-;•,-,.<:"~~~*,,,_..._ 
r. 
i 
ti 
l f 
r f 
i: 
