Project Management within CIA. 
From its outset the project was characterized by a compartmentation that 
\'tas extreme even by CIA standards. Only two or three Agency officers at any 
given time were cleared for access to Fort Detrick activities. This work was 
managed first within the Biology Branch and later in the Chemistry Branch of 
TSO. Because of the sensitivity of the activity, queries by operations officers 
as to the availability of materials and delivery systems of the type being 
developed at Fort Detrick were automatically turned away by TSO unless initial 
approval for contact had been given by the Deputy Director for Plans. Even 
when this 1~as the case, the Chief of TSO often referred the operations officer 
directly to one of the cleared officers dealing with Fort Detrick and was never 
informed as to the nature of the discussions.· This method of procedure has been 
I 
confirmed both through interviews and by the IG report on assassination planning. 
No written records were kept. Though some CIA-originated documents have been 
found in the project files, it is clear that only a very limited documentation 
of activities took place. No records on such things as material control, receipt, 
delivery, destruction, etc. can be found. No documents relating to any possible 
operationaruse of the material have been found. The files as they exist are quitE 
different from those normally maintained in the course of a typical CIA R&D 
project. As noted above, funding to the project was provided simply on the basis 
of augmenting the level of effort established by Army funding. There appears 
to have been no relation of funding to specific tasking, nor can any strict 
accounting of funds on the basis of effort expended in the Agency's behalf be 
\ 
found. Project officers with whom discussions were held stated thac the funding 
was simply provided to maintain the availability to the Agency of the capabilities 
6 
Hlf 5095.'i Doclcl: 32112749 Page 9 
PhotocoPY 
tram 
Gerald R Fon:I Library 
