14-00000 
Assassination Record Definition: Comments 
Background Section: 
2 March 1995 
[the statement "search and disclosure of records ... must go 
beyond the records of previous commissions . .. " is based on a 
similar statements on pages 19 & 21 of the Report to 
accompany S. 3000] 
Section 1400.1 - Interpretation of Assassination Record 
(a)"An assassination record includes, ... ,all 
records ... that may have led to the assassination ... " 
[S. 3006 states that the "Board should act on a reasonable 
basis in requesting additional records. Recommend we insert 
"reasonably" into statement after "have" (or change may to 
reasonably could}] 
~ 
(b) (2) "All records .. . or segregated by all 
Federal ... agencies in conjunction with any investigation ... " 
[means all "microfilm" documents are assassination records, 
and will have to be reviewed and accounted for even if we 
are successful in "postponing" most of these records] 
1400.2 Interpretation of additional records and 
information. 
(a) "All documents used by government offices and 
agencies during their declassification review of 
assassination records as well as all other documents, 
indices, records, and other material that disclose 
cryptonyms, code names, or other identification material in 
assassination records." 
[Section (a} is too inclusive; as written would include ANY 
document, book, index, record system or other material 
consulted or "used" during the review, .regardless of 
relevance to JFK assassination. In fact, most of the 
material "used" in the review was used to determine if 
information/names/ etc. had been previously released and had. 
nothing to do with the assassination or investigations. 
Also the part of the statement following "as well as" needs 
clarification. Are they asking for all records that contain 
information on individuals mentioned in assassination 
records or are they asking for the records/indices/etc. that 
were used to identify individuals mentioned by crypt or code 
name in assassination records. • 
[ the amendment recommended by FBI covers CIA concerns; 
ideally the word "used" should be changed to "created"] 
