Page 4 
Again as part of his "pure personal opinion" (Bissell, 6/9/75, p. 60) 
that this was done, Bissell speculated that Dulles 'W'Ould have engaged in a 
"circunlocutious" sort of conversation. (Bissell, 6/11/75, p. 6), using 
"rather general tenIJS • II 
Bissell repeatedly coupled Eisenhower and Kennedy together when he 
speculated about· the manner in which he felt the Presidents would have been 
advisedtomaintain"plausibledeniability." (Bissell, 6/9/75, pp. 38, 57; 1 
6/11/75, pp. 5-6): 
"In the case of an operation orhigh sens1t1v1ty 
of the sort that we are dtscussing, there was a 
further objective that would have been pursued at 
various levels, and that was specifically with 
respect to the President, to protect the President. 
And, therefore, the way in which I believe that 
Allen Dulles would have attempted to do that was to 
have indicated to the two successive Presidents the 
general objective of the operation that was contem­
plated, to make that sufficiently clear so that the 
President -- either President Eisenhower or President 
Kennedy -- could have ordered the tennination of the 
operation, but to give th~ President just as little 
information about it as possible beyond an under­
standing of its general purpose. Such an approach 
to the President would have had as its purpose to 
leave him in the position 1 to deny knowledge of the 
operation if it should sufface. 
11
My belief - - a belief based, as I have said, only to 
me knowledge of comnand relationship of Allen Dulles 
as an individual, and of his mode of operations -- is 
that authorization was obtained by him in the mariner 
that I have indicated. I.used the word on Monday 
"circumlocutious," and it was to this approach that I referred. • • • 
1• Assuming for the moment that I am correct, since the 
effort would have been to minimize the possibility of 
embarrassment to the President, it is•, I think, under­
standable that neither I nor anyone else in the Agency • 
would have discussed this operation on our own initiative "" 
with, for instance, members of the White House staff. 
