. ( 
I • 
•• ,t 
••• 
• \ 
, I 
. :-· 1/ 
Racial Unrest on Coll~ge Campuses 
'Campuses throughout·the United States have been 
marked by racial unrest as exemplified by the current disrup­
tions at San Francisco State College, San Francisco, ·California-; 
and the University of Califo~nia, Berkeley, California. Such 
groups ·as the Third World_Liberation Front, a coalition,of 
minority groups, and the Black Student Union are becoming 
increasingly militant and. violence prone in presenting their 
demands to college authorities. Demands made by such groups 
include the establishment e>f a separate college for minority· 
groups, particularly Negroes;· the establishment of black 
courses; the hiring of minority group professors and adminis­
trators; and the control of hiring and firing of faculty mem­
bers by students. At San Francisco State College over 400 
individuals have been arrested during a current wave of dis­
ruption and attempts are being made to force the College to 
close. Students for a Democratic Society and other militant 
groups have joined in ·these demonstrations and offer full 
support to minority groups. 
Black Panther Party 
The Black Panther Party is _the most active, 
notorious, violence-prone black extremist organization. In 
the past nine months it has established branches in 25 cities 
across the country with_a hard-core membership of at least·l,200. 
• The latest development is the order from national 
headquarters to stop recruiting for a time in order to weed 
out informants and undesirables and concentrate on political" 
indoctrination based on the writings of MAO Tse-tung of Com­
munist China. There is also.increasing discussion of the 
necessity for going underground. 
The Black Panther Party Minister of Education 
George Mason Murray, a suspended instructor at San.Francisco 
State College, holds a position on the Ceniral Committee of 
the Black Student Union at that- College. The Black Student 
Union instigated the campus unrest which has plagued this 
institution during the current school year. 
Soviet an.d Satellite Espionage 
The United States is the number one espionage 
target of the Soviet Union and its European satellites 
(Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania)-. 
The intelligence.operations of these satellites are coordinated 
