' -~ • 
[107W SECTION 107. [IN1.L]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CON.ENTIAL SOURCES; 
[ [AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSET~] 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
(5) Submit FD-165 for search of FBIHQ identification records; 
make no reference to individual as OA on FD-165; and also 
utilize FD-165 to place stopo 
(6) If applicable, check armed services records, both at Military 
Personnel Records Center, St. Louis, Missouri, and at Defense 
Central Index of Investigations, Ft. Holabird, Maryland. 
(7) Canvass logical sources, commensurate with OA's security. 
(8) Upon completion of above investigation submit results to"FBIHQ 
via coded teletype, preferably "Nitel," and interview UACB. 
c. All leads to auxiliary offices must be sent and replied to, via 
coded teletype, preferably "Nitel, 11 under caption utilizing asset's 
true name, followed by 11IS-(country). 11 Do not set• out asset's 
symbol numbero Do not send copies of such leads of IAs to FBIHQ. 
Leads must be covered within 45 days; office of origin notify 
auxiliary offices of this time limit when setting out leads. 
13. Authority to operate assets 
IAs are approved and operated on SAC authority. Inform FBIHQ via 
coded "Nitel" when SAC approval given, and type of information IA 
can provide. OAs are approved and operated on FBIHQ authority. 
After interview of OA submit results of interview via coded "Nitel" 
requesting FBIHQ approval to operate. Detail OA's potential and your 
contemplated use of OA. 
In exceptional cases, when the results of the interview and details 
of the OA1 s potential and contemplated use are voluminous, the practi­
cality of 11Nitel" and the relative security of the mails should be 
balanced against the sensitivity of the information and the security 
of the asseto Where the former factors prevail, submit summary by 
11Nitel 11 and full results and details by letter or airtel. 
14. Contact with assets • 
Contact should be maintained commensurate with maximum productivity, 
security, and development of asset's further potential. If an asset 
has not been contacted for a period of 45 days, a memorandum.to the 
SAC must be directed to the asset's main file stating the reason(s) 
why no contact was made. 
Do not disclose to asset any information not essential to his operation. 
15. Confidentiality of relationship 
Emphasize to all assets that the effectiveness of the FBI's investi­
gation, and in some instances his own personal security, depend on 
both sides maintaining the confidentiality of the relationshipo If the 
asset feels he must disclose this relationship to another, eog., wife, 
parent, employer, etc., or circumstances develop in which asset requests 
FBI to disclose the relationship to another, e.g., to an employer 
threatening dismissal of asset because of his affiliation with certain 
individuals or groups, notify FBIHQ with recommendation to disclose 
relationship and continue under these conditions or to terminate 
relationship with or without disclosing relationship, and reasons 
for recommendationo 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1202 
30 
10-15-74 
) 
