[ 
f 
NW 
A. 
SEC2.'JON 107. )cmUTY INF'ORHAHTS 
• 
Al,D CONFIDE.:.0AL 
• -
SOURCES 107A - B 
DEF'INI'.rivNS 
1. Security informant 
Individual actively enga~ed in obtaining and furnishing current infor­
mation on security matters exclusively for Buroau and whose identity 
must be protf:ctec1. Such person should 1:,e a member or atte~c1 meetings 
of a sur,versi vc organi-✓:ation, such as ·the Communist Party; or be in 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or oipionage 
activities or intelligence activities in the Ui S. on behalf of foreign 
principal that he is able to obtain and does provi_de current infor-· 
mation of value. 
2. Potential security informant 
Individual in a position to become active in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the U. S. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be 
in a position actively to obtai:-:. and furnish current information to 
Bureau. 
3. Double agent 
A specialized type of security informant; a person who i:J cooperating 
with, receiving assignments from, and performing ta.sks for both a foreign 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance. 
4. Confidential source 
An individual who on a confidential basis furnishes i 1-~ormation availa::ile 
to him through his present position. Examples would • ~: bankers and 
telephone company employees. 2.'hese individuals make .. concerted effort 
en behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain ?.Jl:1 furnisL • nformation readily· 
available to them. 
B. SOURCES OF POTENTIAL SECURITY I11FOR11AUTS 
Informants shouJ.d be clevelopcd on all organizations and indj vidua.ls that 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown tha~ pote~~ial 
informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal i esti-
gative activity. Live infor~ant coverage depends for the most part up0n • 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs, For assistance 
in obtaining pot~ntial informants, the following is suggested: • 
1. Evaluation of 
a. C·omplainants in security matters 
b. Persons interviewed in connection with security cases 
c. Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation ~f party loyalty 
d. Bureau applicants as possible inform~nts 
e, Personal friends and contacts of Special·Agents and other Bureau 
employees 
f. Sources of information, confidential sources, and contacts on con-
tinuous basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals 
3. Review of reserve index 
4. Ascertain possibilities of reactivating former confidential informants. 
5. Deleted 
6. Review factionalism section of file on Communiit Party, USA. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffection 
on the part of Communist· Pi:-.rty members. They, of course, should not be 
informed as to the purpose of the inquiry. 
a. Review of files on comnunist front organizations looking for individuals 
who have been associated with only one or two fronts· or who attended only 
a few meetings of a front. Such individuals frequently are •~~~ceni at 
communist propensities, yet they have a basis -1:H· culti-r::i;i:1=; the 
acquaintance of party members. 
Docld:32989529 1370 
3 
'1--13-65 
