) 
most notably at- Brandeis University where two professors from San 
Francisco State College allegedly contributed to the seizing of the 
Administration Building on January 8, 1969, and American University, 
Washington, D. C. , where members of the Students for a Democratic 
Society allegedly traveled to Washington, D. C., · and participated in 
seizing a building on the campus on April 23, 1969. 
INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION 
OF.STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLE 
INVESTIGATIONS (DYER ACT) 
In the fall of 1967, the former Attorney General and his 
staff held confer.ences with various United States Attorneys (USA) 
here in Washington, D. C. Following these conferences, we learned 
of a divergence of opinion·among USAs c.oncerning the Department's 
views in prosecuting Interstate Transportation of Stolen Motor Vehicle 
(ITSMV) cases. Some had the opinion that only automobile theft ring 
cases should be prosecuted in Federal court while others were of the 
opinion that only cases having commercial aspects should be considered 
ior such prosecution. Other USAs felt only cases possessing aggravated 
circumstances should be considered. Some continue to consider each 
case on its individual merits. During the period October, 1967, 
through May, 1968, we wrote four letters to the former Attorney 
General requesting the Department's views concerning the prosecution 
of these cases. In a letter dated April 12, 1968, to the Department, 
we set forth our views that prosecution of Dyer Act cases in Federal 
court should not be restricted to commercial matters and to adults, 
but rather that each case should be considered on its individual merits. 
None of these letters were answered. On March 5, 1969, we wrote the 
present Attorney General informing him of the divergence of opinion among 
USAs. This letter also requested the Attorney General furnish us his 
view's concerning this matter; however, an ans\Yer has not been received 
to date. • 
-.. 
-5-
.. 
NW 3 ~~~-u:321~'.'.li~'.)4 
. Page 574 
