13-00000 
There is no question.that Congress has the right and, I would say, the obligation 
to legislate in this area, particularly since the executive branch has failed to manage ' · 
the secrecy system in a way that best serves the national interest. As Harold Relyea· of 
the Congressional·Research Service has pointed out:· 
Pursuant to its constitutional authority ·To make Rules for the Government and 
Regulation of the land and naval .forces• (Article I, Section 8, clause 14), as well 
as the •necessary and proper° clause (Article I, Section 8, clause 18), Congress· 
has long established rules, regulations, and procedures of general effect for the 
government and the armed services.... These clauses would appear to empower 
Congress with authority to legislate polfoy and procedare comparable-to that 
prescribed by presidential executive order to effect security classification. 5 • 
The right of Congress to enact secrecy-related legislation has also been clearly 
recognized by the Supreme Court. Priorto the 1974 amendments to the Freeqom of 
Information Act, the Court held in EPA v. Mink, 410 U.S. 73 (1973) that Congress had 
not· intended for the courts to examine the propriety of classification decisions or 
procedures. But, as Kate· Martin of the_ Center for National Security Studies has noted, 
the Court also four;1d that:· 
Congress could certainly have provided that the Executive Branch adopt new 
procedures _or it could have established its own procedures- subject only to 
whatever limitations the Executive privilege may be held to impose upon such 
congressional· ordering. 6 
And of course Congress has enacted legislation dictating classification policy on 
numerous occasions, including the statutory classification framework of the Atomic 
Energy Act and the National Security Act, in which Congress (not the President) 
assigned the Director of Central Intelligence the responsibility for protecting • 
intelligence sources and .methods from unauthorized disclosure. - . 
Furthermore, Congress has also successfully enacted statutes requiring 
5Statement by Harold C. Relyea, Congressional Research Service, before the 
House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence hearing on "A Statutory Basis for 
Classifying Information,• March 16, 1994, page 48ff. 
641 O U.S. at 83 (1973). See Testimony of Kate Martin, Director, Center for 
National Security Studies, before the House Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence hearing on "A Statutory Basis for Classifying Information,· March 16, 1994, 
page 66ff, for further elaboration of related Court rulings, and her conclusion that "the 
only possible constitutional limitation would be that the Congress could not order 
disclosure of advice given to the President that would constitute a state secret.• 
4 
