SECRET /SENSITIVE - 7 -
3. Pairfax County Police Department: Apparently undercover CIA agents in the 
county (unc.ier DOD cover) \·;ere being continuously harassed and challenged 
1.n the county while on operations. They feared their cover might be 
blow1 and fol t it would be good to have police cover to prevent this 
from occurring. Nr. Brewer l1imself may have suggested getting badges and 
identification from the county police. In any event, he thought it was a 
good idea and Headquarters approved it (per John Hutchinson, Assistant 
Special Agent ir, Charge of the Washington Field Office). Thereaf1,:c , , 
(la art of 1971 Brewer went t 
~ ~~....:.c..:. :=iut obtaining 
some badges an ·was originally 
reluctant to give badges and ID, early spring of 1972 he 
h oed his mind. and relented. Bre\-:er does net know if Osborn called 
J or i.f there was any arm-t\'Jist,iiig by the CIA. Bre,ver himself 
no arm-twisting. Nine patrolman's badges and one sergeant's badge 
were obtained, plus ten blank ID cards. The true names of CIA agents 
were placed on the cards by Brewer. twas understood that if the badges 
and ID's were ever used that ~,.;woulc. immediately be notified. 
In fact, they were kept in a sa e at fashingtc-n Field Office Headquarters 
and never used. They have recently been returned to Fairfax County. 
No police cover was ever obtained by Washington Field Office, or used by them 
for the purpose of performing police activity. Brc.•.1er stated that local police 
were always kept informed of CIA activities in thc:i_r jurisdiction. 
Other Assistance Re]l(lcrcd CIA bv Lcc2.l Pol ice - ~ - -~%--
Project SIESTA: 
This project involved the break-in into a photogra1,hic shop in Fairfax City. 
Tinee Fairfax City pe;lice assisted in the operatior,. One entered the apart­
ment with several CIA agents; one stood watch on the front steps; and one 
wai tcd in a squad car outside the bui)ding. rluch material in the photographic 
studio ,1·as photographed. Surveillance \ms constantly maintained on the ope:ca­
tors' of the studio whil 0 the break-in was being carried out. 
Use of Fairfax County Facilities: 
On a.'t least one occasion the Fairfax County police station ,~as uscJ for CIA 
training purposes. CIA desired to assure themselves that new recruits for 
covert overseas duty could not be 11brokcn" if siezed by foreign authorities. 
Consequently, CIA officials ,,ould 11arrest" these unwitting rccrui ts on some 
bogus ·charge and take them to Fairfax County jail 11•here they ,-:ould be subj cct 
to strong interrogad on to sec if they 1,·ould "brcak 11 • 
SECRET/SENSITIVE 
.. 
NW 50955 Docid:32203834 Page 12 
I 
