r 
charged by information with the interstate transportaion of Taylor's automobil~. 
I 
Spears waived indictment and entered a plea of guilty o . His bond was continued 
at $35,000, and February 15, 1960, was set as the date for sentencing. 
l 
Physical evidence from the crash :is extremely sparse. Since the 
examination of the 'limited physical material found did not indicate an 
explosion or the reason for the crash, it was hoped that the plane could 
be located in the Gulf. If the plane could be found and examined, it might 
reveal some definite physical evidence of the cause of the crash, particularly 
if a bomb was involved. On January 28, 1960, salvage operations were begu1t,. 
by t}:le N9-vy in the Gulf of Mexico after sonar contact had located an object 
l 
which was thought to be the plane. On February 5, 1960, however, the Navy 
discontinued salvage operations without locating the downed· aircrafto 
Following an interview ,vith an abortionist in Dallas, Texas, who 
formerly associated with Dr. Spears, the Miarnl Office advanced the theory 
that Spears might have been in Tampa on November 13 to 15, 1959, for 
the purpose of preparing an ~bortion formula through a process which involves 
the cooking of dynamite to obtain nitroglycerin, and that Spears might have 
prevailed on Taylor to transport the formula to Dallas by plane in Spears' 
• place. The explosion, if there was one, might have resulted from an 
accidental explosion of the abortion formula. The Laboratory has considered 
this theory and has advised that it knows of no instance ·of the use of 
) nitroglycerin in preparations utilized to produce abortions. In addition, 
during a reinterview with the Dallas abortionist, he advised that all of 
the ingredients used by Spears in his abortion formula were stable and not 
volatile or explosiveo 
l 
All persons contacted in this investigation have denied any knowledge 
of the wilful destruction of the plane. Nevertheless our investigation is being 
pressed to determine full facts and to uncover any violations of Federal laws 
which might have occurred. The United States Attorney at Phoenix has been 
l 
kept fully advised and has under consideration the question of whether a 
• prosecutable Federal case for mail fraud exists against Dr. Spears, his wife 
and/or Dr. Turskao -
-
l 
As of February 8, 1960, twenty-five investigative reports in this case 
have been made available to the Department and to the Civil Aeronautics Board. 
