., " 
LS 185-6 
0 
" 
''..l, 
-~· ' \ 
--
<I 
or wall and, once escaping the facilities in this 
manner, nn automobile could be stopped, a pistol 
stuck in the face of the occupant and the occupant 
forced tq drive Bno;-m and other members of the group 
.. to any desti;.nation in Hew Yor-k. :' 
. . 
• JAY STAFFORD advised thut BilOVIN, npp:i.rently 
in an nttempt to imprcsa he and his brother, related 
to the fact thnt if they ~ere interested in involving 
themselves in tlli3 type of schcne and could 'pGrforr:i" 
well, that they would acquire a number of influential 
friends and night even be able to see Governor GEORGE 
WALLACE, BilOi'/H related to tlle :fact that the STiiFFORD 
brothers would have no expenses if they involved them­
selves on the trip to New York City inn.s;n.uch· as he, 
(DROWN) hnd u number of.friends a:r;i.d nssociates who 
they copld lodge with to und from New York. JAY STAFFORD 
advisect·· that Bf~Q1'T.N repeatedly refer1,ed to the term 
"perforr.mnce" an~d STAI~FOru;:> interpreted the word 
"performance" to ncan or identicnl with pulling off 
some type of job, BilOi'iN related that he had not 'performed" 
in several years and needed to 'perform" at th is time 
in order to regain influence or re-establish himself 
with prior nss~ciates. 
BROWN further briefly discussed religious 
philosophies with Jt~Y ST/\1~.FOP..D and his brother, relating 
..,.,--."--- the fact that the Bible had been m~intcrprcted. BROWN 
stated that the Bible referred toor:~"thorizes man to 
have at least seven wives and also related to the fact 
that the destructiOl'l of statues in the United :Nations 
building y1ould be nccomplishcd :for rel:!.gious us well 
as political reasons. 
BROWN then asked of JAY STAFFORD and his 
brother, if they were- aware of anyone in Kentucky who 
could furnish hio dynnr.ii te. JAY ST.lU'FOilD advised that 
he might hn.vc given DnOWH information concern:!.nr, a 
younger brother of a person know~ to JAY STAFFORD as 
GLENN LYNU DEOi1TING, of Lexing'ton, Kcntucl;:y. JAY STAFFORD 
,.. 
. ,. 
!,NW 3829fi Docld:329895~4 Page 86 : 
-
• • I 
I I ! 
l 
t 
I 
f 
I 
r 
