[ 
( 
( 
-PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
PART II [ 61-I] 
c, Purchase of individual publications at Bureau request 
When the Bureau requests a field office to purchase and forward one 
or more copies of publications of security interest, it is desired, 
unless otherwise specific~lly stated, that nonevidentiary cop~es be 
forwarded. With respect to these specific Bureau requests for the 
purchase of ind·ividual copies of publications, the requested non­
evidentiary copies should be forwarded to the Bureau by routing slip 
via ordinary mail. 
d. Obtaining and retaining evidentiary copies of publications in the 
field 
When the submitting office determines, or is advised by the Bureau, 
that a certain issue of a publication {which has already been for­
warded to the Bureau} is deemed to be of sufficient importance to 
warrant the obtaining of an evidentiary copy of tha.t issue, a copy 
thereof should be obtained through live informants or by having an 
Agent purchase a copy at a public outlet for that publication, if 
confidentially feasible·. The evidentiary copy, bearing compl.ete 
id~ntifying data, should be retained as evidence in the field office, 
and the Bureau should be· so advised by letter, setting forth 
complete identifying data concerning the evidentiary copy, together 
with the caption and file number of the file in which the evidentiary 
copy is retained. 
e. Transmittal of evidentiary copies of publications to the Bureau 
• Instances in which the field will transmit evidentiary copies of _publica­
tions to the Bureau will be limited almost exclusively to the submission 
of copies of ·f·oreigh language publ'ications· "for trans·1a:tion of certain 
materiil for uje as evidence. In these instandes, it ~s required that: 
(1! Each copy submitted bear complete identifying data 
(2 The material be· forwarded ·1n sealed envelope·s· la'J?eled •11Evidencett 
( 3 •• T_he m~terial b.e fory;ar9-~(I. vi?, :):'egi stered mail . • _ ., 
"( 4) - .The cover letter o:t' transmittal be marked for the att.ention of 
.the FBI Laboratory; s_~ate clearly that it is contemplated that the 
publications (an~-translations.thereof). will be used as evidence; 
identify clearly the enclosed publications as to title, place of 
publication, and date of issue; show the method of ~ransmittal 
of the evidence to the Bureau; and indicate the desired disposition 
of the evidence. 
:r. C'alling attention of Bureau to publications of security interest 
When a field office obtains an evidentiary copy of a public·a.tion which 
it desires to call to the Bureau's attention, a letter should be 
addressed to the Bureau to that end. Title, author, publisher, and the 
general nat~re should be very briefly set forth, together with the identi­
fying data proper to the evidentiary copj. The l~tter should be 
informative, not requiring an answer .. A nonevidentiary duplicate copy 
of that publication should be enclosed with the letter, if readily 
available. If a nonevidentiary copy is not readily available, that 
fact should be stated in the letter. If the Bureau desires to 
obtain a nonevidentiary duplicate copy of the publication for review, 
efforts will be made to obtain it through the appropriate field affice. 
If not obtained, the office possessing the evidentiary copy will be 
requested to forward to the Bureau a Photostat thereof. 
Sb 
12-27-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1108 
