.. 
6. 
C. 
[ 
8. 
.TION 87. .SECURITY INVESTIGAT. S7G 
Character 
a.. The designation nsecuri ty Mattern (SM where appropriate)' is· to be set 
out in all instances. Use organizational affiliation where organiza­
tion with which subject is affiliated is under current or continuing 
investigation or where a Bureau-approved thumbnail sketch exists. 
Examples: Security Matter C (Communist) 
Security Matter - SWP (Socialist Workers Party) 
Security Matter - SMC (Student Mobilization Committee) 
b. Every effort is to be made to use a meaningful organizational affilia­
tion or nationalistic tendency designation; how~ver, where this-cannot 
be done, following designations should be used: . . 
(1) Security Matter - Subversive (Where activity of subje9t corisists 
primarily of efforts to disrupt or destroy Government operations 
through violent protest and is in line with espousal or support of 
philosophy which advocates overthrow of Government by an:y means 
possible, including force and violence, and/or a demonstrated 
propensity for violence to achieve the same objective or to deny· 
otheFs their rights under the Constitution.) 
(2) Security Matter -[Revolutionary Activities](Where activity of 
subject is primarily extremist, student and/or communal-existence 
oriented and relates to violent efforts to disrupt or destroy 
Government-operations in line with espousal or support of a 
philosophy which advocates overthrow of the Government by any 
means possible, including force and violence, and/or a demon­
strated propensity for violence to achieve the same objective 
or to deny others their rights under the Constitutiono) 
Status 
Carry cases as pending until all active investigatipn has been conducted. 
Thereafter, status shall be as follows: 
a. Category I: Cases should remain in pending status and report or LI-IM 
$Ubmitted six months from date of last report or LHM. 
b. Category II: Cases should be reopened 45 days prior td six months 
from date of last verification to meet annual reporting and six­
month verifications requirements. 
-c. Category III: Cases should be reopened 45 days prior to one year 
from date of last annual verifications to meet annual reporting and 
verifications requirements. 
d. Category IV: Cases in which there have been reports, or LHMs in 11eu 
of reports, or verifications within last year should be reopened 45 
days prior to one year from that date to meet annual verifications 
requirements and 45 days prior to two years from that date to meet 
biennial reporting requirements. 
e. Subjects recommended for ADEX 
(1) Pending inactive 
If all Rctive investigation completed at time FD-122 forwarded 
to Bureau, set forth lead to follow for ADEX approvalo 
(2) Closed 
After ADEX approved, follow by administrative tickler for periodic 
report. 
f. Subject not being recommended for ADEX 
Closed - prior to closing, comply with instructions pertaining to 
interviews. 
Content 
a. Include following and handle under topical headings (bo.th in reports 
and LHMs) where appropriate . • 
(1) Background 
(a) Birth data 
(b) Citizenship status 
43 
6-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1900 
. 
1 • ' ; 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
f. 
l 
