13-00000 
---------·-·--······----•······ ••• 
.. 
.. 
Long-lost films taken in Dallas on November 22, 1963, that the public had never 
seen and that shed new light on the events of that day; and 
Private collections of records from individuals including Warren Commission 
attorney Wesley Liebler, author David Lifton, FBI Special Agent Hosty, Attorney 
Frank Ragano, as well as others. 
I am also pleased to announce today that the Review Board has just acquired the 
original personal papers of Clay Shaw, the late New Orleans businessman who is the 
only person ever tried in connection with the assassination of President Kennedy. Shaw 
was acquitted by a jury in 1969 after being charged as part of District Attorney 
Garrison's investigation. The Shaw papers will surely add another dimension to this 
particular chapter of the assassination story. 
All of these records will enrich the historical record of the assassination for future 
generations of Americans.,:Once these records are-processed and described bythek:~,:, :-;-,''. ,_,·:_:.: ·;: 
National Archives, they will'beav~ble::.futireseatth.< . -• ,· • •• • •• - <\; -:1 , 
VI. The Need For Additional Time 
Despite our best efforts and significant accomplishments, some of which I have 
outlined, the Review Board will not be able to complete its work within the original 
three-year timetable set by Congress for the following reasons: 
.. 
.. 
First, the authors of the original legislation believed that our task would take 
three years. That estimate was based on the best available information at the --
time, but the legislation established an unprecedented process. There was no 
way of knowing the problems of scale and complexity that the Board would 
encounter, nor was there any way to factor in the comprehensive approach we 
have taken in fulfilling our inandate. 
Second, the Board was not.appointed until 18 months after the legislation was 
signed into law. As a result, without the guidance of the Board, Federal agencies 
initially defined for themselves the universe of records that should be processed 
under The Act and to speculate about the kind of evidence that would be needed 
to sustain the redaction of assassination-related information. Once the Board 
was in place, agencies needed to redo a considerable amount of work. In fact, 
many agencies have yet to complete their review and the Board is still seeking 
their compliance. 
Third, our enabling legislation imposed several restrictions on the manner .in 
which the Board could operate. Unlike other temporary agencies, the Board 
6 
• .. 
