II 
NK 157-2011 
was determined that ROBERTSON's office maintains for distribution 
1/1000 scale maps of the entire District of Columbia sewer system 
and 1/1000 scale maps of the entire.District of Columbia water 
system. These maps are for persual and available free of charge 
to persons having a valid reason but are not given away indiscriminatly 
because of the cost. These maps have no dimensions and show no 
detail except in a very general way. There is no record maintained 
_of the distribution. ROBERTSON advised the system is coded to the 
map described above relating to detail map with scales of 1 inch 
to 100 feet and 1 inch to 50 feet, showing the exact locations of 
the water mai~s, the connections and val~es. The maps are available 
primarily to architects preparing buil.ding plans. He stated to 
obtain copies of the detailed maps, the District of Columbia 
Government requir3s a release to limit the liability of the district 
in the event of a law suit. 
On July 30, 1974, Hr. HASKELL L. COUNTS, Chief, 
Construction and Engineering Division, Department of Environmental 
Services (DES), Government of the District of Columbia, Washington, 
D.C., was interviewed. Mr. COUNTS stated that DES maintains for 
its own use and the use of a lL~ited numb9r of others having a 
need for them, 1 inch to 1000 feet scale maps of the overall water 
and sewer system of the-District of Columbia. He said that blueprints 
scaled 1 inch to 50 feet or 1 inch to 100 feet can be obtained from 
DES for specific locations throughout the district. The blueprints 
show exact locations of sewers, water mains, valves, connections, 
etc., and generally are available to contractors and others having, 
a need for them. COUNTS advised that SCHUYLER DAVENPORT FERRIS, 
who is employed by the Construction and Engineering Division, DES, 
as a member of a survey party concerned with the city water and 
~ sewer system, would have access to both maps of the overall water 
and sewer systems and detailed blueprints for specific locations in 
the District of Columbia. 
On September 3, 197 4, Mr. AYe_l3r.tpa ~P4r.~c:fJ;W_ was interviewed 
at his employment, Quaker City Paper,;, 30""0 11orth Sherman Street, 
Yo~k, Pennsylvania, by Special Agents of the FBI. LENTZ stated that 
DRAGER stayed with him at his residence 330 North Street, York, 
Pennsylvania, during the first week of June. He stated that DRAGER 
had several guns in his possession at that time. LENTZ advised that 
there were other Klan type individuals from Indianapolis in attendance 
while DRAGER was there, and they and DRAGER held secret discussions 
towhich LENTZ was not privy. LENTZ advised that he never heard 
DRAGER talk about bombing but knows that Dlli~GER was talking big 
about going underground. LENTZ advised that no one in his group 
favors "weatherman tactics
11 
and that if he had learned of a bombing 
plot, he would have contacted Captain MC CAFFERY, of the York, 
Pennsylvania, Police Depa~tment, before he would have allowed 
NW 38196 Docld:32989574 Pa!)e £25 
r 
f 
I 
