Instruction and Background 
A. September 15 White House Meeting 
On September 15, 1970, President Nixon met with his Assistant for 
National Security Affairs, Henry Kissinger, CIA Director Richard Helms, 
and Attorney General John Mitchell at the White House. The topic was 
Chile. Handwritten notes taken by Director Helms at that meeting re­
flect both its tenor and the President's instructions: 
l in 10 chance perhaps, but save Chile! 
worth spending 
not concerned risks involved 
no involvemen't of Embassy 
$10,000,000 available, more if necessary 
full-time job--best men we have 
game plan -
make the economy scream 
48 hours for plan of action 
In his testimony before the Select Committee, Director Helms recalled 
coming away from the meeting on September 15 with: 
* 
... (the)impression ... that the President came down 
very hard that he wanted something done, and he 
didn't much care how and that he was prepared to 
make money available .... This was a pretty all­
inclusive order .... If I ever carried a marshall's 
baton in my knapsack out of the Oval Office, it 
was that day. * (Helms testimony, July 15, pp. 6, 10, 11) 
Director Helms also testified that the September 15th meeting wi_th 
President Nixon may have been triggered by the presence of Augustin 
Edwards, the publisher of the Santiago daily El Mercurio, in Washing­
ton. That morning, at the request of Donald Kendall, President of 
Pepsi Cola, Henry Kissinger and John Mitchell had met for breakfast 
with Kendall and Edwards. (Mitchell calendar) The topic of conversa­
tion was the poli deal situation in Chile and the plight of El Mercurio 
and other anti~Allende forces. - According to Mr. Helms: 
I recall that prior to this meeting (with the President) 
the editor of El Mercurio had come to Washington and ,, --·• 
I had been asked to go and talk-to.--him at one of the 
hotels here, this having been arranged through Don 
Kendall, the head of the Pepsi Cola Company .... I have 
this impres~ibn that the President called this meeting 
where I have my handwritten notes because of Edwards' 
presence in Washington and what he heard-from Kendall 
about what Edwards was saying about conditions in 
Chile and what was happening there. 
(Helms testimony, July 15, pp. 4-5) 
, i 
-
-
-
