( 
( 
• • 
[ 
• 
PART II 
• 
6D - E 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
h. To include as many pertinent photographs as possible to make the 
write-up interesting. The photographs should not necessarily be of 
subjects alone but should be of paraphernalia used by the criminal, 
photographs of unusual loot obtained, scenes of various locales, etc. 
•• If photographs submitted do not belong to the FBI, it is necessary 
to inform the Bureau of their source and whether the owner of the 
photographs has any objection to their being reprod,uc~d in publi­
cations. 
i. Each portion of the wri'f;e-up should be documented as to the identity 
of the report or other communication from which facts were taken. The 
documentation should be set off by parentheses and follow immediately 
the portion of the write-up to which it pertains. 
4. Do not: 
a. Identify law enforcement officers by name but by title and NA affilia-
tion 
b. Show aliases 9f subjects of Dependents Assistance Act of 1950 
c. Show aliases of victims of WSTA cases 
d. Use complicated sentence structure 
e. Use techn:i.cal references to statutes 
f. Express personal opinions 
g. Reveal identity of confidential informants 
h. Use Bureau expressions like "the subject" and "the Bureau 11 
i. Prepare interesting case write-ups on juveniles, sex offenders, and • 
parole violators but submit these by letter 
j. Use adjectives excessively 
5. Transmittal 
Set forth all data necessary for Bureau's consideration at the beginning 
of write-up and th-en follow with interesting case data. Transmit by 
routing slip, attention[Files and Communications]Divisiono 
6. Dissemination , 
New ones issued by the Bureau should be carefully reviewed for possible, 
interes·t to feature writers in field office terri i;ory and consideration 
given to supplying them to appropriate writers. If there is an appreci­
able passage of time after issuance, obtain Bureau approval before re­
lease. Pertinent photographs, if available, will be, furnished by the 
Bureau on request. _ 
E. CIRCULAR LETTERS, TRADE .lil~D BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS 
1. Circular letters must be approved in advance .by the Bureau and sent in 
by the office initiating the request.- _ . 
2. SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-
type institutions within their. own divisions to expedite circularization 
of known serial numbers of money included in the loot ·taken in a bank 
robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny. On a highly selective basis, 
on approval of the SAC, leads may be set out to contiguous offices to 
circularize banking-type institutions in those divisions, and the Bureau 
should be .notified that this action is being taken unle s·s advised to 
the contrary. Communications setting out such leads must include suf­
ficient facts to enable the Bureau to properly evaluate and justify the 
additional circularization. In all other cases prior Bureau approval 
must be obtained in accordance with existing rules governing circular 
letters. In all instances the circular letter must include the following: 
a. A brief concise statement. concerning the bank robbery, bank burglary., 
or bank larceny and the fact that included in the loot or money 
taken was money, the serial numbers of which are known 
b. List of known serial numbers according to denomination, series year 
if known, alphabetical order, and numerical sequence 
c. A statement that the matter is to be treated confidentially 
d. A cautionary statement that no bank employee should take any action 
which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety 
e. The address and the telephone number of the field office with a 
statement that any person should contact the field office by calling 
collect 
3 
8-27-73 
L NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page ll.2 
