•. r•-... 
: . . . .... / . . February 5, 1960 
DAMAGE TO NUCLEAR SUBMARINE ''NAUTILUS, 11 NUCLEAR 
CRUISER "LOllG BEACH" AND GUIDED llISS;ILE FRIGATE "LUCE" 
SJ.BOT AGE. 
I 
The Boston Office is i,nvestigating three cases involving 
possible sabotage to three vessels of the United States Navy. 
: , • Between 9-28-59 and 10-19-59, 279 cuts were found • in the 
electrical cable,c; of the nuclear submarine "Nautilus.," which wa.1 
being overhauled at Portsmouth, New.Hampshire. ·It has been determined 
that 42 · of these cuts could have been made accidentally. On .Il-12-59 
foreign material was found in- a pump on the "Naut.tlu.1. 11 The Boston· 
Office has interviewed the e·ntire crew of the "Nautilus" and over 1,500 
shipyard employees. • As many of the damaged cables ·as could je made • 
available by the Navy have been submiited for Laboratory examination 
and additional specimens are _being submitted when they can be mcide 
ai•ailable by th~ Navy. The polygraph has· bee~ used in connectio:i with 
the interviews of suspect indfvidua:Zs and .additional. interviews using 
the polygraph are being arran_9ed. 
l 
· · On 1-15-60 nine smell cuts_were discovered in the degaussing 
cables (protgction against magnetic mines) of the nuclear cruiser • 
"Lor.g Beach, 11 which is bei,ng constructed at Quincy, Ma3sachusetts. 
These cuts· contain no identifying marks J~or Laboratory comparison 
wtth suspect tools. An average of 2,700 employees worked on this 
vessel daily and _a to·bal of approximately 5,000 employees had access 
to it. Over 3,100 individual employees have been interviewed and 
interviews are continuing. 
·\· On 12-28-59, 21 cut· wires were found in the fire control 
wiring o,f the guided missile .frigate "Luce", which i.s also under 
construction. at Quincy, J.f0,sscchusetts. This damage was not reported 
to us or to the Office of Naval Intelligence until 1-11-60 as the· 
damage was origir,,ally considered inadvertent. Over 14)000 employees 
had- access to the vessel. The employ~es •assigned to the area of the 
damage have been ident1fied and· are being interviewed. Other employees 
known to have worked in the area are also beinJ interviewed. The 
damaged wir_es have been forwarded to the FBI Laboratory for examination. 
• \ In connect ion wi,th the damage on the "Long Beach" and "Luce" 
superuiBory employees.have expressed the opinion that this dam<1,ge is 
• o,.f the 11.uisan~e and malicious mischief type rather than _sabotage as the 
dariage was not hidden and was readily apparent. The Boston Office has 
been instructed that dJspite thee3 st~t~ments thts dcnage ha~ been 
