crisis for t.hc:n. to have authorized a Castro assassination. (Bundy, p. 95, 
Tiundy further stated that he wo.s never to1J by anyone that assassination 
efforts ,-:ere undcn,•ay against Castro, that uncler1<,;orhl ligures ,-:ere hired by 
the CI/\ in this rcganl, or tl1at Harvey was engaeccl in C1stro assossinotion ac-
tivity. (Bundy, p. 63.) 
Bundy tcstifie<l that he heard about the concept of "executive 
"Some time in the early months of 1961". (Dundy, 7/11/75, p. 4.) 
action". 1,v('j l / I -
nut since 
tl1is was presented to him cis an untargeted can;i.bi lity only he did not "dis­
courage or dissuade" the person who briefed hir.1 on this. (Bundy, p. 4, 7, 10.) 
M1en asked if he ha<l any reco] lection· of any specific covert plans tlmt :involved 
poisons rn conjunction with activities against Cuba, !>mdy stated 
"I have no recollection of any specific plan. Id~ 
have a very vague, essentially refreshed recollection 
that I heard the word poison at some point in connec­
tion with a possibility of action in Cuba. But that 
is as far as I have been able to take it in my own 
memory. (Bundy, p. 42). 
Bundy stated further that this recollection relating to poison involved a 
proposal that seemed "impractical" because it was going to kill a large group· 
of people in a headquarters mess, or something of that sort," (Bundy,p.42-43). 
_!_/ Bundy stated: 
"\Y',J:. ~ .. ,'I";' 
" ... the most important point I want to mak 'f· is that 
I find the notion that they separately, privat~ly encouraged, 
ordered, arranged efforts at assassination totally incon­
sistent with what I knew of both of them. And, as an 
example, I would cite -- and one among very many -- the role 
played by the Attorney G~neral in the Missile Crisis, because 
it was he who, most emphatically, argued against a so-called 
surgical air strike or any other action that would bring 
death upon many' in favor of the more careful 'approach which 
was eventually adopted by the President in the form of a 
quarantine or a blockade." (Bundy, p. 98) . 
NW 50'95.5 Docld: 32423539 Page 191 • 
