13-00000 
.. .. 
• 
- 2 -
the JCS and Secretary McNamara also strongly supported it. 
Mr. Johnson pointed out that he would be much happier if the 
paper had been sent to the Cuban Coordinating Committee in 
accordance with usual procedures. Mr. Vance stated that the 
committee knows all about it and are for it. Mr. McCone 
stated that he was disturbed over the trend of events in Cuba 
and that this particular paper really does not go far enough. 
He pointed out that our economic denial program was eroding 
away and that the courses of action proposed by Mr. Vance's 
memo. ga;ve Castro maxinium grounds for righteous indignation 
without really accomplishing anything. Mr. Vance stated that 
prior activities in this regard had created great consternation 
in Cuba, and Bundy challenged this and asked for proof. Mr. 
McCone pointed out the many times that we have had to stand 
down actions of this type in order to avoid raising the noise 
level. General Taylor said that what we really must do is to 
reaffirm the belief of the senior policy makers to the President 
that a program of this type must be continued. Mr. Bundy 
pointed out that the Secretary of Defense had previously stated 
to the President, along with Secretary Rusk, that they were 
not enthusiastic for this type of activity but he noted now that 
Mr. McNamara had reversed his position. Bundy pointed out 
that we have been somewhat hesitant to go ahead full force on 
these actions because we did not want to prejudice our position 
before the OAS in connection with the Venezuelan arms cache. 
Mann stated that our entire program as regards Cuba was 
ineffective insofar as it could result in any overthrow of Castro. 
At about this point both Mr. Mann and Mr. McCone stated that 
we should do everything possible to create provocations and 
distressing actions against Castro. Bundy stated that the low 
risk actions appear unrewarding and that rewarding actions have 
too high a risk. Mann stated that we need to do a lot more 
homework before the next OAS meeting {presently unscheduled) 
and Bundy said. in any event we must have a top-level Cabinet 
Meeting with the President to discuss this whole matter. The 
agenda item was left as follows: 
a. Mann is to get the Crimmins staff hard at work 
on the Vance paper and on other alternative courses 
of action to include pros and cons, noise levels, 
estimated results, etc. 
