-.... _. 
' 
I 
' I 
I 
I 
CUBA TRIP, ARREST A:"!D DETPJTIO:N, 1960 
(There is no conclusive evidence such as formal memo­
randa in the file to indicate that this Agency initiated 
action to send Wiley to Cuba. However, inferences from 
routing slips, memoranda and expense voucher payments wouid 
indic2.te that this trip was for CIA. Contrary to inferert'ccs 
by SRS officers, there is-no indication, again such as a 
formal memorandum, in the \'iiley fi 1 es that he, under CIA 
instruction, courted arrest and detention so that he could 
find out inforr.1ation about the three staff employees ,.-ho 
were ii:1prisoned there. This does not preclude that there 
might not be written notes of such a plan buried in other 
files. The best indicator is Paul Gaynor's comment on a 
routing slip to CIA Cover Empl<?yee dated 2 February 1970, 
"His (1'[iley 1 s) im.prisonnerlt in Cuba was an operation on 
behalf of FE-TSD-0S-DCI-DDP.") 
On 9 August 1960, Wiley reported the following infor­
mation to ifurse Allen of SRS concerning his trip to Cuba: 
appioxirnately 7:00 p.m. o~ the evening of 27 July 1960. 
During the period between his arrival and his arrest, 'Mr. 
Wiley stated that he had ~ade no business type contacts 
and that he had merely wandered abotit the streets of Havana 
looking for news items. (Wiley is covered as a correspon­
dent for radio station WOR of New York City plus other n~ws­
paper correspondent type coverage.) During this period,'_ 
Wiley stated he contacted Ruby Phillips of the New York 
Times and he met and talked with Dave Webber, a~ringer 
for NBC who was staying a~ the Libre Hotel. In addition, 
Wiley stated that he had spent a certain amount of time 
doing nothing but moving about the Libre Hotel. Wiley 
stated further·that during the l6th and on the 27th he 
had been interviewing delegates to the Latin American 
Youth Congress then convening in Havana, Cuba. During 
these interviews, Wiley had acted as a typical newspaper-
man and had with him a tape recorder which he had brought 
with him when he came into Cuba and which he had previously 
registered with the Cuban customs authorities. 
- 19 -
C\A 
NW 50955 Docid:32203889 Page 22 
