i f. 
l < 
f 
I t 
i i 
i 
!-
K. 
I"' 
\ 
'I, ' 
[ 
( 
- ··• SECTION 107. SECUR:f-TY INFORMANTS -•tND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 107K 
INFORMA.NT FILES 
1. Opening 
a. When active investigation is initiated regarding potential informant 
or confidential source who is not subject of security-type- file, 
open 134 file. 
b. If individual is subject of security case and after being interviewed 
appears to have potential as inforw~nt, open separate 134 file to 
follow informant development. In espionage and foreign nationality 
matters, existing file may be used if this is practical. • 
c. ~~intain individual files on all active informants as pending active 
files. 
2. 11onthly administrative report 
Include files on potential informants and informants in tabulations and 
calculations of delinquencies in monthly administrative repo:i:-t. 
3. Assignment and tickler cards 
~~intain assignment and tickler cards, but do not show true· name of 
informant, [potential informant, panel source or confidential source 1 
on such cards. 
4. Subfiles 
a~ Subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, writ·ten 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where 
subfile is- necessary only in those instances involving. po?sible 
prosecution. File in· this subfile original of each statementi· 
whether personally written by informant or furnished orally and 
reduced to writing by ~ontaoting Agent. Stapl• executed form FD-305 
or channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items on form 
FD-306 to original of each such statement. 
b. Holes may be. punched in original statements of informa~ts for 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obli~eration of any 
portion of statements or notations thereon. 
5. Channelization 
Include excerpts from informant's statement in regular investigative 
case report when information of value is submitted. Form FD-306 may be 
used to disseminate this information to case file in lieu of channel:i,zing 
memorandum if desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as need·ed :f'or 
channelization and staple one copy to each copy of informant I s state-
ment being channelized. Channelization .should be noted on original 
FD-306 and all copies. 
6. Channelizing memoranda - destruction of 
See ~nual of Rules and Regulations. 
7. Correspondence 
Correspondence in security informant and potential security informant 
matters should be strictly limited to adminis'trative handling of informant 
and should not contain information more properly furnished under. sub­
stantive case caption. 
8. 1:-Iaintenance of :fi_les 
a. ~~intain all symbol number informant files, pending and closed, 
under lock and key under personal supervision of SAC, ASAC, field 
supervisor, or responsible employee designated by SAC. 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in open 
files section, provided there is no disclosure of informant's 
identity on statements. 
c. Maintain informant files so that all information furnished by in-
formant .will be immediately available vrhen needed. . 
d. In addition, maintain these files so identities of cases in which an 
informant has furnished competent evidence can be obtained immedia.tely by 
simply referring to file of informant and without extensive research. 
13 
6-14-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1708 
