( 
( 
( 
i 
H. 
SECTION 107.SECURITY INFOR:t-1.A.lrTS AND CONFII.I'IAL SOURCES 
d. All such material should be transmitted in the same manner as 
statements furnis=i.ed by informant. 
107G - I 
e. Receipt of such mater·ial should be recorded on form FD-3q_6 or on a 
channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items s-et forth 
on form FD-306. See section 1071'1 for filing instructions. 
PASSING INFOR11.ATION IN .DOUBLE AGENT OPERATIONS 
1. Carefully handle and create basis for acquisition 
a. In double a-gent operations information requested by the principals· 
is frequently passed either to build up a double agent's stature 
or as evidence of espionage activity. 
b. Each case must be carefully evaluated to make certain that. a net 
gain accrues to the U. s. 
c. The information which is passed should be carefully handled.and 
appropriate explanations created for its acquisition by the double 
agent to avoid his compromise. 
2, Locating information to pass 
Wherever possible the field office handling the double agent should 
locate appropriate information to be passed; however, the Bureau can 
assist in fulfilling requests for information in possession of 
Government agencies. 
3. Obtaining Bureau authority 
Bureau authority must be obtained to pass any information in a double 
agent operation except: 
a, Newspaper articles 
b. Magazine articles 
c. Pamphlets~ brochures, etc., prepared by a private company or corporation 
for distribution or sale to the public. (This does not include highly 
technical pamphlets, even if unclassified, which are prepared for 
limited use by engineering staffs and not intended for release to the 
public.) 
4. Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be retained by the office of origin of any documents 
or material related to the national defense which is passed in double 
agent operations. 
b. Such material should be appropriately identified by the double agent. 
c. Bureau Agents should not place identifying data on such material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in connection with the passage 
of such material, 
d. Similar action should be taken with regard to any material which is 
passed which is considered evidentiary although not clearly rela·!;ed 
to the national defense. 
e. It is not necessary to retain copies of buildup material· obviously 
not evidentiary in nature where there is assurance that copies can 
be obtained at a later date from the Government agency or private 
concern having custody. 
I. SYMBOLS 
1. Assigning numbers 
a. All informants should be designated by a permanent symbol number of 
which the Bureau must be adYised. Once a symbol number is assigned 
it must not be subsequently reassigned[to any other security, racial' 
or criminal informant.or source or confidential tecHnique.). • ·' 
• b. Potential security informants and confidential sources whose identity 
must be protected may be assigned permanent symbol numbers if th·ey are 
producing sufficient information to warran·;; the use of such designations. 
c. Individuals to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be advised 
of such symbols, 
d. An additional cover name should be used by informant iri signing his 
statements and in communications between the informant and the field 
office. • 
e. Bureau should be advised of this cover name in addition to the per­
manent symbol. 
13 
4-13-64 
I! NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1571 
