14-00000 
.MAR 0t '95 12:51PM 
• ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY 
MEMORANDUM FOR: John Pereira 
Barry Harrelson • 
CSI/HRG 
FROM: Kathryn I. Dyer 
DI/IRO 
1 March 1995 
P.2 
SUBJECT: Comments--ARRB Proposed Interpretive Regulations 
1. I have reviewed the proposed interpretive regulations 
drafted by the Assassination Records Review Board, particularly 
the sections addressing the ARRB's interpretation of the scope of 
certain provisions of the Assassination Records Collection Act. 
Whi1e I have comments on a number of sections, there is one 
section in particular which raises serious concerns--principally 
1400,2 regarding additional information and records. 
2, As presently worded, this section opens up significant 
records which have nothing to do per se with the assassination, 
and which are currently protected by various laws, including the 
National Security Act of 1947, and, moreover, are exempt from 
disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. 
For example, (d) Organizational charts of government agencies. 
(e) Records necessary and sufficient to describe the 
the Agency I s: 
(1) Records policies and schedules, 
(2) Filing systems and organization, and 
(3) Storage facilities and location. 
Items (a) and (b) of this section ( 1400.2) also pose similar 
problems in that (a) includes all documenes J.l§fill by agencies 
during their declassification review ... This includes sll 
materials including omnibus classification guides or other 
materials (i.e. not merely those prepared for use in the JFK 
review) which would identify sensitive material across the board. 
Similarly, item (b) includes materials "created or used by 
agencies in furtherance of their review .... 0 This entire section 
should at a minimum be restricted to items created by agencies 
for use in the assassination reviews. For example, if the DO has 
a master list of cryptonyms, some of which appear in JFK 
documents, only the subset should be included. Generic 
categories of information which stand alone on their own merits 
should be omitted. 
ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY 
