87D 
[ 
r 
(5) 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
,f ::--- \ 
(f) 
_ .,,,CTIOH 87. sr.cmnTY INVESTil .-rs 
.An-vise the Bureau. p-r·omptly in form suitable for dis:.emi-­
na-tion of a subject'$ return f'rom travel abrou.d in those· 
instances in which stops have been placed·with ~ccurity 
services abroad through the agencies listed above, In 
instances in which an individual against 1•:hom stops hav.e 
been placed has traveled to any country behind the Iron 
Curtain~ the Bure2.u shall also be furnished at tha·t time 
with recommendations as to the desira.bi.lity of interview 
of such person and with advice as to whether additio-nal 
investigation concerning him is contemplatefr. In tho event 
such an interview is authorized, it shall be conducted 
promptly and the case shall not be closed un tj 1 such· inter­
vievr is had and the results thereof' submitted in report 
form. 
(g) In some instances a security investigation of a subject not 
yet included in the security index may be in progress at 
the time it is found that the subj~ct has re~cntly depart~d 
fo1· a foreign country. If the evidence developed at that 
tim& warrants the inclusion of th~ subject in ~he security 
index were it not for the fact that he ii outside the U. S., 
form FD-122 should be submitted recommending his inclusion 
in the unavailable section of the security index. After all 
initial investigation is completed, the eubject•~ case will 
be handled the same as thos.e of other subJects of a similar 
status who are. included in the unavailable section a~- ou.; of 
the country. • 
If the subject ·is an alien who has been dqported Dr has 
otherwise permanently departed from t·he U. S., he ~hould 
not be included in the security index~ 
When it is determined that a. security index subject has 
departed for a foreign country, hi• security index ca.rd 
shall be placed in the unavailable section and his ca.qe 
ha-ndled in accordance wi-th the instructions set for·l;h 
under 87D 7b (6) (b) IV. 
Investigative techniques 
While it is no·l; possible to enumerate all investigative techniques 
whic11 can a'nd should be employed in these investigations, the:-e 
are certain proven techniques which have.been used with con­
tinued success and ·should be applied wherever possiblq. 
(a) File reviews 
• Upon the initiation of_ a security invest.ig-ation of an -
individual, check the office indices and review files 
thoroughly for any 'pertinent information on record. -~:owing. 
background and subversive activity of each individv -1 
subject. In'cl_ud e such information in the initial iuvc sti­
ga ti ve report. 
Once a main security file has been o~e~ed for an individual, 
subseo1.ter; '. • .:.tarmation received concerning him should be 
. ohann;liz<:. ,_,; that file. The refe.rence cards pertaining 
to the subje0t should be consolidated in the indices 
after each check and review of files has been made. 
(b) Security informants 
110 
Success of security investigations of individuals is 
primarily ~ ~pendent upon a .broad confid-ential informant 
coverage ¼ithin every phase of subversive activity. 
• -Information and evidence developed through such sources 
are unsurpassed in value because of possible use :not only .. 
for. intelligence purposes but also as admissible evidence. 
34 
7-15-60 
( 
