[N NARCOTICS 
· J3 gangland slnyings 
::·:rn1,dancl s1ayings as 
!1:1t you liave? 
! ,·st.imony, it has he•~n 
!past, iii. 'solving any 
. 11s, and it would not 
: slayings"? 
, being the only one 
11f the gangland slay­
,·ontrnsted with your 
· of witnessps who are 
.,rmalion wlin.tsoever. 
!iad nine witnessrs in 
r or knew anything 
·ing upon the question 
1-:izes the rigid clisci­
he violated without 
·:ere in the room when 
of them knew what 
•dv did not know it. 
,·m talking would be 
·,. and I do not mean 
•1•111 were inrlinrd to 
,\nd that makPs it 
'" gangland slaying::;, 
1 th sentence, of their 
1 if they talk. 
, :1.t. poirit down, they 
· more concerned for 
,nt immunity against 
·1frnid for their lives. 
I. 
ORGANIZED CRI.ME AND ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS 537 . 
.Mr. BROWN. I have had these gangland slayings listed, with a few 
pertinent comments about each, and submit to the subcommittee this 
list as our exhibit 5. 
The CnAIIDL\N. It may be received and be made exhibit No. 50. 
(The document referred to was marked "Exhibit No. 50" for ref-
erence and may be found in the files of the subcommittee.) 
(At this point Senator ,favits withdrew from the hearing room.) 
The Cu.URMAN. You may proceed. 
Mr. BnowN. 'With few exceptions, those murders well reflect J h 
Valachi's testimony that Mafia members do live by violence a ie 
by violence . 
At least two of the unsolved murders on our list-that of Gus Perez 
in 1936 and of Joe "Pelusa" Diaz in 1D58-were, in my opinion, di­
rectly attributable to the Mafia's knowledge or belief that the victims 
had iven to lcga~ authorities evidence ~ncriminating Mafia m~mbei:'. 
A rd murder-of Carl Carramusa, m 1D45-takmg place m Clu­
cago, involved some Tampa Mafiosi, and is of particular interest in 
illustr • he Mafia zeal for vengeance against a member who vio-
lates its r . It is of further significance, too, in demonstrating the 
difliculty of protecting witnesses against the l\fafia-and is under-
lining Attorney General Kennedy's uest for additional funds for 
that purpose, which request I strongly orse. 
The Carramusa case developed in Kansas City, .Mo., with certain 
aspects related to the ifafia organization in Tampa. The principal 
figure in the case was Carl Carramusa, known as a minor member of 
the Mafia and a front man for the Mafia's narcotics traffic operation 
in Kansas City. 
Carrnmusa was indicted in Hl42 for conspi to violate the Fed-
eral narcotic laws. His codefendants were ph DeLuc.n, Nicola 
Impastat aul Antinori, Joe Antinori, Charles Gerrgimina, Louis 
Ventola, y Ventola, Charles Tiabi, Samuel Pernice, and Fellipo 
Fernice. Tampa's ~fafia organization was one of the sources of sup-
ply for the Kansas Cit roup, and at that time the narcotics trade 
m Tampa was headed Paul Antinori and ,Jose Antinori, who 
had inherited the narcotics leadership from their , Ignazio An-
tinori. The elder Antinori had been murdered a few years before in 
a narcotics deal. All of the defendants in the Kansas City case were 
prosecuted successfully, primarily because Carramusa violated the 
cardinal Mali.a code of l'omcrta, or silence, testifying openly against 
them at their trial. After the trial, Carramusa went into hiding in 
Chic.ago with his wife and family, changing his name and beginning 
a new life under new circumstances. 
Three years later, in ,June of 1!)45, while he ,vas seated in his auto­
mobile, Carramusa's head was blowt1 off by a shotgun blast. James 
Lumia, an associate of the Antinoris, was a suspect in this killing, 
but was himself murdered at Tampa, in June of 1950. A prime suspect 
was the same Nicola Impastato, who had some years before attempted 
to kill Charles Wall. 
In Tampa we have suffered also the frustration I know that many 
of my police colleagues in other cities have experienced-the deliberate 
recantmg at trial of the original statements of co aining or key 
,;: witnesses, because of their fear of l\faJia reprisal. clear instance 
of this frustration of law enforcement effort involved three of the 
ranking members of the Tampa Mafia. 
50955 Docld:32423630 Page 677 
