University ot montana 
missoula, montana 59801. 
(406) 243-0211 
Senator Mike Mansfield 
~r. S. Senate Office i3uilding 
Washington, D.C. 20510 
Dear Senator Hansfield: 
Decemuer 2, 1975 
Iou may recall that some WP.eks ago you were kind enough to arrange a 
meeting between myself .and Mr. \·hlliam Miller, of the staff of the Senate Select 
Cornrr:i ttee on Intelligence. Iou arr,rn1~ed this meeting for me so that I could 
present documents, which I showed you, relating to possible CIA illegal activ­
ities in Indochina. Specifically, as you know, I ha,·e long been interested in 
the problem of who carried out the r~assive defoliation raids against Cambodia, 
one year prior to the H .. ':. incursions into that country and during a time when, 
formally, there were normal relations between the United States and the Royal 
government of Cambodia. After talking with you about the matter,. I met, for 
about one-half hour, with Ur. :'iller and showed him the documents I .showed you. 
He made some notes and assured me that the question of possible illegal activ­
ities of the CIA in Indochina, including Cambodia, was on the agenda of his 
committee. Sometime ago, I wrote tr. liiller to find out when he expected the 
committee might look into Indochina. However, as has b~~-r:i 1h.e. ... c.:_ase ;:,i~<::e 
:'•llgV.s~with __ resoect to C01'11'1unica:ticms from th.is ccm11nHtee, I have as yet re­
ceived no answer-;·--r10t even an acknowledgement of receipt. I have just read 
in the press that the Senate Intelligence Cornrdttee expects again to look at· 
(;hile, Cuba, etc., but there is no indication of any interest in Indochina. 
I would i:;reat·ly appreciate your help in learning whether, in fact, the Senate 
Select Committee on Intelligence will look into possible illegal co\itert opera-
tions of 11 ,:). intelligence agencies in It1dochina. I would also appreciate ){ 
your views as to \'That I should do to get an investigation of the massive clan­
destine herbicide attack on Cambodia (1969) .. This was a unique operation in 
technological history of foreign relations arid as a biologist I mn moclt.inter­
ested and concerned to get the full story on this bizarre inc~dent. If the 
.Senate ::elect Comrs,ittee will not ask obvious questions of the intelligence 
community, I would greatly appreciate your v-'..ews on whCJ/11 I should turn to, to 
ask these questions. 
I want to thank you again for your hel:) on rriy last trip to Washington. I 
regret that I have to keep both.ering 'you about th:i.s matter, but I do hope JOU 
understand my concern, ba::;eJ on my personsl o\1serv<1tions in Indochtna, that 
the f:icts about co\'ert operations there be pubEcA.liy determineci. 
Equal Opportunity in Education and Employment 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 297 
