----- :; 
.! 
3. NEED FOR CRIMINAL-TYPE LEGISLATION 
Since April 30, 19 58, the Bureau has suggested certain items 
of legislation relative to establishing some effective curbs on the activities of 
racketeerso The most recent communication to the Department in this regard 
wa~ a memorandum to Deputy Attorney General Walsh dated September 2, 
1959, captioned "Legisl~ive Program, Eighty-sixth Congress, Second Sessiono" 
These legislative suggestions are as follows: • 
L There appears to be a need for legislation to prohibit the 
interstate transportation of certain gambling paraphernalia, such as number 
slips and punch boards in addition to the present prohibition of interstate 
transportation of slot machineso 
2. It also appears the interstate transmission of gambling. 
information should be restricted to prohibit the transmission of gambling 
information in interstate or foreign commerce by any communication facilityo 
Such legislation should also encompass the transmission of information as to 
the results of horse racing events until after a specified time had elapsecL 
The inability to have current race results would discourage the operations of 
bookmaking establishmentso 
3. Inasmuch as under the present provisioris of the Internal 
Revenue Code income derived from illegal businesses and from gambling 
constitutes income which is taxable and assessed in the same manner as· 
legitimate income, it appears that if. the. income from such illicit sources· were 
taxed at vastly higher rates it might make such activities financially prohibitiveo 
Inasmuch as certain individuals would attempt to avoid such taxes, it might 
be desirable to initiate legislation to provide substantial criminal penalties for 
the failure to pay such taxeso 
4o It also appears legislation may be desirable to amend the · 
White Slave Traffic Act in order that the prostitute herself could be prosecutedo 
There is considerable activity among .those who are engaged in this livelihood 
and who go from state to state jn order .to ply their trade. 
5. As an added weapon against organized crime, ~t appears it 
may be desirable to afford consideration to the enactment of a Federal habitual 
• criminal act which would provide for mandatory sentences upon the commission 
of off ens es wit:1hin Federal jurisdiction. 
In addition, the Bureau is in agreement with the Administration's 
theory of amending the Fugitive Felon Act to include damage by fire or 
explosives to religious or educational facilities. The House Judic1ary Committee 
has failed to approve this -proposal and has adopted a bill (IL Ro 8601) which ,vould 
prohibit damage_ to any building, structure, facility, vehicle or dwelling house. 
-5--------------------------· ----- - -------~==:-::--~ 
