,.. 
~ 
~ 
Q 
f 
l:. 
• 
i I 
~­-~· 
10 April 1975 
The Third Agency Rule 
1. As early as November 1953, the third agency rule was included 
in Executive Order 10501, which has now been revoked. Section 7(c) 
prohibited the dissemination of "classified defense information originating· 
in another Department or agency 11 to an agency noutside the receiving 
Department or agency without the consent of the originating Department 
or agency. 11 The o;nly exception to thi.s !'.Ut~ i;; th<?-t diss_emination·ma'y"he 
made under the authority of Section 102 of the National Security Act. T.his 
section authorizes the Director of"Central IntelUgence rrto correlate and 
evaluate intelligence relating to the national security, and provide for the 
appropriate dissemination of such intelligence within the Government.using, 
where appropriate, existing agencies and facilities. 11 
2. Historically, the responsibility of the Director of Central Intelli­
gence to.disseminate intelligence has r(;!ferred to 11finished intelligence, 11 
This product is the end result of contributions from members of the Intelli­
gence Community. Therefore, in this situation the finished product is a -
homogenous product and therefore the approval for further dissemination 
beyond the receiving agency must come from the Director of Central 
Intelligence. 
3. Executive Order 10501 was superseded by Executive Order 11652 
which became effective 1 June 1972. This Executive order did not specifically 
cover the third agency rule. However, it does provide the following controls: 
Sec. 9. Special Departmental Arrangements. The originating Department or • 
other appropriate authority may impose, in conformity with the provisions of 
this order, special requirements with respect to access, distribution and 
protection of classified information and material, including those which 
presently relate to communications intelligence, intelligence sources and 
methods and cryptography. • 
4. In anticipation of the implementation of Executive Order 11652, a 
directive was issued on May 17, 1972 entitled "National Security Council 
Directive Governing the Classification, Downgrading, Declassification and 
Safeguarding of National Security Information. 11 This directive does not 
contain the term 11third agency rule" but does have four subsections which 
relate to procedures which are similar to what historically had been called 
the th~:rd agency rule. These sections are: 
A. (2) Determination of Need-to-Know. In addition to a 
security clearance, a person must have a need for access to 
the particular classified information or material sought in 
connection with the performance of his official duties or 
contractual obligations. The determination of that need shall 
be made by officials having responsibility for the classified 
in.for ma ti.on or material. 
38296 Docld:32989532 Page 125 
-- ...._ ~· 
