\ 
ARMED FORCES SECURITY QUESTIONNAIRE 
1.-EXPLANATION 
1. The interests of National Security require that all persons 
being considered for membership or retention in the Armed 
Forces be reliable, trustworthy, of good character, and of com­
plete and unswerving loyalty to the United States. Accordingly, 
it is necessary for you to furnish information concerning your 
security qualifications. The answers which ,you give will be used 
in determining whether you are eligible for membership in the 
.Armed Forces, in selection of your duty assignment, and for such 
other action as may be appropriate. 
compelled to furnish any statements which you may reasonably 
believe may lead to your prosecution for a crime. This is the 
only reason for which you may avail yourself of the privilege af­
forded by the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer questions 
under Part IV below. Claiming the Fifth Amendment will not 
by itself constitute sufficient grounds to exempt you from mili­
tary service for reasons of security. You are not required to 
answer any questions in this questionnaire, the answer to which 
might be incriminating. If you do claim the privilege gtanted by 
the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer any question, you 
should make a statement to that effect after the question involved. 
2. You are advised that in accordance with the Fifth Amend­
ment of the Constirution of the United States you cannot be 
11.-0RGANIZATIONS OF SECURITY SIGNIFICANCE 
I. There is set forth below a list of names of organizations, 
groups, and movements, reported by the Attorney General of the 
United States as having significance in connection with che 
National Security. Please examine the list carefully, and note those 
organizations, and organizations of similar names, with which you 
are familiar. Then answer the questions set forth in Pan IV below. 
Armed Forces. Your age at the time of such association, cir­
cumstances prompting it, and the extent and frequency of 
involvement, are all highly pertinent, and will be fully weighed. 
Set forth all such faaors under "Remarks" below, and continue 
on separate attached sheets of paper if necessary. 
3. If there is any doubt in your mind as to whether your name 
has been linked with one of the organizati'Ons named, or as to 
whether a particular association is "worth mentioning," make a 
full explanation under '"Remarks.'" 
2. Your statement concerning membership or other association 
with one or more of che organizations named may not, of itself, 
cause you to be ineligible for acceptance or retention· in the 
Organizations cle1lgnated by the Attomey General, punuant to Executive Order 10450, are ll1ted below: 
Communist Party, U. S. A .. its subdivisions, sub­
sidiari~ and affiliates. 
Communist Political Association, its subdivisions, 
subsidiaries and affiliates. including-
Alabama People"s Educational Association. 
Florida Press and Educational League. 
Oklahoma League for Political Education. 
People"s Educational and Pr~s Association of Texas. 
Virginia Le2gue for People's Education. 
Young Communist League. 
Abraham Lincoln Brigade. 
Abraham Lincoln School, Chicago, Illinois. 
Action Committee co Free Spain Now. 
American Association for Reconstruction in Yugo­
slavia. Inc. 
American Branch of the Federation of Greek Mari-
time Unions. 
American Christian Nationalist Patty. 
American Committee for European Workers' Relief. 
American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born. 
American Committee for the Settlement of Jews in 
Birobidjan, Inc. 
American Committee for Spanish Freedom. 
American Committee for Yugoslav Relief, Inc. 
American Committee to Survey Labor Conditions in 
Europe. 
American Council for a Democratic Greece, formerly 
known as the Greek American Council; Greek 
American Committee for National Unity. 
American Council on Soviet Relations. 
American Croatian Congress. 
American Jewish Labor Council. 
American League Against War and Fascism. 
American League for Peace and Democracy. 
American National Labor Party. 
American National Socialist wgue. 
American National Socialist Party. 
American Nationalist Party. 
American Patriots, Inc. 
American Pea.::e Crusade. 
American Peace Mobilization. 
American Poles for Peace. 
American Polish Labor Council. 
American Polish wgue. 
American Rescue Ship Mission ( a proj,cl of 1h, 
Uni1td Arntrican Spani1h Aid Commillet}. 
American-Russian Fraternal Society. 
American-Russian Institute, New York (a/Jo knowr, 
aJ tht Amtric"n RuJJian-lnui1ut, for Cullural R,­
la1ion1 with lht Sovw Unior,}. 
American Russian Institute, Philadelphia. 
American Russian Institute of San Francisco. 
American Russian Institute of Southern California. 
Los Angeles. 
DD , Fi~ 98 PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS 
NW 38ti1J. uocld:34530159 Page 2 
American Sl•v Congress. 
American Women for Peace. 
American Youth Congress. 
American Youth for Democracy. 
Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy. 
Committee for. Constitutional and Political Freedom. 
Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Six. 
Committee for Nationalist Action. 
Committee for the Negro in the Am. Armenian Progressive League of America. 
Associated Klans of America. 
Association of Georgia Klans. 
Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in 
Philadelphia. 
Association of· German Nationals ( Rtich1dtu1Jcht 
V,,-,int?,ung). 
Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights. 
Committee for Wodd Youth Friendship and Cul-
Ausland-Organization der NSD/\P, Overseas Branch 
of Nazi Party. 
Baltimore Forum. 
Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee. 
Black Dragon Society. 
rural Exchange. 
Committee to Defend Marie Richardson. 
Comminee to Uphold the Bill of Rights. 
Commonwealth College. Mena, Arkansas. 
Congress Against Discrimination. 
Congress of the Unemployed. Boston School for Marxist Studies, Boston, Massa­
chusens. Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Smith 
Bridges-Robettson-Schmidt Defense Committee. 
Bulgarian American People"s League of the United 
States of America. 
Act. 
Connecticut State Youth Conference. 
Congress of American Revolutionary Writers. 
Congress of American Women. 
California Emergency Defense Committee. Council on African Affairs. 
California Labor School, Inc., 321 Oivisadero Street. Council of Greek Americans. 
San Francisco, California. • Council for Jobs, Relief, and Housing. 
Carpatho-Russ,an People's Society. Council for Pan-American .Democracy. 
Central Council of American Women of Croatian Croatian Benevolent Fraternity. 
Descent ( a/Jo kr,own aJ Ctn Ira I Council of ,1 mtr· 
ican Croalian Womm, National Council of Croa- Dai Nippon Butoku Kai ( Mililary Virlut Socit!Y of 
tian Womtn} Japan or Military Ari Socitly of Japan). 
Central Japaneje· Association ( Beikoku Chuo Ni Mon- Daily Worker Press Club. rr Daniels Defense Committee. 
jin Kai). • Dante Alighieri Society·fBtlu'tm 1935 and 1940). 
Central Japanese Association .of Southern California .. Dennis Defense Committee. 
Central Organization of the German-American Na- Detroit Youth Assembly. 
tional Alliance ( DeutJCht-Amerikani1ch, Einb,iu- East Bay Peace Committee. 
fronl). Elsinore Progressive League. 
Cervantes Fraternal Society. Emergency Conference to Save Spanish Refugees 
China Welfare Appeal, Inc. I foundin?, body of the North American Spani1h Aid 
Chopin Cultural Center. Commilltt). 
Citizens Committee to Free Earl Browder. Everybody"s Committee ''to Outlaw War. 
Citizens Committee for Harry Bridges. 
Citizens Committee of the Upper West Side ( Neu• 
,York Cily}. ' 
Citizens Emergency Defense Confcrence0 
Citizens l>roteciive League. • 
Civil Libenies Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh. 
Civil Rights Congress and its affiliated organiza-
tions, including Civil Rights Congress for Texas. 
Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights 
Coniiress of New York. 
Columbians. 
Comirc Coordinador Pro Republica Espanola. 
Comite Pro Derechos Civiles. 
Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland. 
Families of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims. 
Families of die Smith Act Victims. 
Federation of Italian. War Veterans in the U. S. /\., 
Inc. ( Auociaziont Nazional, Comba11m1i llaliani, 
Ftdwaztone d,gli S/ali Unifi d' Amtrica). 
Finnish-American Mutual Aid Society. 
Florida Press and Educational League. 
Frederick Douglass Educational Center. 
Freedom Stage, Inc. 
Friends of the New Germany / Freund, dn N,um 
DeutJChl,md1). 
Friends of the Soviet Union. 
Garibaldi American Fraternal Society. 
Committee 10 Aid the Fighting South. 
Committee 10 Defend the Rights and 
Pittsburgh"s Political. Prisoners. 
George Washington Carver School. New York Ciry. 
Freedom of jQJlf $"'crican Bund I llmmkadt111Jrhtr Vol~,-
.RE OBSOLETE (for Army use). Page I 
0 
-t 
