13-00000 
·\ \ 
19~ Congressional Testimony: Have you ever testified before a Committee of the Congress? If 
. so, please provide details, induding date(s). 
No. ..,: . r 
20. Selection: 
(a) . Do you know why you were chosen for this nomination by the President? 
I was one of six lawyers recommended for nomination to President Bush in Deceml>c:.r, . 
1992 by the President of the American Bar Association, J. Michael McWilliams, as 
required by the statute. The recommendation was unsolicited. I was selected flom the 
recommendations. 
(b) What do you believe in your background or employment experience iiifirm.tively 
qualifies you for .this particular appointment? .~ • .1 ••• 
I have extensive public law experience, including over seven years as the senior managing 
lawyers in a highly-regarded attorneys general's office with over 425 staff members. I 
have handled many of the most sensitive legal disputes involving the State of Minnesota 
over that time, personally arguing three United States Supreme Coun cases and winning 
two. I have served throughout as the chief legal counsel to the Governor of MinnesQta. I 
have considerable experience dealing with Minnesota's open records law and have a 
reputation of approaching issues in a fair, thoughtful and impanial manner. I.have not 
bc;cn involved in any dispute over the assassination.records and belieye that; ilthoiigfil am 
a strong bcliev~ in openness in government. I will approach the task in. a fair manner .. I 
• have considerable experience setting up governmental organizations and administrative 
processes and believe that experience will be helpful in organizing the process by which 
the_ Panel will conduct its work. I have played a leadership role within the National 
Association of Attorneys General, particularly on management-related issues. • 
B. FUfURE EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIPS 
' • 
1. Will you sever all connections with your present employers, business firms, business 
associations or business organi7.ations if you are confirmed by the Senate? 
No. My understanding is that the position is pan-time and I have, no conflict of interest in my 
current position. I will take leave time from the State for any days I am working on panel 
business. 
2. Do you ha,·e any plans, commitments or agreements to pursue outside employment, with 
or without compensation, during your service with the government? If so, explain. • 
Yes. I will conlinue my employment with lhe State of Minnesola and a planned position as 
Adjunct Professor of Constitutional Law a1 the University of Minf!~~Ola Law School. 
John R. Tunheim 
