- 42 
TAB C 
• FUNDING AND PAYROLLING MECHANISMS 
l. The various types of Funding and Payrolling Mechanisms used .by 
the Agency are described below: 
a. Devised Facilities--Those Agency-owned and managed mechanisms 
which are incorporated in U.S. jurisdictions (various States) with 
nominee stockholders and are used to provide nonofficial ·cover pay-
• roll support to Agency assets who do not have to show highly visible 
cover employment. They are also used for other nonofficial cover 
support tasks such as funding of proprietary organizations. No 
books of account are maintained but annual tax returns are prepared 
by Headquarters specialists in a manner to make it appear that the 
mechanism is conducting normal commercial business. Since the tax 
return cannot be substantiated from commercial records, the Internal 
Revenue Service (IRS) must be notif~ed of Agency interest i~ the 
entity in the event of a proposed IRS audit. Management, including 
direct control of the corporate bank accounts, is effected by 
·specialists at Headquarters. Funds are transferred from Headquarters 
to the bank account of each.entity in amounts and at times necessary 
to meet funding obligations; otherwise, minimum balances are main­
tained in the accounts to keep them open. 
b. Devised Facilities-Notionals--Those Agency-owned and managed 
mechanisms similar to Devised Facilities except that the mechanisms 
are not incorporated; they are sole proprietorships. The same 
administrative procedures are used as for Devised Facilities. 
c. Notiona1s--Those Agency-owned and managed mechanisms which 
are merely business names (not formally constituted or registered) 
which ostensibly do business at the address of an answering service 
or witting attorney. Operating officials are usually fictitious 
and management is effected by specialists at Headquarters. These 
entities are generally used as funding attribution for monies paid 
to bona fide corporations in reimbursement of cover costs for Agency 
assets, and they are· also used to fund proprietary organizations. 
The same administrative procedures are used as for Devised Facilities. 
2. As of 31 October 1975, the number of mechanisms i.n each category 
is as follows: 
j i h 
a. Devised Facilities 
b. Devised Facilities-Nationals 
c. ·Nationals 
• Total ·, :' /1 ·, )fd 
31 
67 
228 
326 
,-
i 
,. 
! 
I 
! 
~ , 
I 
l 
[ 
