.------~~~~~~----,;-;/,. ~ -
...... 
,~,s ;ationa~rch on 
·pentagon, April 10, 1911 
CONFID 
,.r- 1. APPENDIX 
REVOLUTIONARY YOUTH MOVEMENT 
I A L 
A source advised that the Revolutionary Youth 
Movement II (RYMII) faction of Students for a Democratic 
Society (SOS) held a national conf~rence at Atlanta, Georgia, 
from November 26 to 30, 1969. At this conference it was 
decided to form a new organization to be known as Revolutionary 
Youth Movement (RYM), characterized as a mass anti-imperialist 
youth organization, said organization being proposeg .as 
separate and distinct i~ form and content from sos. The 
"Principles of Unity" ad9pted by the conference included a 
struggle against white supremacy and male suprernacyt _fights 
against imperialism, an~ic9mmunism, fascism and oppression 
of youth~ and support of the right of self-determination of 
all "oppressed nations," also support of the right of all 
"oppressed and exploited" peoples "to armed self-defense." 
It was agreed that RYM would not be a Marxist-Leninist 
organization; however, source said this was decided in order 
to indicate an organization broad enough in form to be 
acceptable to everyone. A temporary National Steering 
Committee (NSC) made up of eight females and two males was 
elected to govern RYM until national ofticers could be 
elected during the· Spring of 1970. 
RYM publications have listed the RYM National Office 
(NO) at Post Office Box 5421 and Post Office Box 77012 c, 
both Atlanta, Georgia, and a second source has advised that 
the NO has no office space but would probably be considered as 
located at Apartment 27, 1067 Alta Avenue, Northeast, Atlanta. 
Second source advised that women dominated the 
founding conference and have continued to dominate NSC 
meetings to the point that "women's liberation 11 has apparently 
become the RYM's principal issue - also that RYM's poor 
financial condition has resulted in its failure to publish 
a paper. During early 1970, RYM has decided to cater to 
the working class rather than youth, since the potential for 
social revolution lies in workers. 
A third source has stated that it was decided at 
the March, 1970, NSC meeting that RYM women had decided the 
organization will be molded into a "working class, Marxist­
Leninist, revolutionary, anti-imperialist, problack 
nationalist, people's women's liberation organization." 
A characterization of xhe SDS 
is set out separately. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
NW 88321 Docld:32989544 Page 503 - 9 -
