• t 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
H. 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED TO THE ~URE.ll.U 
1. Which does not have a nationwide circulation or interest 
a. Relating to law enforcement concerning 
!
ll Scientific apparatus 
2 Equipment 
3 Personnel 
4 Methods 
( 5) Economics _ . 
6H 
b. Newspaper cl:i,ppings., other than items bearing the date line of a 
national wire service, should be submitted when.they concern 
1) The FBI~ derogatory and complimentary. _If possible, show author. 
2) Outstanding abuses .of parole and probation 
3) Outstanding instances of juvenile crime 
4l Bad local crime conditions 
5 Scientific crime detection experts 
6 Bureau polio'? schools only when there is some unus.ua.1 feature 
about the publicity. Examples: items setting forth comments 
made by police officers as to the value of police schools; 
comments on. the caliber of schools in which FBI participates; 
( 7) 
( 8) 
.( g) 
incidents in which a police officer credits instruction he • 
received in a police school as enabling him to capture a fugitive, 
solve a case, or otherwise perform his work more efficiently .. 
(File in individual files ·of police agencies clippings re.la.tive 
to each police ~chool in which field participates.) 
Police training in colleges and universities 
Aggravated sex offenders • 
Matters appearing in the press concerning Members of Congress or 
the names of prominent persons who are mentioned in connection 
with Bureau cases. These matters also include wire service stories 
mentioning directly or indirectly persons of prominence in pending 
investigations- being handled in your division. forward such 
matters immediately and if there is any question as to what 
action should be taken ask for specific instructions. 
(10) Items of interest by nationally syndicated columnists need 
not be submitted i.f it is apparent that such i terns will come 
to the.Bureau's attention through its review of Washington, 
D. c., newspapers. Columns of interest by writers syndicated 
regionally should, of course, be subm1tted. 
2. Method of preparation for transmittal 
a. Mount the clipping on form FD-350 within the borders shown. 
b. Do not fold the clipping except in the case of a very large picture 
or in the case of a single word in a headline too long to fit in the 
allotted space. Make certain the clipping is placed evenly on the 
paper and does not hang over its edges. If necessary, a second page 
may be used and the only requirement is that a margin at least 1 1/2 
inches deep should be left at the top of the page .. 
c. The large block on the right side of FD-350 has space for the insertion 
of the names of more than one newspaper. The names ·of newspapers 
clipped may be overprinted in this space. Placing the page number on 
the line in front of the name of the newspaper will serve to desi~nate 
which paper the clipping is from. The page number may be written in 
longhand. Only the page number on which the article begins should 
be shown. If overprinting is not used, required information other-
than page number should be typed. 
d. [Show whether the matter mentioned is being· investigated.] 
[e.] InserJ staples hori~on~ally at the top and bottom and vertically.at 
the sides of all clippings. Use only a sufficient number of staples 
to hold the clipping securely to the paper. 
• [f.] D? no~ mutilate or mark c~ipping in any manner by underlining or 
circling words or by drawing arrows to direct attention. 
[g.J ~o cover letter needed when submitting clippings unless clarific~tion 
is:required for a particular clipping. This may be handled by routing 
slip, letter, or_ airtel accpmpanying clipping in question. • 
5 
7-26-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 324 
