13-00000 
10/8/1996 America Online: Dick Kovar Page 1 
branch 
responsible for operations In Mexico and Central America. Richard Helms, the CIA 
chief of clandestine serv1ces and later the agency's director, placed Scelso In 
charge of the assassination investigation. Angleton, a counterintelligence 
off1c1al with close t1es to FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover, "1mmed1ately went 
1nto act1on to do all the lnvestlgat1ng," Scelso test1f1ed, crlt1clzlng the 
move sharply. 
"Helms called a meeting at which Angleton and a lot of others were present and 
told everybody that I was 1n charge and that no one should have any 
conversations with anyone about the Kennedy case without my being present -
wh1ch was violated from tl)e word 'go· by Angleton, who dealt w1th the FBI and 
the Warren Commtssion and (Warren Cornmlssion member and former CIA Director 
Aiien) Du lies t,lrr1self .... Angleton ignored Helms· orders. I tried to get Helms 
to make him 0L1ey anli Heims said., 'You 90 teil l)im.'" 
Angleton., wt)o ciied ln l 987., spent much of Ms career searching for consp1rac1es 
- tielievlng tr1at there was a Communist mole In the CIA - and was presumed by 
otner CIA off leers to have tr1ect to press a conspiracy theory on the warren 
Comrnlsslon. Tr,e commlss1on found no ev1dence of a conspiracy. Angleton.was 
flreci 
in 1975. Years later., a mole was found - Aldrich Ames - but he had entered the 
CIA after Angleton·s dismissal. 
At one point 1n the 1978 House testimony_, comm1ttee attorney M1chael Goldsmith 
asked, .. Do you have any reason to believe that Angleton might have had ttes to 
organized crime?" 
"Yes.," repl1ed Scelso, who 1s now ret1red and l1ves abroad, government sources 
sa1d. He said the Just1ce Department once asked the CIA to determ1ne the true 
names of people holding numbered bank accounts 1n Panama because the Maf1a was 
hldtng Las Vegas "skim" money there. "We were In an excellent pos1tton to do 
this and told them so - wt~,ereupon Angleton vetoed it and sa1d, 'That 1s the 
bureau·s (FBl's) tiusiness.' " Scelso said he dtscussed the s1tuat1on with 
anott)er CIA offlcer. "And he smiled a foxy smile and satd, 'Well, that's 
Angleton·s exuJse. Tt,e real reason Is that Angleton himself has ties to the 
Maf1a and he would not 
want to doubie-cross them.' .. 
on another subject, Scelso gave Kennedy consptracy theor1sts a sl1ght ptece of 
