207G 
[ 
SECTIOl'T 107. .URITY Il<FORttA!lTS MID SOURC};S 
{6) After informn~t authenticates his statement, contactiag Agent 
should prepare a cover sheet, form Ji'D-306, which should be stapled 
to it and there~.fter the statement should be handled as a 
written one in accordance with instructions set out in 2, a, 
(10), and (11). 
(7) Oral information furnished by inform~.nt purely of lead value 
should be incorporated in an office memorandum by the Agent 
and should not be initialed by the informant or exhibit(.d to• 
him or treated as evidence. 
3. Transmission of information 
a, Statements should be personally delivered to contacting A5ent by 
informan·bs whenever possible. Careful consideration should be 
given to full security of all such personal contacts. . 
b. They should never be mailed to field office or resident agency. 
c. If they cannot be obtained personally by contacting Agent, obtain 
confidential post office boxes for their receipt. 
d. Confidential post office boxes should be obtained under fictitious 
names and not under names of persons who may be listed in post office 
directory. 
e. More than one informant may send statements to a specific post office 
box; but consideration should be given to obtaining post offioe,boze~ 
in different post office stations to prevent suspicion on part of 
post office employees. 
f. En-velope enclosint statement should have :return address of another 
confidential post office box obtained u::ider a ficti tiou.s nam(',, in the 
same manner as d. 
g. Statements should be colle.cted at post office boxes rc.::,::.larly.i 
but time of pickup should be varied. Work out system 0f rotation 
whereby same Agent or Agents will not appear at same post office box 
for any extended period of time. • • 
• h. When informant receives information of· vital and ir:unediate interest 
to Bureau, he should furnish it as promptly as possible to contacting 
Agent or office by most appropriate means of conm1unication. Office 
should take any necessary action without delay. 
4. Handling of lead information 
a. All lead information obtained from informant must be run out to 
a logical conclusion. 
b. If there is only partial name of individual or meager descriptive 
data, and if there is sufficient data available to do so, file should 
be opened and assigned to effect an identification and to take any 
necessary action. 
o. If there is insufficient information to warrant o~ening ca~e, 
a tickler card should ~e prepared t~ follow with the informant and 
take other logical steps in an effort to obta5n additional identifying 
data concerning the individual. Tickler card3 r.hould be restricted 
to information which would warrant investiga.t.l./. if an identity.is 
established. This will eliminate inconsoquenti~l items, but at the 
same.- time definite steps must be taken to run ou·b affirmative inf'orma­
tion. If no identification is made afte~ reasonable effort, prepare 
memorandum for informant's subfile. If an j_dentifica•cion is ma.de, 
a file should be opened and any necessary action taken in connection 
therewith. 
5. Handling documentary material furnished by informants 
a. Pamphlets ancl similar documentary ma ter:i..: furnished by informants 
should have placed thereon the informant 1 ~ code name. 
b. Informant s~ould affix date he received the matorial. If informant­
cannot recall date of receipt, the date he ·furnished material should 
be affixed. • 
c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, 
permanent symbol number of informant, file numbers, indexi~g symbols 
etc., should ~e placed on documentary material by Agents or clerical 
personnel. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1398 
12 
6-13-61 
-
\ ; 
I 
\ 
