87D • 
l 
SE(,..:. 87 o CECURITY Il·IVESTIGATION. 
Proof that ~he subject has ouch knowledge bf the revolu­
tionary purpo~es ~f the organi~ation may be existent in 
. several for:ns, sevc1·al of which :i.re discussed below:• 
I. Direct admissible evidence, such ys statements made by 
the subject, or by respo~aiblc officials of the subversive 
organization in the subject's presence at organi~atidnal 
classes or meetings expounding the organization's 
IVo 
VIo 
VIIo 
VIII .. 
IX. 
x. 
doctrine in nhich the necessity or advisabiliti of using 
force or violence in the overthrow of the Government 
is asserted, should be obtained, if at all possible. 
Occasionally, statements of this nature arc availab"le in 
the subject's writings, sometimes in an indirec~ or 
veiled formo 
Length of time in a subversive organization 
Ofricial positions held in the organization especially 
in educational, propaganda, or policy-making capacities 
Charter membership in the organization, participation in 
the original establishment of the organization 
Extensive and long-continued participation irr various 
organizational activities 
Attendance or teaching at organization schools or 
classes, especially leadership classes 
Preparation or di5tribution of party propaganda 
Recruiting and fund-raising activities 
Possession of Marxist or revolutionary literature 
Urging others to read literature of a·revolutionary 
character, etc~ • 
While none of the above types of evidence may be of sufficient 
value alone, a combination of a number of them may constitute 
convincing proofo 
It should be remembered that the revolutionary purposes- of 
a subversive organization are frequently cloaked in veiled 
language or in language significant only to persons familiar 
with Marxist or revolutionary terminology. Such obscure 
itatements should not be.ignored, but should be fully reported 
as it may be possible in legal proceedings to bring out the 
s ign.i.f icance of such s ta:tements through expert witness es, 
the testimony of informants, or the introduction of literature 
clarifying them. CQnfidential informants and other sources 
should be carefully interrogat~d and files thoroughly 
reviewed for the- purpose of developing all revolutionary 
statements o In such ins ta nee:;, complete details should be 
ob·tained, together with all corroborating evidenc_e. The 
names of all. persons present when such statements are mn.de 
ihould ~e ascertained and the tacts reported in the individual 
case file of the person mak.int~ the st;vten,ent and of all 
persons pre:;ent when the s tatoment was made. The ci1·cum­
stan~es under which the.statement wms made should 1 of course, 
be ascertaindd and r~portedo 
(c) Po.sition and importance 
I. Informat:ton reflecting the importance of an -i.ndi-v-idual 
to a subversive organization O!' movement should be fully 
developed and reported. The member or affiliate may"be 
dangerous or important because of hid position, influence 
or activities outside the orgaui~ation, or both. The 
facts in th is r•~gar,l ~,hould be fully dcvcJ.l,pe,l. The 
in,llvidual 1:iay hold an lmpoi-tnnt and strategic..: position 
or exercise great influence ln a l~bor organi~ation or 
other m~ss orfani~ntion; in b raolal, nationnlity, iouth 
or othc1· g1·oup; in ::.n important front organh:n.tilin; in 
·radio, n0wspaper, motion pictu~e or other c..:ultural, 
30 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 857 l l-B-5'5 
