13-00000 
~ - Mink. 
REP. MINK: There was no policy in effect in 1959 with 
reference to persons who publicly announced defection to the 
Soviet Union? 
GATES: I just don't know. 
REP. MINK: Has there been any inquiry made within the 
agency to determine that i4-month lapse? 
GATES: I don't believe so. 
GREASE: We did attempt to contact people who might 
have been involved at the time, and that largely failed, and in 
addition, we gained no information. We don't know. 
REP. MINK: Now, I don't know the basis of this 
conclusion in the news prticle, but it indicates that the 
materials that· were turned over to the National Archives, .did 
not indicate that they were originals, unexpurgated originals, 
as the article says, that the materials turned over had been 
altered, revised, in some way by the CIA before they were 
released to the archives. Is that a true statement? 
GREASE: It is not correct to say that they were 
altered or revised. Our effort was to furnish the file that we 
had. That file contained copies of original documents. 
Therefore· we thought it appropriate to furnish precisely what we 
had. 
What might be characterized as alterations by some by 
us are redactions of the kind of material that Director Gates 
has described to you, meaning some numbers, some names, out I 
can assure. you, nothing of any consequence. 
These are Privacy Act considerations and things of 
that nature. 
REP. MINK: Mr. Gates, one finai question: In y9ur 
testimony you indicated that you did not support vesting in an 
outside body the determination of whether CIA materials related 
to the assassination can be released to the public, and to agree 
to that would be inconsistent with your statutory 
responsibility. • ,., 
I take it, then, that you oppose the provisions in 
this bill which call for such vesting in an outside body? 
-GREASE: Frankly, my own view is that the provisions 
that provide that the president can have the final say, normally 
I would not shift to the president my burden for protecting 
sources and methods. But it seems to me that, given the unique 
circumstances of this case, it seem~ to me that that is one part 
of the bill that we could find a way to work around. 
REP. MINK: Then is it not somewhat inconsistent in 
your testimony in saying that if this bill didn't pass and 
didn't become law, you would appoint a panel of distinguished 
Americans from outside the government to do the exact same 
function for your agency? 
/5 
