13-00000 
Political Assassinations in the United States 
Articles Published in Computers and Automation May 1970 to October 1973 
Inventory of Titles, Authors, and Summaries 
, ., 
May 1970 
~----~·The Assassination of President John F. Kennedy: 
The Application of Computen to the Photographic 
Evidence 
by Richard E. Sprague 
A reexamination of some of the evidence relating 
to the assassination of John F. Kennedy - with 
emphasis on the possibilities and problems of 
computerized analysis of the photographic evi­
dence. 
July 1970 
29 The May Article, "The Assassination of President 
John F. Kennedy: The Application of Computen to 
the Photographic Evidence" - Report No. 2: 
32 More About Jim Hicks 
32 Confirmation of FBI Knowledge 12 Days Before 
Dallas of a Plot to Kill President Kennedy 
35 The Second Conspiracy About the Assassination 
of President Kennedy 
August 1970 
48 The Assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennady: 
48 Preface, by Edmund C. Berkeley 
50 Two Men With Guns Drawn at Senator Kennedy's 
Assassination: Statement to the Press, by Theo­
dore Charach 
50 Map of the Scene of the Assassination of Senator 
Robert Kennedy 
51 The Pantry Where Senator Robert Kennedy was 
Assassinated 
52 Bullet Hole in the Frame of a Door 
53 Two Bullet Holes in the Center Divider of the 
Pantry Door 
September 1970 
39 Patterns of Political Assassination: How Many Coin­
cidences Make a Plot? 
by Edmund C. B~rkeley, Editor, Computers and 
Automation 
How the science of probability and statistics can 
be used as an instrument of decision to determine 
if a rare event is: (I) within a reasonable range; 
(2) unusual or strange or suspicious; or (3) the re­
sult of correlation or cause or conspiracy. 
48 Computer-Assisted Analysis of Evidence Regarding 
....... - . -· 
Progress Report 
by Richard E. Sprague 
October 1970 
52 The Conspiracy to Assassinate Senator Robert ·F. 
Kennedy and the Second Conspiracy to Cover It Up 
by Richard E. Sprague 
A sumr:nary of what researchers are uncovering in 
their investigation of what appears to be not one 
but two conspiracies relating to the assassination 
of Senator Robert F. Kennedy. 
56 Index to "Special Unit Senator: The Investigation of 
the Assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy" 
An index is supplied for the Random House book 
written by Robert A. Houghton, of the Los 
Angeles Police Department, about the investigation 
of the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy. 
November 1970 
44 Confidential and Secret Documents of the Warren 
Commission Deposited in the U.S. Archives 
by Neil Macdonald, Assistant Editor 
A list of the subjects of over 200 documents of 
the Warren Commission which were classified con­
fidential, secret, and top secret. 
~cember 1970 
39 The Assassination of Reverend Martin Luther King, 
Jr .. The Role of James Earl Ray, and the Question 
of Conspiracy 
by Richard E. Sprague 
James Earl Ray says he was coerced into entering 
a plea of guilty to killing Martin Luther King ... 
and contrary evidence (plus other evidence) have 
led to filing of legal petitions for relief. 
January 1971 
45 The Death of Walter Reuther: Accidental or Planned? 
by Edmund C. Berkeley and Leonard Walden 
Some significant questions about the plane crash 
in May 1970 in which Walter Reuther was killed. 
February 1971 
48 The Report of the National Committee to Investigate 
Assassinations 
by Bernard Fensterwald, James Lesar, and Robert 
~ 
