( A. 
( 
-
PART II 
-SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLI.C CONTACTS 
PRESS RELEASES 
Employees are forbidden to furnish to the press either directly or indirectly 
any information concerning Bureau matters without prior authorization from the 
Bureau except in following instances. (Bureau in turn must obtain departmental· 
clearance as set forth in Departmental Order 2460.) . 
1. Bureau authority is granted for SACs to make releases on purely routine 
cases, l.ocal in nature, not involving other field divisions, national 
policy, national interest, other Federal agencies, state, county, or 
municipal employees, or persons of prominence whose names would be 
newsworthy in themselves, and where arrests have been made with the 
authorization of the USA in the following classifications. The Bureau 
is to be advised that such releases have been made. 
a. Routine cases in which complaints have been filed 
b. Selective Service cases, except wh_en draft boards are involved 
c. Interstate transportation of stolen motor vehicle, except when wide­
spread rings are involved 
d •. White Slave Traffic Act 
e. Des·e-rter cases.,·· except charges· growing out of the harboring of 
f. 
g. 
h. 
deserters 
Illegal wearing of uniform 
Impersonation 
National Firearms Act 
io Federal Firearms Act 
Extortion 
Red Cross Act 
Theft from interstate shipment. 
mo May Act 
no Patent matters 
o. Copyright matters 
po Federal Rese~ve Act 
qo Mail fraud 
ro Falsely claiming citizenship 
s 0 Illegal manufacture, possession, or wearing of civil defense insignia 
t., Illegal manufacture., sale, or use of military cremation urn 
Uo Crimes on the high seas 
Vo National Bankruptcy Act 
w. Theft, embezzlement, robbery, iliegal possession of, or destruction of 
Government property 
Xo Crimes on Indian reservation 
y •. Crimes on Government reservation 
Zo Bills of Lading Act 
aa 0 False entries in records of interstate carriers 
ab. Illegal use of a railroad pass 
ac 0 Interstate transportation of gambling devices 
ad. ·Interstate transportation of lottery tickets 
ae 0 Interstate transportation of obscene matter 
af. Escaped Federal prisoner, escape and rescue, parole violatpr or 
coniitional release violator or probation violator 
ag. Interstate transportation of stolen property 
ah. Unlawful flight to avoid prosecution, unlawful flight to a.void 
confinement, unlawful flight to avoid giving testimony (Bureau still 
ai. 
a j • 
ak. 
to be promptly advised) 
Bank robbery 
Interstate transportation of stolen cattle 
Migratory Game Bird Act 
1 
6-30-58 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 308 
