[ 
107I - K SECTION 107·. 
2. Communications - use of symbols 
a. After Bureau is ad-vised of the permanent symbol, in subsequent 
communications true name of informant should not be set forth; use 
symbol number. 
b. In all communications after the initial l~tter, Bureau and field 
office file numbers for informant must be set forth. 
o. In conununications between offices, the same procedure is to be 
followed. 
d. Inforr:1ants and sources en·l;ering another division 
(1) .Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis for Bureau business or for personal reasons 
should be referred to in initial letter to interested office 
by true name and symbol number if it is necessary for the other 
division to know the identity of the informant. Office receiving 
such letter should make appropriate index cards and place same 
·in "Informants and Sources in Other Di-risions" index. Subsequent 
letters between interested offices may then identify i.ndi vi dual 
by symbol :qumber only. 
(2) Individuals who leave the division where they have been furnishing 
information and do not ulan to return should be immediately 
discontinued, thei.r symbol number, if any, should be eancelled, 
and their true name should be used in all administrative 
correspondence. 
(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and remains 
active, his idantity must still be protected. 
• e. In communications, the teletype abbreviation for the field office, 
symbol, and letter suffix 11S11 shall be shown to identify the informant; 
e. g, , "NY 000-S." 
f. In conmmnications concerning a poten·l;ial security informant, the 
name of the potential security informant and abbreviation upsr 11 
shall be used; e.g., "John Doe, PSI." 
g, Similarly, in con:munica·tions rclati ve to confidential sources, the 
abbreviation "CS" should be used; e.g., 11Richard Roe, CS, 11 
h. When symbol numbers are assigned to potential security informants, 
the desi;:rnation should be as follows: 111.A 000-PSI. 11 
i. In communications relative to a confidential source having a permanen:li 
symbol number, the following should be used: 11CS 1.A 000-S." 
j. In espionage and foreign nationality matters the caption of the 
communication should show in addition a character and the country 
designation (i.e., IS - R for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.). 
This facilitates routing the mail at the Bureau, 
j. nrnEXDTG 
1. 
2. 
True names and aliases of ·all informants, as well as the coYer name 
assigned to them for informants' use in submitting their statements, 
but not their perm::ment Bureau symbol numbers, shall be indexed in 
the general office indices in the same manner as any other name. 
These index cards should show the file number of the informant and 
such terms· as 11Informant 11 or "Potential Securi t7 Informanttt shall not 
appc.ar .. 
IC. Il'TDICES 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol number·index 
a. .Al-ohabetical nmne index 
. (1) In all offices all active potential security and security 
inform~~t cards are to be kept by the SAC, ASAC, or security 
supervisor consi.stent with maximum security and best admin­
istrative practice, This is to be known as the alphabetical 
name index. 
(~) rile these cards in alphabetical order and also include cards 
for security confidential sources. These cards should show 
whether the individual is a potential i.nforman+,, an informant, 
or· a confidential source furnishing in.format.ion on security 
matters. 
14 
5-12-61 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1401 
\ 
J 
) 
