( 
( 
( 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
120 
13. 
14. 
SECTION 107. ·C~ITY INFORMANTS .AND CONFIDEN,.AL SOURCES 
Instruct each intere·sted Bureau office which has made further dis­
semination of suoh information to follow the instructions set f~rth 
above. . 
107S - U 
Also set up a control file regarding this corrective action, and upon 
completion· of same submit' to the Bureau a final letter under the in­
formant Is caption identifying eaoh case by title, character, Bureau file, 
where kno·wn, and date of communication. 
This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files to see 
that necessary corrective action has been taken in each inst.ance 0 
If necessary, other field offices which h2.ve received information from 
the informan·I; should al so be requested to submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been made. 
It is imperative that all information from the informant be correctly 
labeled and great oare must be taken to see tha-t this is done. 
Occasionally, an ex-informant through his sp-eech, writings, or actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of 
the information attributed to that individual in ·the absence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the· Bureau while he was an informant. 
Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unrelia bi-li ty should be made in accordance with pa:rt II, 
se·c-tion ·s,· of the Manual 'of RU:le·s and 'Regulati·ons .• 
T, CLASSIFICATION - 134 
CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1, Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved, . 
b, Advise Bureau by letter giving name, addr~ss, business a£filiatfon, 
• symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furni~hed, 
c. The abbreviation "CS" may be used in intra-Bureau communications 
for confidential source. Communications relating to espionage and 
foreign nationality matters should in addition have a character 
indicating the country involved; e.g., IS - R for Russia, 
d. When a permanent symbol has been ·assigned to a confidential source-, 
the abbreviation "CS" is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS NY-000-S. . 
e. Symbol numbers assigned to conf·idential sources are to be taken from­
the series of-symbol numbers used for your security and criminal 
informants. 
3. Index 
a. Index cards [ on form FD-348] like those prepared for informan·l;s mu;·' 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant inde 
or the security informant index, depending on the tyP.e of informat~ .. n furnished. -- ·- -- ~ • • • • . .. • • 
b. The symbol index-is handled similarly to the symbol index on inform­
ants. • 
c .. Duplicate· confidel).tial source cards may be maintained with the 
orimin,al informant index and the security informant. index. .i..f' the 
source furnishes information of value in both types of investiga­
tions. 
4. Files 
Wp.en acti -ve investigation i.s initiated relative to an individual wr.-., 
has potential as a security confidential source, a L34 classificat_ 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until~? 
to develop the individual are discontinued. The same prooedur£· f;t::,..:_d 
he followed concerning racial confidential sources, the classification 
being 137. Files may be opened on confiden,ial sources in criminal 
matters in a manner identical with that for handling criminal informant 
files in the discretion of the SAC. • 
1 ~w 38321 Docld:32989529 1557 
27 
5-:-18-62 
