-107C-D . SECTION 107 •• CURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFIDJ .AL SOURCES. 
I 
3. Inquiries· of discroet·nature concerning individual's personal history 
(date and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, health, reliability, c· 
stability, integ!'ity, general reputation, present and past employments, 
and business conn~ctions. Investigation must definitely establish that 
individu~l can be used without danger of future embarrassment due 
to inst:-.bility or unreliability. Securing background information from 
indi-.idual is not sufficient; his background must be es·tablish~Hl by 
investigation, including discreet inquiries among persons personally 
acquainted with him. 
4. Check local arrest records9 Submit FD-165 to Identification Division to 
obt<'.in a,ny record he may have and to place stop against fingerprints _if 
on file. In order to eliminate the possibility of jeopardizing the security 
of Bureau informants, the word "Informant" should not be indicated in • 
blank ballot box on FD-1650 It should be noted the informant file number 
serves as an indication to the Identification Division of the ~ype of 
flash notice desired. · • 
5. Review armed services record if applicable. [FD-356 must be used in any 
routine check pertaining to informants making sure all references, such 
as symbol number·, which would tend to identify individual as an 
informant are deleted.] • . 
6. Check draft status or status in armed forces reserveo 
7. Check domestic status and, if any marl tal difficulties 1 obtain details. 
8. Persons being considered for use in espionage and foreign nationality 
cases may present special problems which limit scope of investigationo 
(See instructions re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, 
volume IV, of this manual.) However, where'practical, cover above itemso 
Leads must be handled by auxiliary offices within 30 day~ o "Investigation 
must be completed prior to any request to guide, direct, or designate in­
dividual as potential security informanto 
D.. APPROVAL, IMDOCTRDTATION, AND DEVELOPMENT OF POTEI-TTIAL INFORMA.NTS 
1. When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same 
numerical sequence set out in subsection C, and request authority to des­
ignate indi -vidual as Bureau-appro-ved potential security informant and to 
proceed with development. Submit by secure teletype (usually Nitel). 
Be brief aµd concise. Do not submit on UACB basis. Include physical 
description. 
a. !f .the indiYidual is a student, include separate paragraph clearly 
setting forth the number of extremist and/or security informants, 
the nu.~ber of potential extremist and/or potential security in­
formants, and the number of panel sources currently being operated at 
the pa:?:"ticular college or university to which the request pert"'-ins .. 
2. After designation as Bureau-approved po-bential security informant, fol­
lowing matters should be made clear to him: 
a. His assistance is strictly voluntary and he is to understand there is 
no coercion or intimidation involved. 
b. He is ::iot and cannot consider himself employee or "undercover Agent" 
of FBI. Seriousness of violating impersonation statutes must be 
impressed upon him. 
c. His cooperation must be strictly confidential at all times and if 
he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so 
advise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informant 
that his relationship must remain on confidential basis and" if he 
violates confidence he will be of no value and by so doing Bureau's 
investigative activity may be jeopardized. If he has special 
problem which would require revealing his assistance to his wife or 
other pertinent individual, this should be ascertained and appropriate 
reco!!4T.endation made to Bureau. 
d. If potential informant is connected in any manner with labor union, 
inform him that Bureau is not interested in employer-employee relation­
ships as such and is only concerned with obtaining information on 
infiltration of unions by subversive elements. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1130 
