NW 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
87D 
{ : \ 
-' I 
SE'"'""T01f 87. SECURITY DIVESTIG.!TIO: 
'-~,/.. . 
Phys~aA_ description 
Ia Obtain and report a detailed physical description. 
II., During the course of the initial investigation in any 
security-type ca.s e, including espionage and na.tio na.lis tic 
tenciency cases, the physical characteristics and descrip­
tion of the subject shall be determined or verified by 
personal obse~vation. It is not necessary to observe 
personally the subject of any case where preliminary 
investigation determines the basis for opening ~he 
case is unfounded~ 
III. The subject should be personally observe~, if possible,· 
early in the inYestigat:i.on ?.fter it is determined that 
a. complete inves t:i.gati•cn is warranted to develop the 
extent of a subject's subversive activities and to 
consider whether the subject's name should be added to 
th·e security index. This action should be taken in the 
course of developing background information to determine 
·the true identity and existence of the subject and to 
assist in establishing that the subject of the investi-
gation is the person again:.-: whom the subversive • 
allegations .ha-ve b~en _made~ Each subject s·hould be 
personally observed whenever a complete security investi­
gation is conducted even though a security index card 
is not being recommended at the completion of the 
investigation. 
IV. Do npt delay the submission of form FD-122 recoffimending 
the addition of a subjectts name to the security index 
...,. even though it has not been possible to observe personally 
the subject if it has been determined. through in-vestigation 
that the subject is dan_gerous or potentially dangerous• 
v. If a securi·liy index card is not being recommended after 
al~ logical investigation has been conducted and it has 
not been possible to observe personally the subject during 
the investigation, the case may be closed even though 
this h:1:; not been done., If a •;ecurity index c.:·.rd has 
been ;··;::----:n1ended and prepared :;ltd it h:-,.s not ·=··'D-n possib.te 
to pe::·.: • ·, lly observe the subj ,:~t, the ·--.:.s e :: ;~. 1.1 remain 
open n: •. ). such time as the subject is 1;c:!:'so:·:·.--ly observed, 
except 3n it has been determined that the subject 
is r"es:i.c:.ing ou:} .. :.de the U. S. or Puerto Rico, in vrhich 
event tho· ca.se :·.t,.J be clos·ed if there is no· other 
pending investi,:-."tion and the matter should be follo1·red 
administrativel· to be certain that the subject is 
personally observed upon his,return to this country. 
Photc,{raph 
• I. :1.:asonable efforts should be made c'-'.1ring the inv~stigation 
o:i:' a security subject to ob·tain a photograph of the 
subject thrvi~gh usual sources. 
IIo Cases on security index subjects are t~ be maintained 
in a pending status until such time aa a s~itable 
photograph is obtained unles·s ciJ;"oums b.nce s dictate 
otherwise, in which case the Bureau sh;:-uld be ad-vi ~ed. 
Once a photograph has been obtained, continue to be . 
alert :fo1~ the existence of more recent photographs w1-~cc-h 
may become available. 
III. Do no~ forward a copy of the photograph io the BureRu 
unless the subject has b6cn designated a[top functionary.) 
28 
;:-'-5-68 
Docld:32989529 Page 421: 
