x:. 
( 
( 
~ .--~ 
SECTION 107. SECUiUTY INFORMANTS .A.ND CONFl.l'TI.A.L SOURCES. 107K 
INFO RY.A.1TT FILES 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
s. 
Onening 
a: When active in-,rcstigation is initiated regarding potential informant 
or confidential source who is not subject of security-type file, 
open 134 file. . 
b. If individual is subject of security case and after being interviewed 
appears to have potential as informant, open separate 134 file to 
follow informant development. In espionage and foreign nationality 
matters, existing file may be used if this is practical. 
c. Maintain individual files on all active informants as pending active· 
files. 
Monthly administrative report 
Include files on potential informants and informants in tabulations and 
calculations of delinquencies in monthly administrative report . 
.A.ssignment and tickler cards 
Maintain assignment and tickler cards, but do not show true name of 
informant,[potential informant, panel source or confidential source] 
on such cards. 
Subfiles 
a. Subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written 
or -oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where 
subfile is necessary only in those instances involving possible 
prosecution. File in this subfile original of each statement, 
whether personally vrritten by informant or furnished orally and 
redu~ed to writing by contacting Agent. Staple executed form FD-306 
or channelizing memorandum containint all applicable items on form 
FD-306 to original of each such statement. 
b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any 
portion of statements or notations thereon. 
Channelization , 
Include excerpts from informant's statement in regular investigative-
case report when infor~~tion of value is submitted. Form FD-306 may be 
used to dissem.i..nate this information to case f.ile in lieu of channelizing 
memorandum if desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed ~or 
channelization and staple one copy to each copy of' informant's state-
ment being channelized. Channelization should be noted on original 
-FD-306 and all conies. • 
_Channelizing memoranda - destruction of 
See M~nual of Rnles and Regulations. 
Corre s ponde nee 
Correspondence in security infor~Ant and potential security informant 
matters should be strictly limited to administrative handling of informant 
and should not contain information more properly furnished under sub­
stantive case caption. 
Ma.inte na.nce of files 
a. Y.L3.-intain all symbol number informant files, pending and closed, 
under lock and key under personal super.vision of S.A.C, ASAC, field 
supervisor, or responsible employee designated by SAC. 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in open 
files section, provided there is no disclosure of informant's 
identity on statements. 
c. Maintain informant files so that all information furnished by in­
formant will be immediately a-vailable when needed. 
d. In addition, maintain these files so identities of cases in which an 
i~formant has furnished competent evidence can be obtained immediately by 
simply referring to file of informant and without extensive research: 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1220 13 
6-14-71 
! ! ' I 
, i 
i 
-I 
! 
I 
·I 
I 
1 
I r 
! I 
i 
i 
! 
I I 
