:r 
;1. 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
·-· 
-SECRET 
EYES ONLY 
28 February 1963 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 28 February 1963 
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and Mr. McCone 
Colonel Steakley was present for Ite~s 1-3 
1. ,,[Reco~na:i.ssan~~ ~ DOD Mon!'i.~Y Forecast 
( .:.~::~ , 
The Group had no objection to the BOW TIE missions as planned. 
Mr .. McCone alluded, however, to- the unexplained military activity 
that is going on in eastern China, and asked about the capability of 
BOW TIE to check on this. It was~pointed out that the BOW TIE 
program consists of comparatively shallow penetration which would . 
probably not reach the kind of military target Mr. McCone had in mind. , '. 
Accordingly, Colonel Steakley was asked to confer with COMOR to find ' 
out whether requirements exist for deeper penetration in the area, 
and if so to bring in an appropriate proposal to the Special-Group. 
In connection with project AMOS, Mr. Johnson read a message from 
Lord Home to the Secretary of St.ate. Home said that while the RAF 
and the Air Ministry will be glad to have the advantage of the 
intelligence resulting from the mission, nonetheless this represents 
a departure ·from the previous pattern of flights in the area. 
Additionally, the flight will, according to Home, go closer'to the 
coast than the RAF is allowed to go. He was willing to agree to the 
mission, provided it was not viewed as establishing a precedent, and 
on the.stipulation that Secretary Rusk personally accepts the risk 
entailed. Mr. Johnson said that Secretary Rusk is willing to accept 
this risk. • 
The Group approved AMOS, subject to check by Mr. Bundy with 
higher authority, and on the understanding that the Group will have 
a chance to take a last look at it shortly before the scheduled date 
of 19 March. Colonel Steakley was also asked to report to the Group 
on the results of the mission. (This mission was later approved by 
higher authority.) 
In this connection, Mr. McCone commented on the great importance· 
of obtaining intelligence on the Soviet low-level SA-3 system. The 
Group agreed that thisis a high-priority requirement, in order to_J 
