\ j 
Al4 THURSbiY, A 
.. 
O!it 
AN INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPJR 
0 Ile elli?· 
E'RE GOING TO tell you a little story now. amount to a system of justice which 1) only affects 
Once there was a President who was murdered. those dumb enough to get involved in it in the first 
His brother was murdered too. A long time after they place and 2) tends only to punish those who have 
died some very strange facts came to light. It turned committed what the rest of us would regard as hei-
out that while they were running the government, nous crimes anyway. Not that these are things people 
the government was trying to get two Mafia mobsters . say-they're things people .can be expected to as­
to arrange the murder of someone else-:..-the head of • sume. But we think in this case the assumptions have 
a small, hostile neighbor state. It also turned out that even less validity than they would have on a clear 
one brother-the one who was President-appar- day, which isn't much. And that is because if we 
ently had a girlfriend who was the girlfriend as well know anything, we know that the Mafia operations in 
of the mobsters. And ooo of the mobsters, whose which Messers. Giancana and Roselli figured had be­
nickname was Momo, was prominent on the list of come intertwined with the operations of the United 
crimil'lals the President's brother was trying to put in • States government. Never mind that the decisions of 
jail. The story may sound complicated, but Uf e is com- the early 1960s which made this so may rank among 
plicated, a.;:id the complications in this case got even the most abominable decisions ever taken in the U.S. 
more so. For when a committee of the Congress government. The plain fact is that, given the provoca­
wanted the two mobsters to come and tell them some- tive and suggestive history of the two men, it is not 
thing about . all this, only one of them-the one possible for either Congress or the Executive Branch 
named Johnny- came. The other one, Momo, was to look the other way or to complaisantly accept the 
murdered in his house a week. before they wanted earmarks-of-a-gangland-slaying bromide. 
him to testify. Johnny, however, told his story to one 
committee in the Congress and then came back-qui- After Mr. Giancana was killed, the Church Commit-
etly-to tell some more things to another committee tee inquired of the FBI whether its proposed meeting 
which was in fact looking into the murder of the with him had figured in his murder. The FBI re- . 
President. Then Johnny went to Florida. Then no one. ported that it had no evidence to this effect. The 
could find him. Then some fishermen found him ... then-director of the CIA, William Colby, felt obliged 
Dead. In an oil drum. • • to state that the CIA had .. had nothing to do with the. 
But we haven't told you the strangest part of all murder-and Mr. • Colby likewise pronounced the 
yet, the part you're really not going to believe. It is other day that he was certain the CIA had not done in 
that when the great national political community of Mr. Roselli. The mere fact that the questions, to 
solons, scribes, policemen, spies and managers of the which these were meant to be the answers, had been 
general· wellbeing heard about poor Johnny, they raised tells us, anyway, that much more in the way of 
said: "Oh, my goodness.t' Some of them went farther, inquiry is wanted. The newly formed Senate Select 
of course. They said: "Fancy that!" But most of them Committee on Intelligence has now asked the Justice 
didn't say anything at all except: "Yawn;'' Department to make an investigation of Mr. Roselli's 
Forgive us for lapsing into storybookese. We do it death. We think the Department should comply and 
for a reason which is that the simple unadorned facts that the investigation, despite FBI Director Clarence 
of the John and Robert Kennedy-Fidel Castro-CIA-. Kelley's .disclaimer of jurisdiction, should have the 
l\1afia-Momo Giancana-Johnny Roselli-Judith Exner- .: Attorney General's personal aftention. Such atten­
Church Committee-Schweiker Committee saga need "tion is needed because of the elaborate and not en­
to be pl.it forward in stark outline for their magni- tirely reassuring history of relationships between the • 
tude to be understood. Is it really, as the sophisticated FBI and the CIA and the various participants in the 
wisdom goes, "paranoid" on our part to brood about · whole sorry saga. We are not. suggesting' that any 
the suggestive and possibly monstrou~ interconnec- agency of government-or even any of those agen-
t ions between all these facts and to wonder why they cy's fringe retainers -were the murderers. We are 
are not ~he object of intense press and government suggesting that there is an overlay of potentially em-
. scrutiny? What accounts for the general indifference barrassing information sufficiently pervasive to keep 
in high places? What accounts for the.eagerness with an awful lot of people from wanting to have this 
which we all seem to acc::ept that familiar tipoff that thing aired. We also think that the Select Committee 
we shall be hearing no more about the latest crime- should reserve the right to pursue the matter. (:on- ; .. - ... 
i.e., the pronouncement that Mr. Roselli's dispatch to gress, after all. can hardly be expected to sit idly by 
an oil drum and Beyond had "all the earmarks of a while its witnesses are being done in. Nor do we see . • 1 
~angland slaying." Those are the good · old "ear-_ how the public in general and the political establish-_:. : 
marks" we only hear about when it is next to. certain,. , ment in particular can turn their attention away un-.°;}f; 
that we shall hear nothing more. • ' • : • • • · ti! we are an satisfied that a much greater effort bas • 
The supposition of course is that the Gang which been made by the government-which means both 
runs gangland has its reasons and its methods and the Executive Branch and the Congress-to discover 
that, disagreeable as these may be, they really lie out- what elements were at play in this series of appalling 
_ ·'·.:. side the proper realm of public ~o_nc!r_~ __ b:.:e::.:c=au=s::e:..:t:::h~ey::.._,...· ..:c;:ri:;.:.m.:.:e;:s;:a::.n:d.:sc::a::.n::d::a.:.:ls~; ~----------------
r 
e ata - rom 
-· -· 
Docid.:32423630 Page 118 
