3. In lieu of a specific annual appropriation act for the Agency. 
0MB by lette_r notifies the chairmen of the two appropriations co:nmittees 
that the Agency budget of a specific number of dollars is contained in the 
DOD appropriation request. The letter also specifies the accounts in which 
• these funds are located. In_ the past where there were appropriations to the 
Reserve. that letter .would specify the amount of the· operatin·g budget· and 
the amount to be applied to the Reserve. After committee action, appropriate 
letters, sometimes separately and sometimes jointly signed by the chairmen 
of the two committees. are sent to 0MB specifying what has been approved 
for the Agency budget and confirming the accounts in which they are located. 
Thereafter, the necessary transfers to the Age·ncy are accomplished pursuant 
• to the.authority of Section 5 of the GIA Act of 1949, which was specificaily 
worded so as to permit appropriations for the Agency to be placed in the 
accounts of other agencies and then transferred to the Agency free of all 
limitations and restrictions on the appropriation from which transferred. 
The effect of this was to perrriit_those funds to be expended under the authori­
ties of the CIA Act of 1949, n.ther than the authorities of the appropriation 
acts from 'which transferred. A transfer under other· authority such as the 
Economy_ Act would require that the funds be spent i.n accordance with 
-limitations of the appropriation from which transferred, both as to purpose 
and annuality. Unlike any other agency, our "appropriation act" is the 
process described above and consists of the following principal elements: 
a. the OM:i3 letter; 
b. the chairmen letters; 
c:. the DOD appropriations act approved by the whole 
Congress and signed by the President; and 
. d. the transfers to the Agency approved by Ol\·fB and 
authorized by Se.ction 5 of the CIA Act of 1949. 
4. The question then arises· whether a :return of money from a 
previously established proprietary can be placed in the Reserve and 
later expended by the Agency under the law. There are several provisions 
of law based on Article I, Section 9 of the Constimtion, which states that 11no 
• money may be drawn from the Treasury, but in oo,nsequence of appropriations 
made by law, 11 Twenty years after the Constitution was ratified, the act 
from which present law derives v1as enacted. Tkl:t law 'is section 628 of 
Title 31 of the U. S, Code which states: 
Except as otherwise provided by lae,. sums appropriated 
for the various branch-:!s of expenditure im the public servlce shall 
Ec
r n /':'.',. be; app~ie? solely to the objects for ,vhich a.lhiey are respectively made. 
R _ ;t. ·/. -·. and ·for no other~. 
JUN 30 l!=H5. 
2 
. NW· ~0955 • Do.cid: 32423532 . Page 218 
