• 
May 19, 1975 
20 Cozzolino Drive 
Millbrae, CA 94030 
Mr. Lester B. Seidel 
Investigator 
Select Committee to Study 
Government Operations with 
Respect to Intelligence Activities 
Room 2308 
Building 302 - Pirkson Building 
Washington, DC 2051.0 
Dear ?-l?:. Seidel: 
Reference is made to your telephone call to me on May 16, 
1975, in i;,hich you advised tha.t the Committee was gathering 
facts ooncernir.~ the FBI's various CointelPros and in 
pa~ticular, you were looking into the CointelPro having 
to do with the Black Panthers. You inquired if I recalled a 
letter, which had been made public, dated May 11, 1970, from 
the Director, FBI, to the SAC, San Francisco, which suggested 
disruptive techniqu~s against the Black Panthors and which 
mentioned spurious police or FBI reports. I advised you I 
had no first hand recollection of having seen such a document 
at that time, but that I had read a recent newo item describ­
ing such a document. 
You ~lso indicated an interest in the theoretical question as 
to whether intclligenca functions should be divorced from 
enforcomont functions in order to avoid the dilemma of dis­
cl◊sure versus dismissal, an~ you suggested that my views on 
this might be helpful in aducating the Committee. 
Fo~ your information, I entered on duty as a Special Agent on 
January 5, 1912, and retired from the Bureau on December 3, 
1971. During the two years im.~ediately preceding my retirement 
I served as supervisor of a squad of agents which investigated, 
among other matters, violations and alleged violations of law 
by the Black Panthers. The only information I have concerning 
th~ Black Panthers was learned as a direct result of my official 
duties. I have made no independent study of them, nor do I 
have any personal files or written ma·terial, either official 
or otherwise, relating to them. 
Since sp0aking with you, I have reviewed ~:-c~~)l:t.:i.:v_c _Or,de:i; i~SOl-73 
(28 c.F.R.§§ 16.21, 16.22 and 16.23) which specifies that no 
employee or forme~ employee of the Department of Justice shall 
produce any material contained in the files of the D~partment 
:--• r_~ ,=r:1 'J, 
f 
// ' .. 
