( 
• SECT~ON 107. SECURlTY INFORMANTS AND C0NFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 
Q.. CORRECTIVE ACTION ON FALS.E Il'-i"FORMATION 
1. When it is determined that informant or ex-informant furnishe·d false informa­
tion while informant, promptly advise Bureau of complete facts. 
2. Se·l; forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in des_cribing 
informant in future, such as: "informant of known unreliability" or 
"inf'ormant who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information in 
the past." 
3. Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with review of 
all data furnished by inclividual and label information f:r-om him accordingly. 
4. All communications containing information from informant which have been 
·dis•seminated to Bureau, other Bureau of£:ice s, and to outside agencies 
must be corrected. 
5. Identify cases individually by title and character, together with dates 
of communications' containing i:ri.formation. 
6. If information was used in reports, corrective letters should. be crystal 
clear and refer to specific report,·page number, and change· to be made. 
7. Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by Bureau in 
accordance with part II, section 4, of Yia.nual of Rules an'd Regulations. 
Corrective action should be called to attention of other Bureau offices, 
outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
8. Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further dissemina­
tion of information to follow instructions set forth above. 
9. Set up control file regarding this corrective action, and upon completion 
of same submit to Bureau final letter under informant's caption identifying 
each case by title, character, Bureau file, where known, and date of com­
munication. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files 
to see that necessary corrective action has been taken. 
10. If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
informant should a.ls o be requested to submit summary letters showing what 
corrections have been made. 
11. All information from informant must be correctly labeled and great care 
must be taken to see that this is done. 
12. Occasionally, ex-inforrna.nt through his speech, writings, or actions .raises 
a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to time he was informant. It 
is not necessary to go back and change evaluation of information attributed 
to that individual in absence of definite indication that inforw~nt furnished 
unreliable information while he was informant. 
13. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability ~nd 
known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, section 5, 
Yenual of Rules and Regulations. 
R. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assitnment of symbols 
a. A symbol nQmber should be assigned from the time any step is taken 
to develop an individual as a confidential source. 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, add.ress, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning symbol number, and brief state­
ment concerning type of information furnishedo 
c. Abbreviation 11CS11 may be used_ in intra-Bureau communications for· 
confidential source; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS." Communications relating 
to espionage and foreign nationality matters should in addition 
have a character indicating country involved; e.g., IS - R. 
d. When permanent symbol has been assigned to confidential source, 
abbreviation 11GS" is to,appear before symbol number; e.g., cs NY 000-S. 
e. Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from series 
of numbers used for security, extremist, and criminal informants. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1755 
21 
10-13-71 
