13-00000 
/ 
- 2 -
"~ qf; • : .provide a basis for estimating accurately the chances for successful 
ow-level penetration of the USSR. Mr. McCone will arrange _to have 
a USIB paper prepared on this subject. 
The Group noted the DESOTO destroyer voyage, which will now in­
clude a courtesy call at Djakarta. 
Colonel Steakley told the Group that CINCLANT has tried out the 
MELON PATCH photography missions, operating under the ten mile re­
striction which was laid oh by the Special Group at its meeting of 
31 January. It is now apparent to CINCLANT that adequate photography 
of the desired areas cannot be obtained at that distance. The Group 
agreed that the ten mile restriction should remain in force. In 
coming to this conclusion they made the point that in case of real 
need for this type.of coastal intelligence, there would be adequate 
time to obtain it after an emergency actually was in effect; and 
further, any such information collected now would have to be up-dated 
before operations could be mounted based on it. 
,' 
I 
The revised RED DOG missions, to be flown in C-47 1 s, and the ii 
proposal to fly some BRASS KNOB missions from the Canal Zone, were 
approved. 
Colonel Steakley was asked to give the Group a report on the 
1
1 
results obtained from the last mission into the Sea of Okhotsk. 
Colonel Steakley told the Group that the JCS will make no 
recommendation on low-level coverage of Laos (ABLE MABEL) until after 
the results of the Agency ef_fort explained below. 
The Group made a point of saying that although the time is not 
now propitious for covering the COMOR priority targets in Cuba with 
low-level flights, it may well prove desirable to do this on fairly 
short notice. Therefore this matter should be kept under constant 
review by operating elements:.] . 
' . : qg 
2. :: (ieconnaissance - CIA Monthly Forecast 
Mr. McCone told the Group that the weather has suddenly opened 
up over North Vietnam and that the mission to cover ~hat area, via 
Laos, which was approved by the Special Group on 17 -lanuary, will ··i 
actually be la~nched tonight. He said that after this is completed 
the airplane will be ferried to Taiwan in accordance with the dis­
cussion at the meeting of the 25th of February, transiting Laos on 
0 
the way. Mr. McCone also reported on the recent successful GROSBEAK 
mission. • -
EYES ONLY 
