13-00000 
SECRET 
said, "That money was appropriated by Congress under my command, my 
responsibility. It stays with me. He'll work with you and we'll help you and 
we'll be part of your team kind of thing. But I can't relinquish control over 
men, money, and material as appropriated to me.11 And McNamara said the same 
thing and Rusk said the same thing so that they didn't,achieve creating a 
brand new Agency in effect. And this was all brand new to the guys sitting 
around that table. It might not have been new to Schwarz, who seemed to 
understand something about Landsdale's role, because when I started to talk 
about Landsdale being in command and being in direct communication with us and 
issuing orders directly in the name of Kennedy, etc., etc., I remember Church 
saying to Schwarz, "Is General ~andsdale available anywhere?11 And Schwarz 
saying something, "Yes sir. We have tracked him down, he lives in ... 11 I think 
he said Falls Church or something. He lives in Virginia anyway, "and we're 
trying to get in touch with him to have him come here. 11 And a little later on 
he did come and testify. But this was seen like brand new stuff to them. 
This was June, mind you. And one of the things they were after was Rogue 
El~phant running operations against Cuba. And it had been written about quite 
a bit and all that kind of stuff. And they didn't have a clue. And they 
didn'~ like the idea that, ~s far as I was concerned, the Kennedy boys were in 
charge. And they were running the war. And we were fighting a war against 
Cuba, undeclared or otherwise, but we were fighting a war. I said if we were 
sending people in to create sabotage activities inside Cuba, we were blowing 
things up~ people got killed on both sides, on their side and our side. And I 
said -- that's when I got into a fight with Hart. I remember that now. And 
that was foreign policy as far as I was concerned. And that's Hart said, "It 
wasn't, the Congressman is involved." I said, "The hell with that. 11 I said 
82 
SECRET 
