'IDP SECf'ET -12-
r-t. Oslxlm scer;is to i.-ocall that the Of fire of Security had similar arrangements 
with th2 l·J,-::i3h.ingt.on, D. C. r-'etrq:X)litan Police Cc;::nrtrrent, and he thinks that 
there \-.:-er-:o instances in which such cover was acd .. Ei.lly used, but he dces not 
recall s]?2cific cases. He also states that it is possible that CIA field offices 
v,Duld have used siniilar cover of local polic:2 c.2partrrt'=nts, but he has no kno.vledge 
of such instrinces. 
M::·. Osl:orn states that he has no acquaintance \·1i th the wire taos fficlde of the 
office and ho;re phones of b...o syndicated col~sts in Washington in 1962 and 
1963, which w-ire taps are reverlled in the file as having teen authorized bv 
Attom2v G3neral Fbt-ert Ke.--irrov. (The file reveals continuation of activity 
with respect to the surveillance of these oolu:-:msts into the pericx:1 of when 
~.r. Osrom .-..,ias in the Office of Security as its D2puty Director. The file dces 
not, ho.-1ev;::,r, show any indication of actual a:.·:areness on the part of Mr. Osl:om 
that telPphone tapping was involved. On the rontrary, there are indications 
in the file that these telephone taps \·1ere disco:1tinu2d imrediately orior to 
.Mr. Bannermm becoming the Director of Security in 1963, at which t:i.rre Hr .Osborn 
also becarre the Ceputy Direc'""wr of Security. ) 
'fraining of State and Local Police and Other Assistance 
Mr. Osl::o::_Tl states that assistance was rendered to r.any local p:)lice depart:rrents, 
inclucli;1g those of the cities of New YOrk and Ou.cage, and to the Marvland and 
Virginia state p::ilicc during the peric<l 1955 to 1972. He states that this 
progr&t1 was vigorously and enthusiastically a9j?rm---ed and supported by Mr. Helms. 
l-ssistance consisted of training of personnel, the loaning of equiprrent, c::.nd the 
declassification of mJ.terials and techniques in sua.t-i areas as photo analysis, 
s1.1rV2illance techniqn~:s, metals detect.inn, ex:Jlosives detection, locks and ?icks, 
hidden microphones, telephotography and covert photography, and the setting u;?, 
h,:,ndling, and organization of intelligence operations. 
'Jhis program was tenninated upon passage of an an-endrrent to the Law Enforcerrent 
Ac;sistance Act, which prohibited assistance to local and state police depa.rtr.ents 
by the CIA. 
Mr. Osborn feels verv stronglv that the program of o:::x:>perating with and assisting 
p:,lice deoartrrents in irrproving t.rieir capubili ty to fight criITe was proper and 
that its termination is a serious disservice to the Arrerican people. Referring 
to the prohibition on CIA "p::ilice and law enforce.-rent functions" 5.n the National 
Securitv Act of 194 7, Mr. Osborn is of t:.h2 coinion that th-=-CIA in sharing its 
jnformation Md tedmical developrrcnts with state and local Police deoartrrents 
was not exercising any pal.ice or law enforce.:rent function. 
'TOP SECr-f':'T.' 
NW 50955 Docid:32203846 Page 18 
I 
