13-00000 
MAR 18 '97 06: 53PM P.3 
SECRET 
Question# 5: 
We have been working to identify all technical and surveillance operations in and,on the 
Cuban and Soviet consulates and embassies in Mexico City between September 1. and 
December 1, 1963. How can we frame a search query to determine if we have a 
comprehensive and complete list of all operations at that time? 
Until very recently, we had seen no evidence that CIA had microphone surveillandfof 
the Cuban compound. However, Dispatch HMMW 12454 (no IDEN number attached) • 
found in Box 23, Folder 9 of the Sequestered Collection, makes reference to UCOOLs 
(concealed microphones inside the Cuban Embassy In Mexico City). Though the 
dispatch reports tha_t the last UCOOL ceased functioning in 1961--before the period in 
question-the prior existence of this capability and the fac~ that the dispatcl1"'aiscysses 
the possibility of reactivation prompts the question of whether all technical and
1 
: 
surveillance operations against the Cuban and Soviet Consulates have been identified 
to the ARRB. In addition, the dispatch refers to :MI<TRAP, a telephone hot mike 
operation whiclJ.~as re-a~ated from a basehouse in November 1963. The specific hot 
mike telepho~~E appears to have been in operation during 1963. Are there 
records from this operation? Are there any other c;,perations that may have picked up 
Oswald's visit? • 
Question# 6: 
. How can a search query .be framed to document all electronic take produced 'by the 
Mexico City Station in the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month) ·and 
during the period of Oswald's vistt? How can we verify that what exists in the 
Sequestered Collection represents ·all records of technical production that were available 
at the time of the assassination? If additional records or original production still exists, 
where would it be stored or filed? What searches could be conducted to retrieve any 
additional records? If such electronic tab has been destroyed, do records exist of the 
destruction? 
This question is a follow up to question# 5. If MI<TRAP was in operation from 
September l-December 1, 1963, where are the records or transcripts describing the take? 
Was the take ever retained or reviewed? Do any original tapes or transcripts still exist? 
Where might these records be found? Were any other technical operations in progress? 
The various project files for the technical operations known to exist during this period 
are spotty and incomplete. How can the ARRB know i£ it has reviewed records of all 
the technical operation take for the relevant time period? 
SECRET 
