' l 
I 
l· i 
I 
I 
l 
:j 
·i 
\1 
,i 
!I 
'1· 
1· ) 
' 
' ~ 
~ 
. ' 
< 
• 
Congressmen and Senators may be interviewed by the 
FBI in these cases involving Congressional aides--just as they 
may be i.hterviewed in connection with other types of FBI 
investigations--and both the fact of, and the results of, 
such interviews are noted in the file reflecting the FBI 
investigation. 
(4) Allegations that Senators er Congressmen have 
violated laws within the jurisdiction of othe·r i•nvestigative 
agencies. 
These allegations are brought to the attention of 
the agency concerned--Federal, state, or local. Such allega­
tions are not investigated by the FBI. However, the coopera­
tive services of the FBI Laborator--y, Identification Division, 
and National Crime Information Center are available to other 
law enforcement agencies in the investigation of these, as 
well as other, crimes. 
Applicant Investigations 
(5) Present and former Congressmen and Senators 
often are.considered for positions in the Executive or 
Judicial Branches of the Federal Government which require· 
that the FBI conduct a thorough background investigation 
of them. 
Dependent.upon the nature of the position involved, 
the result& of these investigations are furnished to the White 
House, the Department of Justice, and/or other appropriate 
Gov~rnment agencies. • 
• (6) C9ngressmen and Senators often are interviewed 
in the course of applicant-type investigations regarding 
other persons who are being considered for Executive or 
·Judicial positions--as ·well as during applicant-type investi­
gations conducted by the FBI (at the request of the Committee 
chairman involved) concerning staff members of a limited 
number of House and Senate Committees. Both the fact of, and 
the results of, the interview of the Congressman or Senator 
are noted in the file reflecting the FBI's investigation. 
Security Cases 
(71 Either prior to, during,. or subsequent to -their 
tenure in Congress, there may be files pertaining to securitv­
type matters which relate to members of the House and Senate~ 
or Congressmen may be identified in FBI files as actual or 
intended victims of acts by subjects of security-type cases. 
NW 38296 Docld:329896-24 Page 210 
