13-00000 
2 
TheLaw 
The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act was enacted by th,e, 
Congress and signed into law by President George Bush on October 26, 1992. The law states 
"All Government records concerning the assassination of President John F. Kennedy should carry 
a presumption of immediate discldsure.11 ' 
The iaw mandates that all assassination-related materials be housed in a single ~ollection in.tli:6 
National Archives·and Records Administration (NARA). ,,. 
The Act defines five categories of information for which disclosure may be postponed, including 
national security, intelligence gathering, and privacy -- provided there is ''clear.an(l~onyincing 
evidence" of some harm which outweighs public disclosure. v -~ ,;-- ;:· j . 
The law requires all federal agencies to make .an initial assessment qf whether they possess 
records relating to the assassination. The agencies themselves will conduct an initial review to 
determine whether their records may be disclosed i1:11ffiediately or whether disclosure should be 
postponed. The agencies must then give all records that are not disclosed to the Review Board. 
The Review Board will then.evaluate all agency decisions to postpone the release of records. 
Once the Board completes its review of an. agency's .recoinmendation for postponement, all 
records, including those ,that have a postponed release date, will be transferred to NARA. The 
Act requires that all assassination records must be opened by 2017, with the exception of records 
certified for continued pos_tponement by the· President. • 
Authority of the Assassination Records Review Board 
The Senate report of The President J~hn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 
• 1992 stated that " the underlying principles guiding the legislation are independence, public 
confidence, effic:iency and cost ;effectiveness." In· order to achieve these objectives, the Act gave 
the Board the specific powers to: 
* direct government offices to provide identification aids and organize assassination records; . • ~ 
* direct government offices to transmit assassination records to the National Archives; 
* obtain assassination records that have been identified and organized by a Government office; 
* direct government offices to investigate the facts, additional information, r<rcords, or testimony • 
from individuals which the Board has reason to believe is required; 
* request the Attorney General to subpoena private persons to compel testimony, records, and 
other relevant information; 
* require any Government office to _account i~ wriling for the destruction of any records relating 
