, i • : I 
<'t ~ • ·---·\ 
\ At ab6ui 7 am that day the group that intended to kidnap General 
Schneider met to discuss last-minute instructions. According to the 
findings of the Chilean Military Cou~t which investigated the Schneider 
killing, neither the Army Lt. Colonel nor the Navy Captain were there. 
Shortly after 8 am,General Schneider's car was intercepted, on his 
way to work, by the abductorsand he was mortally wounded when he drew 
his handgun in self-defense. The Military Court determined that hand 
gurahad been used to kill General Schneider, although it also found 
* that one unloaded machine gun was at the scene of the killing. 
The first Station reports following the Schneider shooting said 
"Military Mission sources claim General Seba.eider machine gunned on 
way to work" (Santiago 587, 22 October) and "Assailants used grease 
guns." (Santiago 589, 22 October). The submachine guns had previously 
been described as "grease guns." Thus the initial reaction of the Station 
was that Schneider had been shot with the same kind of weapons delivered 
several hours earlier to the Army Lt. Colonel. Santiago then informed 
Headquarters "Station has instructed Col. Wirnert to hand over $50,000 
if Gen. Valenzuela requests 
11 
(Santiago 592, 22 October), thus indicating 
that the Station thought the kidnapping had been accomplished by Valen­
zuela's paid abductors. Later that day, the Station cabled Headquarters: .. ,,--· 
* The Military Court determined that those who participated in the 
shooting of General Schneider on October 22 were part of the Viaux-led 
conspiracy. The Court also found that this same group had participated 
in the October 19 and 20 kidnap attempts. 
In June 1972 General Viaux was convicted for complicity in the plot 
culminating in the death of General Schneider. He received a 20-year 
prison sentence for being "author of the crime of kidnapping which re-.,. 
sulted in serious injury to the victim," and a five-year exile for con­
spiring to cause a military coup. Also convicted on the latter charge 
were Generals Valenzuela and Tirado. They received sentences of three 
years in exile. 
mt 50955 Docld: 32423.')39 Page 476 
-
-
I i 
