/ ' 
' •. \ 
\ 
• have to be neutralized, 'by displacement if necessary."* (Korry to 
Meyer and Kissinger/Situation Report, 21 September 1970) In testifying, 
Kissinger felt the Korry report indicated "the degree to which Track 
I and Track II were merging, that is to say, that individuals on Track 
I were working on exactly the same problem as the CIA was working on 
Track II." (Kissinger testimony, p. 21) 
Ambassador Korry's activites in Chile between September 4 and 
October 24 support Kissinger's view that the line separating Track I 
and Track II often became blurred. For example, the Ambassador was 
authorized to make his contacts in the Chilean military aware that if 
Allende were seated, the military could expl!ct no further military 
assistance (MAP) from the United States. Later, in response to his own 
recommendation, Korry was authorized to inform the Chilean military that 
all MAP and military sales were being held in abeyance pending the outcome 
of the Congressional election on October 24. On October 7, Ambassador 
Korry received the following cable from Kissinger and Under Secretary 
* In this same situation report, Ambassador Korry related a message that 
he had sent to President Frei through his Defense Minister indicating 
the economic pressures that would be brought to bear on Chile should 
Allende assume office. 
Frei should know that not a nut or bolt will be 
allowed to reach Chile under Allende. Once 
Allende comes to power we shall do all within 
our power to condemn Chile and the Chileans to 
utmost deprivation and poverty, a policy designed 
for a long time to come to accelerate the hard 
features of a Communist society in Chile. Hence, 
for Frei to believe that there will be much of 
an alternative to utter misery, such as seeing 
Chile muddle through, would be.strictly illusory. 
The use of economic instruments as levers on Frei and the Chilean 
military was a persistent subject of White House/CIA discussions 
and of instructions to the field. Helms' notes, from the September 
15 meeting with the President and Kissinger included the notation 
"make the economy scream." Economic leverage was the primary 
topic of a September 18 White House meeting involving Kissinger, 
Helms and Karamessines. 
NW 50955 Docid:32423539 Page 447 
-
-
