13-00000 
.. I 
• tth ' • 
I;. 
I 
x ttrti t· a irwtttemrarti ·&ii·;_. ·i:mx:tit::'i::tiil"li t:#tittili& T :'rtt frwitt0¥11 tm:tbttt:r··~--.. ,, < . • • . .,..,,/n'lit ':i±zWt1tttilil: --) • ~ • ~-. : . ' . '+''_ ..... 
•• SECRET 
HR 20-54 PERSONNEL 
r (b) make periodic reviews and medical reevaluations of contract personnel 
when requested to do so. 
(5) DEPUTY DIRECTORS AND HEADS OF INDEPENDENT OFFICES will en­
sure directorate uniformity of contract administration in matters such as 
qualifications determination, compensation, allowances and other benefits, 
personnel record keeping, systematic cost accounting, performance evalua­
tions, cover determination and training, terminations, and security and 
medical approval processing requirements. 
(6) THE DIRECTOR OF TRAINING will provide appropriate training courses 
. and facilities for contract personnel. 
(7) THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE will 
(a) administer pay, leave, and allowance entitlements of contract person­
nel consistent with contract provisions and cover requirements; 
(b) in coordination with the Covert Tu, Board, administer a secure system 
for the settlement of Federal income tax and social security tax ob­
ligations. 
d. AUTHORITIES 
(1) The Director of Personnel, his Deputy, and the Special Contracting Officer 
(Chief, Contract Personnel Division) are, upon request of a Deputy Director, 
an Operating Official, Head of Independent Office, or a duly appointed 
contract approving officer, authorized to execute, amend, renew, and 
terminate contracts with contract personnel. 
(2) Deputy Directors and Heads of Independent Offices may designate Con­
. tract Approving ,Officers to approve contracts when payment ls to be 
• charged against funds· under their control 
(3) Authority delegated to Chiefs of Station and Base under the provisions of 
FR 20-31 is subject to the following limitations: 
(a) All contracts executed in the field will be subject to review by the 
Director of Personnel. 
(b) Deputy Directors may limit the exercise of the authority granted to 
chiefs of field installations to any extent they deem desirable. 
(c) Contracts prepared by headquarters will be amended only by, or with 
the prior approval of, headquarters. Contracts executed in the field 
may be amended .in the field, but all such amendments must be for­
warded to headquarters. 
(4) All contracts written under the authority of this regulation will be subject 
to legal review by the General Counsel under such conditions as he may 
prescribe. • 
e. PROCEDURES. Requirements . and procedures concerning personnel records, 
personnel actions, security approvals, cover, cover salary, medical evaluations, 
compensation, qualifications determination, training, and processing of con­
tracts, are set forth in HHB 20-12. • 
54. AGENTS. This paragraph sets forth policy, responsibilities, and authorities 
concerning the engagement _and the management of agents. 
a._ GENERAL. Agents are witting manpower assets, unique to the Operations 
Directorate, who carry out espionage and covert action tasks on behalf of the 
Agency. Agents are Iiot employees of the U.S. Government. They are self­
employed individuals whose services may be acquired or terminated at any 
time. Care must be taken to· distinguish between agents, defined herein, and 
independent contractors, defined in HR 20-53a(2). 
128 -+Revised: 23 February- 1973 ('.733) 
·SECRET 
I u I 
I I) 
I 
ipERSONNEL 
b. POLICY 
(1) Agents cannot i 
Government em­
with normal pe1 
(a) Initial appr1 
commitmen•1 
an agent. ; 
(b) Agents will 1 
and a maruj 
and control! 
(1) No com! 
pensati•I 
at a rat 
maxlm1 
This lit 
.does no 
• (2) No com 
fits, wtt 
benefit: 
normal 
expens,: 
(3) No corri 
will be: 
_m1tme1' 
Operat 
Securit 
(c) Engageme1j 
controls. 
( d) In general 
ards. HowE 
to provide 
be carried 
(e) Agents wbi 
the United: 
their assoc: 
tax liabiliti 
20-35.) 
(f) The use of: 
• will -be go•! 
(2) All commltmei1 
Formal Agreer:! 
(a) A Formal : 
an author:! 
tiated whi! 
. (b) A Memon 
• ment, .sigi 
agent. USI 
those casE 
agent's si1! 
• (c). An agent'.: 
L. randum Ii: 
-+Revised: 23 Februa1 
