j 
I 
1•' 
c· 
( 
( 
' 
[ 
[ 
A.. 
P.ART II 6.A 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
PRESS RELEASES 
Enployees are forbidden to furnish to the press either ~irectly or indirectly 
any information concerning ~ureau matters without prior authorization from the 
Bureau except in following instances. (Bureau in turn must obtain departmental 
clearance a·s set forth in Departmental Order 2460. ) • 
1. Bureau authority is granted for SA.Cs to make releases on purely routine 
cases, local in nature, not involving other field divisions, national 
policy, national interest, other Federal agencies, state, county, or 
municipal employees, or persons of prominence whose names would be 
news worthy in th ems.elves, and where arr es ts have been made with the . 
authorization of the USA in the following classifications. The Bureau 
is to be advised that such releas~s have been made. 
a. Routine cases in which complaints have'been filed 
b. Selective Service cases, except when draft boards are involved 
c. Interstate transportation of stolen motor vehicle, except when wide­
spread rings are. involved~ 
d. White Slave Traffic .A.ct· 
e. Deserter cases, except charges growing out of,.th·e harbo~ing of 
deserters • • 
f. Illegal wearing of uniform 
g. Impersonation 
h. • National Firearms .Act • ;· • •• 
i. [State Firearms Controi Assistance Act; unlawful possession or 
receipt of firearms] 
j. Extortion 
k. -Red Cross .Act 
1. Theft from interstate sh1pment 
m. May .Act 
n. Patent matters 
o. Copyright matters 
p. Federal Reserve .Act 
q. Mail fraud 
r. Falsely claiming citizenship 
s. Illegal manufacture, possession, or wearing of civil ·defense insignia 
t. Illegal manufacture, sale, or use of military cremation urn 
u. Crimes on the high seas 
v. National Bankruptcy Act 
w. Theft, embezzlement, robbery, illegal possession_of,. or:destruciion of 
Government property • • 
x. Crimes on Indian·reservation 
y. Crimes on Government reservation 
z. Bills of Lading .Act 
aa. False entries in records of interstate carrier~ 
ab. Illegal use of a railroad'pass 'ft 
ac. Interstate transportation of gambling devices 
ad. Interstate transportation of lottery tickets·-
ae. Interstate transportation of· obscene ·matter· . ' • • 
af·. Escaped Federal prisoner;· escape ·and rescue, parole ·violator or· 
• conditional release violat6f or probation _violator· • 
ag. Interstate transportation; of stolen property. • .-. 
ah. Unlawful flight to avoid prosecution, unlawful.flight to avoid 
confinement, unlawful flight to avoid giving testimony (Bureau still 
to be promptly advised) 
ai. Bank robbery 
aj. Interstate transportation of stolen cattle 
ak. Migratory Game Bird Act 
1 
8-27-68 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1021 
