[107B - C SECTION 107 -CURI.TY DTFORl1AU'l'S (AND CONFH ~fAL SOURCES] 
Investigation of communist petition signers who are acquainted with 
Commur.ist Party functionaries 
-· 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
. [ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[C • 
NW 38321 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
[16 .. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
Be alert to receive any suggestions of plant executives and highly placed 
personnel who arc reliable and friendly to the Bureau concerning members 
of subversi Ye organizations who might c·ooperate wit~1 the Bureau or employ­
ees who might be willing to infiltrate a subversive organization. In the 
past such ·contacts have on occasion resulted in the plant 1 s making avail­
able the services of an employee who already is an infor~ant of the manage­
ment. • 
Pe~sonnel directors in plants frequently are able to advise of members of 
communist--dominated unions who retain their :membership merely to holu 
their positions. 
W:i.th .regard ·l;o both 10 and 11 abo·re, if poss:i.ble, the official should 
suggest to the potential i~formant that he contact the Bureau rather 
than have an Agent originate the contact. 
After the Bureau has notified the armed forces of a communist in an indus­
trial plant having armed forces contracts, the oom,~unist frequently recants 
when he is informed of the charges and is f2.cing the possibility of dis­
missal or transfer to a nonrestricted position in the same plant. At 
such a time, officers friendly to the Bureau sometimes suggest that 
the person aclvise the Bu.re au of liis past activities. Be alert ·to take 
advantage of such cooperation when offered. 
Review of Communist Party registration records to ascertain what individ­
uals merely registered but ne,er became active 
Use of a reliable th_ird par'cy to make the contact with a possible inform­
anJti wh~n direct contact by 2.n Agent is ina.dvisa.blc. Request Bureau to 
furnish the services of an individual who is available for such a contact. 
Officials and employees of foreign establishDents in the U. s. 
Employees of the United Nations Secretariat 
Co~tacts (business, social, or otherwise) of foreign officials stationed 
in -:. :· .- U. S . 
Ind~.·-~:..a.uals who because of background, employment, or social status are 
in a position of intellfgenoe interest to a foreign principal and who 
,·rill undert2.ke intelligence assignments under the guidance of the 
Bureau. ( See deseco progr2.m, section 105K, 6b., volume IV, of this manual. )J 
INVESTIGATIOH OF POTE!-TTIAL[ S}t~CURITY]INFOfil'I.AHTS 
·when a decision nmde to consider a particular indi vi du.al for informant pur­
poses, bc>.ck.ground inYestigation must be conducted, This should consist of 
the following: 
1. Check of field office files for derogatory information, particularly 
of a subversive nature 
2. Discreet canY2.ss of o·l;her informants to ascertain if the potential inform­
ant is known to current informants of your office 
3. Inqui:-.>les of discreet nature to obtain information concerning the in_divid­
ual Is personal history (date and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, health, 
reliability, stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past 
emplo_yments, and bu~ines s connections. Background in Yes tigation must 
defini tcly establish '.;hat the potential inf orm?.n·I; can be utilized wi thou·!; 
any danger of future embarrassment due to instability or unreliability. 
Sec,lring b<",ckground• inform:d;ion from the potenti~i.l informant is _not 
sufficient; the background of the individual must be established by the 
investigation. • 
4. Check of local credit and arrest records. Obtain necessary data for 
·f;he completion of an :i!'D-9 form which should be transmitted to the Identi­
fication Di7ision to obtain the record, if any, of the informant. 
5. Armed services record should be reviewed if the individual is a veteran. 
6. Check dra.ft status or status in the armed forces reserve. 
_7. Dcmestio.staius and if any marital difficulties all details should bo 
obtained. 
1381 
4 
2-12-ljO 
... 
) .. 
; 
~ 
i 
i • i 
I i • l 
i 
! 
j 
! 
I 
f 
I I 
l 
I 
I 
I l l 
I 
i I 
) I 
I I ! 
! i 
I ; 
-i 
l 
l i 
I 
' I 
I 
- i ! 
i I l 
i 
I l 
i 
