-'). 
·• ... ) 
has to a considerable extent interfered with their 
propaganda at these festivals. • Because of this, 
Wilef is interested once again in divisive and dis­
ruptive efforts against the Communists in Algiers 
in 1965. This time Wiley states that it would be 
dangerous because of the attitude of thi Moroccan 
Government. Wiley believes that it would be best 
to have a small team of three to six trained in­
dividuals who would proceed to the Youth Festival 
at Algiers and who would be directed not at dis­
ruption or propaganda, but would aim at intelligence 
gathering. Wiley himself stated that he would again 
volunteer to go to Algiers at this time, not ostensi­
bly connected with the aforementioned group, and only 
as a free lance newspaperman. Wiley pointed out that 
undoubtedly he is not the top news authority in the 
United States on Communist Party Youth Festivals. 
Wiley states that he believes he can arrange financing 
from private organizations and individuals for the 
three to six individuals mentioned above and possibly 
enough for travel by himself although this may not be 
,-t--~~~~..,1-,1 -. vu ._c..,.J.., .. c..v .... - . 
and advice. 
Wiley req~2sts e study of This m<'lr.rei:-
11 (d) Bay of Pigs Book Review - Wiley stated that he 
cannot as yet explain why the National Review did not 
publish his Bay of Pigs review, but in fact paid him 
for iti He is convinced that the review·was withheld 
because of some Agency influence. He submitted cor­
respondence from Frank Meyer, one of the editors of 
the National Review in this connection. 
"(e) The Kennedy Book - Wiley commented that his friend 
Dick Whalen, an outstanding young ,vriter, has just com­
pleted a book on either Joseph B. Kennedy or the Kennedy 
- family for which Whalen received :$100,000 in advance. 
Wiley states that he has helped Whalen write the book, 
giving him advice and assisting him editorially. Wiley 
states that there are two items of which he is extremely 
pleased of his work in connection with this book: 
'- SEP ? 1 197:5 
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 76 
He convinced \·!hal en to rcwri te 
the chapter on the Bay of Pigs, 
focusing the blame from the CIA 
to John F. Kennedy, and 
-88-
