13-00000 
--~4'l23/~7 WED 1!.:!!.._FAX 202 llLQ4ijL..__ ARRB 
l 4 t 
-6-
CIA Stations and Other Issues 
Over the past two years the Review Board has establlshed·other guideline$ that will 
continue to guide the review process, some of which will be outlined here.· For CIA > .. 
stations, all locaOons related to the Mexico City story will be released during the periodt' 
-1960-69. Outside of that window, they will be released on a case-by-case basis should 
the Identity ·of the station be critical to understanding the assassination. Other stations, 
except for those Identified as particularly sensitive, will be· released from the beginning 
of the Kennedy administration until the publication of the Warren Commlsslpn report, 
(i.e., January1, 1961 to October 1, 1964). Outside of th~e windows, stationi"Will be 
postponed.· Cable prefixes~ dispatch prefixes, and. field report prefixes would b~ __ i \ 
• postponed or released according to the same windows.as .the stations to which they 
refer. CIA Job titles also are redacted or opened along with the station at which the 
officer served. • 
Crypts would be released along lines similar to other Information. Ali "LI" crypts, except 
those considered particular1y sensitive would be released through October 1, 1964, as 
are •AM· crypts and U.S. government crypts. In other areas, only the digraph Is 
protected. Again, the exception is sensitive crypts, which would be protected in their 
entirety. After October 1, 1964,Jhe pr8$umption shifts towards protecti9n of the crypts, 
except those that provide meaningful Information about the assassination story. (For 
example, crypts pertinent to _Garrison-era documents would likely carry the same 
. presumption of release as those generated during the Warren Commission.) 
• Survelllance methods will be released if the nature of the surveillance has a material 
bearing on intormatlon related.to the assassination unless CIA provides evidence 
demonstrating the political or operational sensitivity, in which case the Information will 
be released In 2017, • 
e:\arrb\regs\eview.wpd 
~007 
