13-00000 
Folder Summaries oftheNosenko Material Not Believed to be Relevant to the JFK 
Assassination 
Reel 45, Folder 3 
During July and August 1965, Peter Deryabin, a Soviet defector, conducted a series of 
interrogations of Nosenko in conjunction with CIA efforts to establish Nosenko's bona 
tides; This folder contains one 66 page verbatim transcript of two interrogation sessions 
which cover Nosenko's family, background, early career and Komsomol experiences. 
Reel 45, Folder 4 
1 
This folder contains a 76 page verbatim transcript of two interrogation sessions by Peter 
Deryabin which cover Nosenko's career, Party membership, Komsomol personalities and 
procedures, military personalities and experiences, and his incarceration by CIA. 
Reel 45, Folder 5 
This folder contains a 59 page verbatim transcript of two interrogation sessions by Peter 
Deryabin which cover Nosenko's military career, KGB buildings, personalities and 
procedures, and other Soviet intelligence people, roles, and titles. 
Reel 45. Folder 6 
All the documents iri this folder, but one, have been released to the public. The NBR 
document is a five page February 1964 memo from the Director of the Soviet Division 
• (C/SR) David Murphy to the Deputy Director of Plans (DD/P) Richard Helms on plans 
to debriefNosenko based on C/SR's belief that Nqsenko is a Soviet plant. 
Reel 45, Folder 8A and B 
Folder 8A contains the263 page "Conclusions and Comments in the Case of Yuriy 
Ivanovich Nosenko" 1 October 1968 report by Bruce Solie, Deputy Chief of the Security 
Research Staff which concludes that Nosenko is a bona fide defector and should be 
believed. A sanitized version of the Solie report has been released to the public. The 
NBR document in folder 8B. is a 135 page report on Nosenko prepared in April 1969 by 
N. Scott Miler of the Count~rintelligence Staff (DC/Cl/SIG) based on the comments and 
questions of Anatoliy Golitsyn. The report contains Gplitsyn's comments on 
inconstancies he believes exist in Nosenko's testimony ap.d his recoiilmendations for 
further questioning. Golitsyn believed Nosenko was a dispatched agent. 
