NY 105-8180 
' - • i 
• • On 3/5/57, Special Agents of the FBI observed 
.. the activitj_es of a certain individual in the offices 
, of the Ceylon Delegation where the afore-mentioned code 
was known. to.. be kept, and subsequently observed t;h:ts 
individual with GRUSHA. Approximately one hour later, 
after this individual had again been observed with 
GRUSHA, he was observed rei.:urmng a red covered book . • 
to the offices of the Ceylon Delegation. 
.. A review of the New York Office Indices • 
"i • reflects numerous referencesto the name SAMUEYJAI11FE; 
;. however~ based on the information from_,..; ·1t 
would appear that the subject is identical with the 
• • '.·· • JAFFE named by -· This ide·ntification is based 
•• upon the following facts obtained from the previous 
investigation of the subject .. 
. . 
• According to~ JAFFE., on numerous • 
• .occasions during 1955 and 1956 ,-;.:had been in contact [ \ 
. • with individuals at the Soviet Embassy in Washington, • ~ Jj 
•. • D. C. in 1"'egard to visa matters pert'q.ining to his contemplated!/ 
travel to the USSR. • 
. ' 
In April, 1954, according to~ 
JAFFE was in contact with the Soviet United Nations 
Delegation in New York City. At this time, it was 
determined that he was employed as a culture researcher 
• for n Li fen Magazine :in New York City, and had contacted 
the Soviet United Nations Delegation in connection 
with some work he was doing on a story for this 
magazine. Subsequently, it was determined from 
inqu:try at the offices of 11Life 11 Magazine., that 
JAFFE was born on 6/19/28. •. . • 
Passport records of the Department of State, • 
reviewed on 7/27/55, (as set forth in WFO letter of 8/25/55), 
reflect that JAFFE, in a supplemental statement dated 
6/22/55 in connection with his passport, indicated 
that he ·wished to have his passport amended to allow 
him to travel in Communist China as a orofessional 
American journalist. It was indicated.further, that 
he had excellent reason to believe that the Red Chinese 
Government would allow him to enter their country as 
a journalist in view of the fact that during the 
Asian-African Conference at Bandung, Indonesia, he 
obtained an interview with Red Chinese Premier CHOU-EN-LAie 
Docld:32989104 116 2 -
·lC·' \_ , I 
-l 
! l 
l .1 
.I 
.I I 
