87-D 
[ 
[ 
--- .. -~,- , .. _, --·--··- .... ___ . . . 
(5) 
NW Docld:32989529 
87, 
(f) Advise the Bureau promptly in form suitii,ble for dissemi­
nation of a subje6t's return from travel abroad in those 
instances in which stops have been placed with security 
services abroad through the agencies li~ted above. In 
instances in which an individual against whom stops hair.e 
been placed has traveled ·to any country behind the Iron 
Curtain, the Bureau shall also be furnished at that time 
with reco~mendations as to the desirability of interview 
of such person and with adv~ce as to whether additional 
investigation concerning him is contemplated, In the event 
~uch an interview is authorized, it shall be conducted 
promptly and the case shall not be closed until such inter­
view is had and the results thereof submitted in report 
form. 
(g) In some instances a security investigation of·a subject not 
yet included in the security index may be in progress at_ 
• the time it is found that the subject has recently departed 
for a foreign country, If the evidence developed at that 
time warrants the inclusion of the subject in the security 
index were it not for the fact that he is outside the U. S., 
form FD-122 should be submitted recommending his inclusion 
in the unavailable section of the s,,-111rity- index. After all 
initial investigation is completed, • he subject'$ case will 
be handled the same as those of other subjects of a similar 
• stat~s who are included in the unavailable section•as out of 
the country. 
If the subject is an alien who has been deported o~ has 
dtherwise permanently departed from the U. S,, he should 
not be included in the securiiy index. 
When it is determined that a security index subject has 
departed for a foreign country, his security index card 
• shall be placed in the unavailable section and his case 
handled in accordance with the instructions set forth 
under 87D 7b (6) (b) IV. 
Investigative techniques 
While it is not possible to enumerate all investigative techniques 
whic~ can and should be employed in these investigations, there 
are certain proven techniques which have been used with con-
tinued success and should be applied wherever poss~ble. 
(a) 'File reviews . 
Upon the initiation of a security investigation of an 
individual, check the office indices and re-view files 
thoroughly for any pertinent tnformation on record showing 
backgrountl and subversive activity of each individual 
subj~ct. Include such information in the initial in7esti­
ga.tive report. 
Once a main secuiity file has been ~pened for an indi7idual, 
subsequent information received concerning him should be 
channelized to that file. The reference cards pertaining 
to the subject should be consolidated in the indices 
• after each check and review of files has been made. 
(b) Security informants 
845 
Success of security investigations of individuals is 
primarily dependent upon a broad co~fidential informant 
coverage within every phase of subversive activity. 
Information and evidence developed through such sources 
a.re unsurpassed in value because of possible use not only 
for intelligence purposes but also as admissible evidence, 
34 
7-15-60 
