in the National Liberation Front, the rebel 
government. Yet most of the r""Ople support 
the NLF. Why? Many of the s~~ . ~ people who 
now lead the NLF ·1ed • the VieTnamese inde-
• pendence movemenfagainstthe Japanese dur­
ing World War II, and then went on to fight 
. against French colonial rule. Most Vietnam­
ese think of the NLF leaders as their coun-
try's outstanding patriots. In fact, many anti- .. 
Communists have joined the guerrilla forces 
in the belief that the most important thing is 
to get rid of foreign domination and military· 
dictators. On the other hand, very few Viet-·. 
• namese support the official gover.nmenf of. .• • 
. General Ky. His army has low morale and a 
high desertion rate. • 
• THE GUERRILLAS 
· The newspapers and television have told 
us again and again what a tough fighter the 
. Vietnamese guerrilla is. Short of ammuni­
tion and without any air cover, he can beat· 
forces that outnumber him five or ten to one •. 
Why do they have such high morale? They • 
are not draftees; no draftees ever fight like 
. that. They are not high-paid, professional 
soldiers. Most of them are peasants who work 
their fields; they can't even spare the amrriu:- . •• • 
nition for target practice. 
. . 
• _ Their secret is that they know why they . 
are fighting .. They didn't hear about Vietna_m .... 
in the newspapers; they've lived there all their .. 
lives. While we were in high school, they 
were living under the Diem regime and hating 
\_J 
askedhimselfwhy they were shooting at him. 
When a certain r• 'fll became a center of re­
sistance activity\.,_ ,e followed his orders and 
destroyed the whole town. He knew that SS 
men were torturing captured resistance fight.: 
ers, • but it wasn't his business to interfere. 
. FOLLOWING ORDERS . 
As a soldier you have been trained to obey 
• orders, • but as a human being you must take 
responsibility for your own acts. Interna-
tional and American law recognize that an in­
dividual soldier, even if acting under orders, 
must bear final legal and moral responsibility 
for what he does. This principle became a 
part of law after World War II, when the Al­
liednations, meeting in London, decided that 
German war criminals must be punished even 
if. they committed war crimes under orders. 
,. This principle was the basis of the Nurem-. 
• berg trials. - We believe that the entire war 
in Vietnam is criminal and immoral. • We be­
lieve that the atrocities which are necessary 
to wage this war against the people of Vietnam 
are.inexcusable. • • 
. OPPOSE THE WAR 
> We hope that you too find yourself, as a 
human being, unable to tolerate this night­
mare war; and we hope that you will. oppose 
• it .. We don't know what kind of risks we are· 
taking in giving you this _leaflet; you won't 
.. knowwhat risk you.will be taking in opposing 
the war. A growing number of Gis have al­
. ready refused to fight in Vietnam· and have 
• been court-martialed. They have shown great 
courage. We believe that they, together with 
· it. Now American planes are bombing their . 
towns and strafing their fields; American 
troops have occupied their country; and if 
they complain out loud, an American - sup-. 
ported dictator sentences them to jail or the· 
firing squad. Is it any wonder that they fight 
so·fiercely? 
_ - other courageous men who will join them, will . 
have influence far out of proportion to their 
numbers. • • • 
NW 
CRUSHING THE RESISTANCE 
The war in Vietnam is not being fought ac- .. 
cording_to the rules. Prisoners are tortured. 
Our planes drop incendiary bombs on civilian 
villages. Our soldiers shoot at women and 
children. Your officers will tell you that it is 
all necessary, that we couldn't win the war 
any other way. And they are right. Ameri­
ca. ns a.re no more cruel than any other peo­
ple; Amcrica.n soldiers don't enjoy this kind· 
of war. &it if you are going to wage war · 
JgJi11st an entire people, you have- to become . cruel. • • • 
The ordinary German soldier in occupied 
Europe wasn't especially cruel, either. But 
as the resistance movements grew, he be­
came cruel. He shot at women and children 
because they were shooting at him; he never 
•· 
Docld:34530150 Page 31 
25 
There may be many other things you can 
do; since you are in the service, you. lmow 
better than civilians what sorts of opposition 
are possible. But whatever you do, keep your . 
eyes open. Draw your own conclusions from 
the things you see, read and hear. At orien­
tation sessions, don't be afraid to ask ques-. 
tions, ·and if you're not satisfied with the • .. ' 
answers, keep asking. Take every chance 
you get to talk to your fell ow soldiers about 
the war. -
. • You may feel the war is wrong-, and still 
decide not to face a court-martial. You may 
then find yourself in Vietnam under orders. 
You micrht be forced to do some fighting -­
but don't do any more than youhave to. Good 
luck. 
Vietnam Day Commlttco 
2407 Fulton Street 
llcrkelcy, Ca.lUornL> 
549-0811 
