Yi 
Q 
IQ 
Yi 
Yi 
1:flPRtgt Oh d 
,;fo~;tall ptlilic ~i~clci~~;;of-~oselli's 
past operational activity with the CIA" 
that might'occur if deportation pro-
• ceedings were pursued. The INS 
agreed to keep the-~ informed, but 
at his .death; Roselli and his lawyers 
\\'.ere still fighting ~eportation. 
: "Bo~ ~~u ;m~tb~ running scared • 
• --I thought about:that just· the other. 
day: 'Jeswi;what's Maheu thinking?'" 
said another of Roselli's brothers-in• 
law, Peter Cardillo of New Jersey. . 
The public doesn't know what Ma­
heu is thinking.whether he worries if 
, • pro-Castro Cubans are exacting retri-
pealed to Harvey tor ne1p and Harvey bution for sins ot 16 years ago. Maheu's 
recommended to the CIA that it try to secretary in Las Vegas says she doesn't 
prevent prosecution, but Roselli was know where her boss is or when he'll 
convicted of violating interstate gam- be returning to· his office. He report-
/
; bling laws. He went to jail, returning edly has. some business interest in 
. in _1974 to Plantation to do battle Egypt, a part of the world that seems 
agamst government efforts to deport , .. to hold some fascination for the Castro 
him. . • . • , ,/)>lotters; Giancana_ !Iept an apartment 
In 1971 the CIA asked the Immigra- ._ ;m Beirut and, just before his death, 
tion and Naturalization Service to ··.·told a friend he had some sorl:'of deal 
./o/irzm· Nu~elli 
/975. upper n1 
and. countcrcl(J 
wi:-u1 from upp<-r 1 
Fidel Ca,,tro in 
Sam Giancana in 
Pre:,ident John 
Ke_nn_edy in 
----Da~e:.:.eouizlff,T" 
Lt. Gary Minni 
and the Flor 
home U)here Ro,, 
lived be/ore 
. death. 
Photos by Tile Washln~ton r 
The Chicago Daily New,. AP,-··· 
brewing there. And Roselli longingly Church committee-put him in a rope­
eyed the opening of gambling casinos _ dancer's position of sometimes receiv­
in the land of the new oil millionaires. ' ing, sometimes taking advantage of his In Tampa, San te, an- knowledge of the darkest side of ·gov-
other of the origina p, also ernment. . 
refuses to talk with the press. But un • • While some have speculated that he 
like the others, be did not testify be- was killed for talking too much to gov­
fore the Church committee so the pub- ernment investigators, Roselli was 
lie has no inkling of his thoughts on hardly a loudmouth in the league of a 
the Castro assassination attempts. .. ., . ·Joe Valachi, who sang for televised 
Whether Roselli's killing was one of Senate-hearings on the Mafia in 196R-:-:·· 
retribution for a public or a private Fourteen years ago Roselli confided in 
matter, Jo}lnny Roselli was a testa- his .lawyer, Washington attorney Ed­
ment to an era that has passed. His life, ward Morgan, that he had been told by 
which would have remained largely Cuban sources in Miami that John 
unnoticed save for the Senate's CIA • Kennedy's killing was ordered and ar­
hearings, seemed straight from the ranged by Castr_o, but he lived with his 
pages of a Mafia novel: allegedly secret. 
brought into the United States illegally The day after Roselli's body was 
at the turn of the century, Roselli scooped from its crude coffin. his 
clawed his way from the mean streets brother-in-law in New Jersey, Peter 
of Boston and Chicago to the relative • Cardillo, told me: "Down deep, in a 
glamor of Hollywood, Las Vegas and, way, I probably hope it was connected 
finally, Miami. Along the way, a simple with (the Castro affair). At least then 
strain of patriotisII1-whlch impressed Johnny, be would have died for a 
the CIA enough to mention it to the cause." 
