[ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 [ 
'L..-.i., ··i ,.}). ..• • .. _ ,., , __ .;, __ ;_ __ '.~ .1. IVJ. '10 
24 November, 1998 
Memo for the Record 
Subject: JFK Records Review - Lessons Learned 
The CIA's JFK Collection is made up primarily of 
records pulled together for the Warren Commission, House 
Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) and the 
Assassinations Records Review Board (ARRB) .• It contains a 
significant amount of duplication and non-JFK related 
material. The current index is flawed and contains gaps. 
Release standards were liberal; basically only source 
identities and information, names of agents, employees under 
cover, Agency locations and foreign liaison activities were 
redacted. There is no evidence in the Collection to indicate 
that the Warren Commission conclusions were wrong. 
J:. The JFK Act 
Mandated review and declassification projects can be 
two-edged swords. The JFK Act ·forced the Agency to review 
records that should have been opened years ago. The legal 
requirement to presume release, backed up by an independent 
review, resulted in the opening of documents that clearly 
would not have been released under other programs. However, 
the Act and the Review Board created by the Act imposed un­
realistic deadlines, inflexible standards and procedures 
which created a major drain on all Agency review resources 
and had an over-all negative effect on the Agency's release 
program. 
Unrealistic Deadlines: The release dates set by the 
Act did not take into account the start-up tim~ and costs 
(searches, inventorying and indexing) of a project of this 
magnitude, nor the time it would then take for a page-by­
page review and· Sanitization of classified documents ... F_or 
example, initial indexing of the collection was done on a 
crash basis using overtime employees and resulted in a 
flawed database. The revising, re-indexing and updating of 
that database took several thousand man-hours and continues 
today. 
Mandated Procedures: NARA's and ARRB's interpretation 
of the law created a time-consuming, labor-intensive review 
process that meant an inordinate amount of time was spent by 
both the Agency and Board staff on issues which were 
marginal to the story and to processing decisions by the 
Board. For example: 
a. Under the JFK Act every piece of paper in the 
collection was considered a "unique" assassination record. 
The result is a stagger~~g amount of chaff and duplica~ion. 
