13-00000 
"•""""'.\"'·. 
. . 
But. anyw11y. that. w_ns in th<> book that was lat<>.r found. an<l which <'Ontain<>rl 
many other things that Oswald had entered in the br>0k. 
Now, as I say, up to that time, there had been -no information that would ! 
ha,·e warranted our reporting him as a potential dangN· or hazard to the s<'<·urit)· I 
or the safety of the President or the Vice Pref;ident, so his 11a111e wus not fur­
nished at the time to Secret Ser,·ice. 
Under the new criteria which we ha,·e now put into force 11ml effect, it 
would have been furnished because we now include all defec·tors. As to the 
original criteria, which we felt were sound and suffi<-ient and whi('}1 we felt 
no ·one, not even the most extreme civil rights Ilroponent could take ex<:<>ptiou to. 
we limited the furnishing of names to S.S. to persons poteutinlly dangerous 
to the physical well being of the President. We included emotionally unstable 
people who had threatened the President or Vice President. ~ 
At my office during the course of a We('k there are sometimes three or four 
callers who have to be taken to a Hospital because of their mental condition. 
They claim they are being persecuted by radii} beams and they want to see 
me or. the President to ha,·e those beams stopped. Now you never know what 
tangent they are going to take. If such a person is lh·ing in some p:irt of the 
country where the President may be going his name would be furnished to the 
Secret Service. 
One car last year, I think, crashed througl\ the gates of the White House; 
the person driving wanted to see the President. The guard wouldn't let him in 
and so the car crashed through and got within 20 feet of the first door. • The 
guards, by that time, had their re,·oh·ei:s out. and took him into custody. 
Last year a gentleman drove all the way from Arizona to see me. He drove 
up the marble step .. of the Department of Justice, and by that time the guards 
had come out and took him into custody. I think he was incarcerated in Arizona. 
People of this type are among those we would ha,·e furnished to the Secret 
Service. They have the potential to harm somebod~·. • 
We get names from members of Congress, of people who come to the Capitol 
and try to threaten them or harass them. They let us know about it, and we 
make the investigation or advise the police. If we can get the family to have 
the person put into an institution, we try to do so. If they don't, we may take 
steps to have him incarcerated through other legal means. 
l\fr. DULLES. How many names. l\fr. Director, in general, could the Secret 
Service process? Aren't their facilities limited as to dealing with vast numbers 
of names because of their limited personnel? 
Mr. HOOVER. I think they are extremely limited. The Secret Service is a very 
small organization and that is why we are fortifying them, so to speak, or supple­
menting them by assigning agents of our Bureau which ls, of course, quite 
a burden on us. Our agents are assigned about 24 to 25 cases per agent and 
cover such Involved matters as bankruptcy and antitrust cases. 
Now, the Secret Service has a very small group and I would estimate that 
the names we have sent over number some 5,000. I would guess there are about 
another 4,000 that will go over in the next month to them. Frankly, I don't 
see how they· can go out and recheck those names. We keep the records up to 
date; if additional information comes in on these names we furnish it to the 
Secret Service. They will have to call upon the local authorities, unless the 
Secret Service force is enlarged considerably so that they can handle it entirely 
bn their own .. I think the Secret Service is entirely too small a force today 
to handle the duties that they are handling. The great crowds that are at the 
White House all the time. around the gates, that :!Oto church where the President 
goes, all of those things, of course, have to be checked over by them. They 
always check in advance and just recently, a few Sundays ago, they found 
some individuals in the basement of St. l\Iark's church In Washington, where 
he was going to attend on Sunday morning. His arrival was held up until they 
could ascertain who they were. They were deaf mutes whose identity had not 
been cleared with the Secret Service. 
Now, the Presidential party was delayed about 5 or 10 minutes in reaching 
the church by reason of the radio call to the White House to hold it up. 
We are gh·ing to Secret Service more and more names. The total, in addition J 
to the names they already had, will reach 10,000. I don't see how they are -· 
113 
