13-00000 
'• 
. . 
- ·- _,..._ • ,._._ V • ._,. 
-5-
Relat1ons of the United States, 1961-63Vol. 3) and the title page of a 213-page Record 
[of the} Eighth Secretary of Defense Conference from the Joint Chiefs of Staff Official 
File that has now been opened in full. Prior to Review Board action, the memorandum 
had been excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification and could 
presumably have remained classified forever. A stamp on page 1 discloses that the 
document was systematically reviewed by JCS In May 1989 and the classification of 
Top Secret was continued. The document.was opened in full at a declasslflcatlo11 
~ssion in July 1997. . 
Illustration 7. See Exhibit E. Like the FBI, the CIA typically Is reluctant to 
release infonnation regarding technical surveillance. Exhibit E is a monthly operational 
report from Mexico City from September 1-30, 1963, a period that Includes Oswald's 
arrival In the Mexican capital. In 1993, the document was postponed in its entirety. The 
Review Board voted to open the record In its entirety . 
Illustration 8. See Exhibit F. The Review Board has also had some success in 
releasing NSA records. Exhibit F Is dated November 26, 1963, and discloses NSA's 
intercepts of communications related to Cuban mllltary alerts after the assassination. It 
was originally unavailable to the public in any fonn and was exempt from 
declassification. After Board action, the Important lnfonnation has been released. 
raioo& 
Illustration 9. See Exhibit G. Exhibit G Is a Natlonal Securi!Y-Qqµncil..document---. --· ----· • • 
that pertains .to an .alleged plot-to assasslnate·castrct· • Although lf was originally 
classified "Secret" and was deemed to be exempt from declassification, the NSC 
agreed to release it in full after discussions with the Board. 
I trust that these examples show that agencies are Initially Inclined to protect _. 
Information that can and should be released. But the examples also show that, with a 
little prodding by an independent entity, agencies can and will participate in a . 
cooperative spirit to declassify secrets. Under the current regime, outside of the JFK 
Act, agencies have little internal or external Incentive to take an energetic approach to 
declassifying records. Agencies do not send the message to agency personnel that a 
fast track to career advancement lies with the release of more infonnation than is 
absolutely necessary. Agencies have the natural dlslnclil'.latlon to release infonnatlon 
that has been painstakingly acquired. Ultlinately, secrecy becomes a habit and 
declassification is mired in lack of attention and inertia. There is, however, an important 
and encouraging message that comes out of the Board's experience: once agencies 
come to the understanding that they must declassify records and that there is a 
presumption that records should be opened, the agencies will cooperate In good faith 
with the requirements e~tafJ/ished by Congress. 
