14-00000 
, ,. • 
SECRET 
- 2 -
4. Mr~ Cheever briefed the Group on the operation-
to remove and destroy the "Streatham Hill" contaminated 
sugar. The briefing covered the chronological details 
from initiation of negotiations for purchase until 
completion of the dumping of the sugar at sea. Identities 
of the various brokers, cover companies, etc. were not 
asked for nor revealed. The Group expressed its 
satisfaction with the operation. (Mr. Parrott had 
previously advised Mr. Cheever that Mr. Bundy did not 
desire a paper on this matter.) 
5. The after-action report on the Casilda/Santa 
Lucia operations was briefly discussed. Mr. Johnson 
questioned the motives for the amount of material 
abandoned on the scene. Mr. Cheever commented that 
while it was unfortunate that the material had been 
left, it was explainable in terms of the reaction of 
soldiers under fire and especially those in their first 
fire fight. The Guatemala press release on "Commando 
Ma.mbises" was favorably commented on by Mr. Johnson. 
Mr. Bundy asked about the comment in the after-action 
report that "One cannot predict what Castro's ultimate 
reaction or reprisal will be." Mr. Cheever stated some 
of the people who closely study Castro believed that he 
would be personally furious over the attacks and that 
one could expect more rea·ction than had appeared to date. 
In response to Mr. Bundy's question whether there would 
be additional operations of this type next month, 
Mr. Cheever advised that several were in the planning 
stage, but that until he talked to our people coming up 
from Miami this weekend, he could not be certain but 
that he doubted we would ask to mount any the next 
moon period. Mr. Cheever mentioned the cancellation 
of the scheduled South Coast Caching operation due to 
the Cuban alert, the execution of the three members of 
the DOGGO team, and the probable doubling of the ATHENA 
team. Mr. Bundy asked if the Attorney General had been 
briefed on Casilda/Santa Lucia. When advised to the 
contrary, he asked that this be done when the Attorney 
General returns to Washington next week (week of 
3 September) . 
¼3_~~ 
~E B. CHEEVER 
Acting Chief 
Special Affairs Staff 
