13-00000 
SECRET 
taken the pen to use at some kind of public trial, so 
he could show the evidence. that the United States was 
behind it. The fact that he never took the pen, to me, 
is pretty good evidence that he was not a double agent. 
I don't think to this day that he ever was. In 
addition to that particular one thing that I know I was 
involved with Nestor', on and with Manny Gunn. The one 
thing that I don't know enough about is when we had to 
assign an officer to Bobby Kennedy, to be used by Bobby 
Kennedy to make contact with Mafia types in this 
country and in Canada. That Bobby Kennedy would pick 
and set the appointment time and place and our case 
officer would then go and meet whoever this person was 
and come back and report to Bobby Kennedy. The theory 
behind this apparently was that Bobby had some bright 
idea that the Mafia must have left some kind of stay­
behind network in Cuba because of all of their 
interests that they had in Cuba when Fidel came in: 
prostitution, gambling, drug running and whatever else 
was involved. He said they must have had a good stay­
behind network and we could get some decent information 
to what's going on. Well just to give you the QED of 
this, we never got any information that was worth 
disseminating. I never saw any information at all from 
it. The case officer I picked .... Apparently the way 
the request came was from Bobby to General Marshall 
Carter, who was then DDCI, to Bill Harvey, Bill Harvey 
to me, to pick· a case officer to assign to Bobby. I 
sat with Bruce Cheever and then, of course, with Bill 
himself and we decided on a guy named Charles Ford, 
Charley Ford. Charley was a huge man. Very stocky, 
make a very good lineman on any football team, and he 
know how to handle himself in any kind of problem. We 
figured he was the best kind of guy. Charley and I sat 
and we figured out he's got to have some kind of name 
to use - we can't use Charley Ford. But Charley also 
had some handkerchiefs and some shirts with CF on it, 
and rather than risk an exposure of some kind, Charley 
and I sat in my office, the ground floor of the 
building, and we said "How about Charley Rocky 
Fiscalini." And ever since then, I always called 
Charley, til he died, "Rocky." We came up with 
Fiscalini. There are two different ways of spelling 
it. I spelled it FISCALINI and Angie Novella, Bobby 
Kennedy's secretary, spelled it on her appointment log, 
FISCOLLINI, which is probably more ethnic than mine. 
But anyway, Fiscalini is the 'way you pronounce it. So 
Charley went off and he made several trips in the 
United States, and I know he made at least one if not 
more in Canada - I think it was Toronto. All at the 
behest of Bobby. Either Bobby himself would talk to 
Charley on the phone, or Angie Novella would call 
Charley on what we euphemistically called a secure 
phone - nothing more than an outside line that we had 
16 
SECRET 
