SECRET 
(~h•n Filled ln) 
SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS 
lndlca,. •lgnlflcar,t .,,.ngllu or ••okn ..... d""'onu,a,.d In Curren, po .. Qf..f~u,t; ~w,pecth•• their relationship to 
overall performance. Stat■ •ug9eatlan• made far lmprov■ment al -r1c P•lfarmanc•• GIY ■ ••comm•'n"i?atlon• for training, Commenr 
on foreign loniuog• comr•t■r,ce, II re<,11lred for current po•ltlon. Amplify or explaln rating• given In S•cllan B to provide beat 
bail& lo, d•t•rmlnlng future p■raonnel action. I erfonnonce of ona •rlal or• •••l&or dutl•• ond colt con•clou• eu 
~ lht Wfll of ppr~on f n • muat e comm t• I , I •ttpace I• n•e II to compete 
•cllon C, attac a •■ par t of paper, 7 DU 
n the past has proven himself to be a dynamic and highly-
killed operations officer whose geographic area of specialization was 
Hand whose professional forte was propagandkA-rEd.lo.,overt action activity. 
ring his 5 months association with the Washington Base, this officer 
as continued to maintain a state of exceptional proficiency while es­
ablishing himself locally under unofficial commercial. He has done this 
1th his usual high degree of energy, perception and seriousness. Having 
aid a firm operational bas., it i expected that during the next re-
orting period the operational e" from Subject will be equally firm. 
uring his brief Base tour has handled several selected oper-
tional matters within the area of his greatest competence and during 
he Fall meeting of the OAS acquitted himself wj,.th exceptional proficiency 
ubject has no supervisory duties a~.1,11,,lfe is cost conscious in 
11 re■pects. It is expected that_.., will be able to i:rovide 
eaningful assistance during the coming year in attacking those areas of 
riority operati,M!na er.~~1i,assigned to the Base by Headquarters. In 
rder to assist ~his and to enable the Base to utilize his 
any talents to e optimum, it is planned, whe~ the Base operational, 
limate allows, to have him take the - Soviet 
ealitiea course and the CI/CB course. is well-motivated and 
oes his best to become a meaningful mem er of the Washingto~ Base. 
I. 
DATI!: 
31 Ja:uua 
2. 
MOIII HS EMl"L!IYEIE KAS 1111!:E"I 
U"IDUI MY SUPll!:RVISION 
5 
DATE 
J, 
COMMENTS 01' REVIEWING O"l'ICIAL. 
CEITI FICATIOM AND COMMENTS 
aY l!MJl'LOYH 
IP' THUi ltl:POltT HAS NOT 111:EN IHOWN TO ll!MPLOYKI!, GIVE l!XPLANATIOIII 
01",-ICIAI. TITLII 01' SUPl!RVISOII 
As Reviewing Official I am in full concurrence 
with the evaluation giv~n this employee as 
outlined above. 
DATE 
1 JANUARY 1968 
