[ 
) 
I 
sEcTroN 101. f URnY rnroRMANTs[AND coNFIDEIITIAL souRcEs 1 - -wn: 
b, Symbol number ,.,dex • 
(1) The same official as set out in la (1) above is to maintain 
the symbol number index, This index shall contain a card 
for each individual to whom a symbol number has been assigned,· 
(2) File cards numerically and any symbols which consist of 
fictitious names shall be filed alphabetically behind the 
numerical s_ymbol index. 
• o. The above indices ( alphabetical name index and symbol number index) 
shall not be available for review by Agents seeking informant help 
in connection with their cases, 
d. Where good reason exists for an Agent to obtain information .from 
either of these indices, it should be furnished by the official having 
custody of the cards. These indices should be used as a guide only; 
informant's file must be reviewed to determine s-pecific nature of his 
activities and type of information he furnishes, 
2. In~ex entitled "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions« 
3. 
a. 'A separate index may be maintained for the use of Agents on inform­
ants and sources in other divisions who may be available for assist­
ance. 
b. If such index is maintained, a separate index card is to be prepared 
on each informant and source that has been furnished. 
c. These cards should contain brief background data, together with the 
identity of the Bureau communication which contains the complete back-
ground da. ta, . .. 
d. File these cards alphabetically by name and symbol number. Duplicate 
cards may be prepared to be filed geographically and/or by subject 
matter. • • • 
Agents• informative index 
a. An Agents 1 informative index may be mai~tained by the same official 
as set out in la (1) above for the use of Agents on the type of 
informant coverage in the division. 
b. File these cards by geographical location, arranged alphabetically· 
by states, cities, subdivisions within cities, etc. 
o. Behind ea.ch geographical location there should be a guide ca.rd in­
dicating the type of information which can be furnished, such as 
Communist Party, Civil Rights Congress, Polish Activity, etc. 
d. On this guide card. set forth the symbol numbers of the informants 
and.confidential sources who can provide this coverage. 
',, e. Pot~ntial inforn1ants, confidential s011rces, :panel'' s 01.trces, and 
sources of information who do not have permanent symbols should 
••• • be set forth by name, • 
f. When an individual can provide more than one type of information, 
his symbol or identity l if a potential informant, confidential. 
source, panel source, or source of information without a perma­
nen·~ symbol) should be set forth on as many guide cards as he may 
provide types of information. . 
g.· These guide cards should[show]the above data and it is permissible• 
to place alongside the name or symbol number, as the case may be, 
th~ names of the contacting Agents to whom, request may be made 
. for a specific check with the individual, . . 
h_. Also, there may be set forth on these g11ide cards symbol numbers 
of informants who move outside a division and who still may be 
excellent sources regarding past acti-vities. They should be 
declassified from informants to confidential ·sources or sources 
of information. If r,ny such indivi,lual has moved from a division 
and is being utilized by the division to which he has moved and 
has received a symbol n"J.mber from the latter division, such desig­
nation should be indicated on the guide card. 
i. The names or symbol numbers, as the case•may be, of individuals 
cont~ined in the index entitled "Informants and Sources in Other 
Di--risions" who can be of assistance to your office may be set 
forth on the approp1•ia·l;e gui_de cards in tl}.ls index, 
~-,-... -1:·· 
C 
--"NW-3832-1-Docid;J29B952:9 
15 
2-12-60 
l. .; 
