( 
( 
( 
SECTION 107, .ECURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFID".I.AL SOURCES l07U 
U. PA1TEL SOURCES 
l. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Background investigation and approval 
a. Check prospective panelists through office indices, canvass logical 
informants, review appropriate credit, arrest, and military records. 
b. I~ no pertinent derogatory information is developed, initial coniact 
~ay be made with a prospective panelist to ascertain person's cooper­
ativeness; however, in regard to individuals associated with educational 
institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning investigations 
on campuses. 
c. Submit letter to Bureau requesting authority to us~ individual as ·a 
panel sourye and set out following information: .. • • • 
{1} Results of required background investigation and data as to date 
and place of b'irth, citizenship status if foreign born, residence 
and employment addresses 
(2) Details of expected area of activity of individual .as a panel 
source, together with results of any interviews conducted with him 
{3) .A statement to effect subJect is being consider.ed a panel source 
and that he will be advised he is not a Bureau employee and of 
confidential nature of his relationship with Bureau. In addition, 
a statement should be made t'hat you will be alert to b.e certain 
subject is not a pl~nt, and if he is connected with a labor union 
or educational institution he will be advised of Bureau policy 
on such matters. 
d. One of required copies of letter requesting authority to use a subject 
as a panel _source should consist only of first page of letter. If 
request is approved at.Bureau, a s~amped notation will be placed on 
single-page copy and it will be returned to field indicating that 
authority is granted to consider subject as a panel source. 
3 . .Administrative handling 
a. Handle notes, statements, and exhibits of panelists in same manner as 
9ther evidence, .As panelists may subsequently become security 
informants, same procedure should be followed in hand.'lirig, process.ing, 
and reporting data and material furnished by panelists as is afforded 
that received from security informants. 
b. Payments for legitimate expenses incurred and services rendered should 
be handled in same manner as payments to security informants. Gifts 
should not b~ given to panel sources since such actions might be 
misconstrued. 
c. Open 134 file when active investigation of prospective panelist is 
initiated • .After Bureau has approved a panelist, close file 
administratively if panelist is not contacted regularly. Regular 
contacts with panelists should be noted in their respective files. 
d. Only .Agents designated in particular case should contact panelists. 
e. Every six months submit letter of justification (FD-401) to Bureau 
requesting continuation of payments to panel source. See section 
130G, item 2b, of this manual for form of letter. If source is not 
being paid on Bureau authorization, .Agent handling source must prepare 
memorandum to SAC for file containing same certification as to sta­
bility and reliability as required by payment letters. 
f • .A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem exists or 
if typing would be saved. Use abbreviation "PS" before symbol number; 
e.g., PS NY 000-S. 
g. Designate, where ·practicable, coor.dinating Agent to maintain roster of 
current panel sources and current list of scheduled organization 
activities, who will notify Agents handling individual panelists of 
scheduled organizational functions to be covered. Coordinating .Agent 
receives notice of coming events from .Agents handling organization 
cases, security informants, and publications. 
h. Advise Bu1•eau of the date when panel source is discontinued, and tho 
reasons therefor. 
29 
10-13-69 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1311 \ 
j 
I 
i 
