[ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 [ 
• 
Secret - Working Paper 
Notes from Briefing of ARRB Staff on Stations 
(11 October 1995 - AR.RB conf. room) 
CIA Attendees: Bill McNair 
Lee Carle 
John. Goins 
Chuck Briggs 
Hal Bean 
Barry Harrelson 
Bill re Stations: 
No problem with release of COS, fact we have overseas 
locations, CIA representatives in specific countries -- the 
problem comes with officially acknowledging the stations 
thereby putting the host government and ·service in a 
position of explaining why it is allowing a foreign 
espionage unit to operate in the country. This may bec.ome a 
serious political issue for the government, especially in 
countries where the government does no~ acknowledge its own 
service .. Also can be perceived as "rubbing their nose in 
it" and can effect the trust between the Agericy and the host 
service (violated agreement of confidentially). 
Marwell pointed out that this information was 30 years old 
and ask what was the impact of acknowledging a station 
presence in 1963 on current operations or relitions. 
Bill responded "opened up old sores" and cited Rome and the 
sensitivity to our inv.olvement in past election. Mentioned 
the reaction to the announcement on covert actions by.DC!. 
Gunn ask if stations= liaison relationship; Bill said the 
other service can not say it did not.know the CIA was 
operation in its own country -- would look incompetent. 
Mary ask about changes in go~rnmentoJ;i.ill responded that 
inte;L);...-types tend to stay o)lfi or its,.revolving door where a 
good~ill be back in power at some point. 
Bill comments on specific stations 
It in:iportant to the story such as Mexico City and the 
surrounding stations which were involved in the cable 
exchanges re Oswald, then will release. 
"Don't take it away from us for little or no gain to the 
story", I.e. if not critical to the story let us protect. 
He indicated he could live with opening the stations for 
short windows if important to story, but also said it 
created a problem about protecting other activities in that 
window ~ 
Secret 
