know enough about the political attitudes of the members of the Frentc, 
p,:i.rticularly ;:1s to basic frccdorns, their attitude towc1.rd restoration 
of sei7:ed ,An1crican property, etc. (ln ans\ver to this, lv1r. Gray had 
pointed out that the Frente is composed of people who hc1.ve broken 
with Castro, at least on the basic philosophies.) 
In an attempt to clarify the situation with respect to the first 
point, Mr. Parrott told the Group about lz:.st Monday's n1eeting with 
Mr. Macy, at which lvir. Barnes had covered in considerable detail 
all aspects of the Cuban project. He said that he was at a loss to 
understand how Macy could have received the impression that CL'\. 
is not aware of dissident groups. He \-vent on to say that in ar,.swer 
to Mr. Macy's question as to the outlook, Mr. Barnes had stated -
and had developed at considerable length - the thesis that our view 
was one of li1nited optimism, and that he had explained in detail just 
why this is so; this explanation had included specific con1rnents on the 
steps that have been, and are being, taken to identify such groups and 
to assess their apparent leaders. lvir, Pavott said iur the r that the 
point had been made forcibly to Macy that it would be out of the question V 
for CIA to attempt to moW1t an invasion of Cuba by itself, without the 
participation of large numbers of disaffected individuals within the 
country. 
On the sec01:c! poir,t;, 1vfr. Dulles said th;-it we do know a eood 
deal about the basic political sympathies of Frente members, and 
cited as an example the position that had. been taken as to the inclusion 
of certa.in ultra-conservative groups. He said that the Frente had 
issued a statement of its aims, which he sumr:narized very broadly 
as being to preserve the principles of the revolution. He said that as 
to specific stands on restoration of U.S. property rights, etc., this 
was thought to be upwise because it would give the Frente t!1e appearance 
of being a tool of the Americans. He agreed, however,_ that Mr. Stans' 
point was a valid one to bear in mind and said we would certainly do 
so. He added that he expects to lunch with lvir. Stans in the near future 
and would take that opportW1ity to discuss these matters further, as 
appropriate. 
1v1r. Parrott said that there was no disagreement that the political 
ideas of tl1esc individuals must be constantly assessed and n1ust be 
clearly cst.:1blished before the operation actucilly comes off. He 
added, however, thcit it should be borne in 1nind Lhat once these 
polit1cally-screened individuals had issued their general r,tatement 
of objectives, our primary operational .t2.sk has been to hold the FRD 
together, and that at this particular stage it would not be practical 
-1 
f'j-;(' r' '..:'' ; /; :: 
::-ir WHiil ~::~•.JjL ~:i:-:·'.':. 
NW .50955 Docld: :3242:3566 Page 12:3 
-· 
