SECRET 
2. Bolivia - Station has been urging Bolivian government 
to adopt stricter travel controls·, without apparent results 
so far. Names of travellers known to have returned from Cuba 
are being furnished to the Bolivian government. Thus far, 
no action is known to have been taken by the Bolivian 
government on the strength of such information. Station comments 
that problem with Bolivia is not in lack of information 
available to government on Cuban subversion, but in getting 
Bolivia to do something about it. The station has also 
furnished considerable information, including some 
surreptitiously acquired documents, to the Ambassador for his 
use in urging Bolivian government action against Cuba. 
Considerable information is also being obtained through the 
interrogation of Peruvian guerrillas captured attempting to 
cross into Peru early in June. 
3. Brazil - Information on Brazilians who have received 
subversive training in Cuba has been made available to the 
National Security Council through CIA liaison with the 
NSC1 s Security Service. While the Brazilians have stated 
that the information ts "of interest," there is no firm 
indication to date that they have the capability or desire to 
really follow up on the information furnished. 
An asset of the CIA station in Rio is in a position 
to harass and delay Cuba-bound travellers in those instances 
where the station is able to tip him off regarding their 
destination. He can also harass returnees when informed in 
advance. The station is taking steps to get appropriate 
information to him promptly. The station has indicated that 
in spite of its increased efforts, there are no indications 
of any basic change in the Brazilian attitude toward Cuba,' 
and it is unlikely that the Brazilian government will take 
adequate steps to combat Cuban subversion. 
4. Chile - Chilean internal security authorities, at 
urging of station, are trying to impede and harass travellers 
to and from Cuba. Government is now requiring passport 
applicants to state destination, and passports must be turned 
in after travel. The Foreign Minister has stated much progress 
is being ·made, with cooperation of the Mexican government, and 
that +ravel of Chileans to Cuba has been dramatically reduced 
in recent weeks. Station and Embassy are continuing pressure 
on Cuban government in this regard. Names of travellers to 
Cuba are being passed to the Ambassador, who furnishes them 
to President Alessandri (who has asked that this collaboration 
be kept secret). Information_from CIA unilateral operations 
SECRET 
NW .~095.~ Docid: 32424015 Page 11-
