87D 
( 
[ 
T 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[. 
[ 
[ 
[ 
SECU1U'.l
1
Y INVESTit~ATil- ..• 
(i) Sub·jects missin:"5 or out of country may be recorrm1ended for 
the security index provided instructions set forth in 87D 
6b (3) and (4) are followed. Forms FD-122 submitted on 
subjects should.include data required in 87D 7b (6) (b) 
IV below. 
(j) [When form FD-122 is submitted recommending a securi·l;y index 
ca.rd be prepared on a subject who is o.f· Chinese extraction, 
the words nother - Chinesen ~ust be included in the space 
on the form calling for a statewent au to the subject's 
race. When form FD-1?.2 is submitted recomraending that a 
security index card be prepared on a person who is not of 
Chinese extraction but who has shown definite sympathies 
with ·com.rnunist China, the form should include under 
"I1isccllaneous" a statement to the effect "sympathet_ic to 
Communist China."] 
(k) Upon receipt of form FD-122 at Bureau, the case of the sub­
ject will be i:eviewed ·and if recommendation of field is 
concurred in, security index cards will be prepared. Dupli­
c:i.te copy of form will be returned. to ·office of origin stamped 
"Securi·ty Index card approved and prepared, three copies 
attached. PJ.: •:;e de~cription and photograph on reverse side 
of Geographic .. .!. card. Cards should be filed in your 
Security Index." The three cards shall be filed in security 
index as outlined below. The returned copy of FD-122 shall 
be placed. in subject's main investigative case file. 
-Offices with a geographical breakdown by res idehce ,snd 
employment will receive an exti·a card. 
(1) When security index cards are reqeived from 5ureau~ data 
there"on must be checked for accuracy. Cards .will be oom­
plete except for field office file number~ description, 
and photograph. Office file number should be placed on 
face of all cards. Descriptions and photographs are main­
tained on separate cards of similar size to security index 
cards whi9h are stapled to back of two of the cards. One 
oard will then be filed in the geographical section of 
office security index (except special section cards and 
unavailable section carcls - see 87D 7b (6) (b) III- and IV 
below), and one card shall be filed in the duplicate 
security index maintained away from headquarters city. 
The other card is filed in alphabetical section of security 
index. No 'information other than office file number shall 
be permanently added, deleted, or changed on face of security 
index card without complying with instructio~s set forth 
below under 87D 7b (8) 0 
(5) Content ani appearance of security index card 
(a.) -Data to appear on face of c2.rd 
When complete, face of security ind.ex card should contain 
the following information. If any of items ei!umerated in 
I through XIV are missing at time the security index card 
. :,;::'~·-: .is made, the case should be continu(~d as penc.int:r and invcsti­
ga.tion conducted to obtain the necessary in.for:::i,1tion. Set 
forth un~er each item bel-ow-are possible catagories in nhich 
subject may be classified, to&ether with cede letters ~hich 
should be placed in appropriate space on f6rm FD-122 when 
sending form to Bureau recomme~ding security index card ~e 
prepared. Code letters should subsequently appear on security 
index cti.rds received from Bureau. 
I. Name and aliases 
The full artd correct name and ~liases of the subject 
must be co!1ta.ined on the security index Cc.:i:·d.. When 
the. true r.a.o-:J.e of a s1lbject or any aliases ~re changed, 
a"dded, deleted, or arc four.d to be incorrec·t;., form 
FD-122 must be submitted reflecting tho co=rcct data 
to be placed on the security index card. 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 833 
'18 
10-13--58 
