13-00000 
27 August 1976 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiefs of Divisions ·and Staffs 
FROM Philip_ F. Fendig 
SA/D0/0 
SUBJECT Guidance for Interviews with House 
Appropriations Committee Staff 
REFERENCE DON 5-218, 4 August 1976 
1. You have been scheduled at the time indicated on 
the cover sheet of this memorandum for a briefing to be 
given to the five memb~rs of the Surveys and Investigations 
Staff team from. the House Appropriations Committee. The 
subjects which the team would like you to cover are contained 
in the memorandum distributed prior to the DDO staff meeting 
on 25 August 1976 and discussed at that meeting. I have 
explained to the Surveys and Investigations team that topic e 
(personnel policy and practices) will be discussed at a· 
separate briefing to be given by the Chief, Career Management 
Group. You should touch on the other topics suggested in the 
memorandum mentioned above. 
2. General guidelines are. contained in reference 
notice. The following·may be helpful, however, in preparing 
your briefing. Our general intention is to be as forth­
coming as possible while drawing the line clearly at any 
information which would lead to the identification of a 
specific source, intelligence method, cooperating person or 
group with which the.Agency has a relationship of confidence, 
or confidential matte~ involving a cooperating foreign 
intelligence service.· Thi fact of liaison with foreign 
services can in most cases be acknowledged, but details of 
the relationship and the subject matter of joint or shared 
operations should not be disclosed. 
3. In the briefing contemplated on management policies 
and practices, most of the above sensitive areas would not 
appear to arise, but you may find that questiorts will tend 
to bring out some more sensitive ~reas and these should be 
deferred with an agreement of looking into the possibility of' 
providing further information later. The staff has already 
had access to basic budgetary material, including funds and 
CON Fl DENTIAL 
