PA.RT II 
-SEC~IQN ·f?o·· _PUB~I9ATIOpiS~ • PRESS:, . .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
d. Eaoh insert should be fil-ed with the b,~}.letin ~-o which :i:t relates 0 
. No.indexing· of individual notices co:a.tained -therein is neoessary 0 
Eaoh off.ice must submit to the Bureau: ann.ually at leas·t three suggestions 
for articles, identifying the suggested author, and briefly describing 
the nature of the suggested article. Th& article should-not~be prep~red, 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be .. obtained,~. Suggestions may cover -any general or· speoii'io sub-
·Jeot. of ·law enforcement interest, including the following: • 
ao Better investigative or administrative ·methods· and techniques of 
any nature,· particularly .. those us.ed or ·developed •by FBI National 
Academy men • • - -
b. Improved or unusual equipment being used 
6,. • Complicated; unus·ual, and· we·11-handled ca-ses which are illustrative 
of law enforcement ·proble~s and eocoellerit police work 
d~ Human interest items from local police work-
, e. ~Police and firearms tra:i,ning subj'eots 
f O Crime prevention articles from departments' '.which have taken a.ggressi ve 
action to combat juvenile delinquency 
g 0 . ·Transmit··a.li'material···t:o: the Bureau under :the cfaption: 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research (Crime Records) 
Co SPEECHES 
lo Bureau is to be notified of all speaking engagements. Speaking engage­
ments are to be handled by the SAC. If he cannot handle them, the AS.A.C 
shouldo If neither oan, an .A.gent ·previously approved as a speaker is 
to be designated and the Bureau advised U.A.CB~ Changes in sp.eaking engage­
ments must be oommunica.ted promptly to the Bureauo Three weeks prio~ to 
any radio or television speech, a manuscript of the speech must be sub­
mitted for the Bureau's review and approval., In some ether oases involv­
ing impor·l;ant speeches not on ra,dio or television, the Bureau will 
specifically request such manusoriptso If speech is to be broadcast or 
televised$ prior Bureau approval of manuscript and commitment must be 
obtained. ~hese regulations 9 as well as all other FBI administrative 
prooed·ures ~ should not be the subject of comment to the public. 
2o Copy of Bureau letter approving speaker should be placed in his field 
personnel fileo 
3. Ea.oh office is to designate a supervisor to handle speech material. 
To this supervisor must be routed law enforcement bulletins, FBI Notes, 
interesting oase material, magazines, research literature, and newspaper 
clippings containing information of value to police instructors and 
approved speakers. This material to be indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in the speech material files. 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting oases may be: 
a. Requested by the ~ureau 
b. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
Oo Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
a. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d 0 Novel investigations of human interest 
3. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b~ Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
o, Title incli.:.des names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d, Accurately 
e, After a review of the entire file 
f, In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 347 
2 
9--30-60 
