, 
said that he wanted it understood that the closing down of the 
plants was not necessarily a permanent commitment and that 
whenever it became necessary or desirable, in .the absence 
of international agreement to the contrary, we should retain 
complete freedom of action to reopen a reactor any time we 
chose. This position was agreed. 
4. Mr. McNamara pointed out that he had been working 
steadily the last few days to get agreement in the Pentagon on 
a paper substantially in accord with this draft and that the only 
thing that now gave them a problem was subparagraph (c) on 
page 4 as to the establishment of nuclear-free zones. He said 
if this could be deleted, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the 
Department of Defense would buy the paper. Their concern 
was that we would get so involved in these zones that we would 
lose freedom of action to shift nuclear weapons through the 
Canal Zone, for example, or by air through overflights. 
Secretary Rusk pointed out that they had discussed this a num­
ber of times before, that it was nothing new, and that he would 
hope we could establish nuclear-free zones in Latin America 
and Africa• for example. The President sa'id that when the 
crunch came he depended on the Joint Chiefs of Staff and that 
he must have them on his side. Accordingly the paragraph on 
nuclear-free zones was eliminated. 
5. I then stated that the President should know that there 
was on record a letter from Mr. McCone pointing out some 
problem areas that could develop !1l a nwnber of these points, 
particularly as to our getting bac~nto a position of letting up 
on the need for full and adequate v~rification. I further said • 
that aside from the intelligence aspects of the problem, there 
were certain policy matters as regards reaction of West Germany, 
and particularly France, that should be considered. The President 
then asked for Mr. McCone's letter and glanced through it rather 
hurriedly. General Taylor asked to see the letter and he did the 
same. I then gave a copy to Secretary Rusk, particularly pointing 
out those portions of DCI's letter concerning his membership on 
the Committee of Principals and his reservations at the policy 
