13-00000 
COPY COPY COPY 
-3-
thing in the long-run would be better for the people and, 
of course, better for him as well. As I have already in­
dicated le was incredibly naive with regard to the Communist 
threat a:id cppeared to have no fear whatever that the Commu­
nists might eventually come to power in Cuba. He said that 
during the course of the revolution there had been occasions 
when the·Communists overplayed their hand and "my people put them 
in their place.II He implied that this would be the situation 
in the future in the event that the Communists tried to come 
to power. As a matter of fact, in his attitude toward Com-
• munism, both :internally and from an international standpoint, 
he sounded almost exactly like Sukarno had sounded to me 
when I visited Indonesia in 1953. In our discussions of 
Communism I again tried to cast the arguments in terms of 
his own self-interest and to point out that the revolution 
which q.e had led might • be turneq against him and the Cuban 
people unless he kept control of~: the situation and made sure 
that the Communists did not get into the positions of power 
and influence. On this scorer feel I made very li.ttle im­
pression, if any. 
Speaking to him from a personal standpoint I urged 
h;i.m. at the earliest possible moment to bring good strong • 
men into his· government and to delegate responsibilities to 
·them in the economic and other areas where he presently was 
making many decisions. I tried to point out that unless he 
did thisle would have a workload which would be so great that 
he could not provide the leadership and the vision· that the 
Cuban people needed for the great iss·ues. I put as much em­
phasis as possible on the need fo~ him to delegate responsi­
bility, but again whether I got across was· doubtful. 
It was apparent that while he paid lip servi_ce to 
such. institutions as freedom of speech, press and religi.on 
his primary- concerri was with developing programs for economi_c 
progress. He said over and over th.at a man who worked in 
the sugar cane fields for hhree months a year and starved 
the rest of the year wanted a job, something to eat, a house 
and some clothing and didn't care a whit about whether he had 
freedom along'Wi.th it. I of course tried to emphasize that 
here again a~ a leader of his people, he should try to de­
velop support for policies which could assure economic pr<;>­
gress with freedom rather than without it. 
COPY COPY COi?X 
1 ll n 
