On 1 October 1964, Morse Allen wrote a rnemoiandum 
• for the record reporting an interview ~ith Wiley as follows: 
"On 30 September 1964, the writer talked with Wiley 
at the writer 1 s a~artrnent in Washington, D.C., for several 
hours. The conversation was general and part of it was 
devoted to the discussion of financial matters, routine 
operational problems, and comments primarily on the local 
New York scene. 
"Of particular interest, however, in addition to the 
above, were the following: 
''(a) Earl Browder - After discussing Wiley's connections 
with Browder, the writer directed that Wiley interview 
Browder as soon as possible and discuss with him the 
recent deaths of Togliatti, Thorez, Elizabeth Gurley 
Flynn and find out what significance, if any, Browder 
makes of these matters. SRS recently had information 
that Browder had given some information of intelligence 
value to an Englisi.1. \~riter and it was felt that it 
would be of interest to reopen Wiley's connections 
0
IL;_;_:. ::::::rc:;2.::-. 1•!il~~r ~·-'.?': Psl:-~a to stress the Togliatti 
paper. 
''(h) Malcolm X - Wiley had previously interviewed 
Malcolm X (Malcolm Little) before the farmer's recent 
trip to Egypt and Africa and the Middle East. The 
writer requested Wiley, at his earliest possible con­
venience, to reinterview Malcolm X, particularly stress­
ing Malcolm X's views of individuals with whom he had 
talked and any personalities of information which could 
be of intelligence use. It should be noted that Wiley 
regards Malcolm X as probably the shrewdest of the 
Negro leaders and according to Wiley, Malcolm X talks 
freely to him because Wiley and Malcolm X have an 
under~tanding not to mince words or to be evasive 
when they are talking. 
"(c) Communist Youth Festival, Algiers, July (?) 1965 -
It should be noted that Wiley has spearheaded anti­
Communist attacks on Youth Festivals in Vienna and in 
Helsinki previously, has disrupted their prograras, and 
i-ROM -87-
SEP '·'0 1975:, 
c-c r r:n:T r 
\._:• ; __ \J ! \ L \ i' 
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 75 
