DE 157-3075 
The Association of Black students, Oakland 
University, Rochester, 1•1ichigan, sponsored a rally in 
support of the Detroit 16 on November 16, 1970, featuring 
HUEY P. !JEWTON. 
The main theme of the speech given by HUEY P. 
NEWTOi{ on November 16, 1970, at Oakland University, was that 
all poor blacks and poor whites, the working classes, the 
oppressed of the ·world, must all join· forces as a united 
body against the 11ruling circle" in the United Stai;:es. 
NEWTO:·l repeatedly referred .to this II ruling circle 11 through­
out his entire speech and a::i~arently interpreted thj.s II ruling 
circle 11 as those leaders of Governr:1ent and industry, the 
i:nperialists or those who are rich in this society. NENTON 
wanted eq11ality fo:::- everyone ·with no one being superior to 
his fellow man. He indicated the Hegro is a class brother 
with the poor whites and they must join in their effort to 
overcome the II ruling circle. 11 . 
NEWTON stated,"The Black Panther Party is the 
vanguard of the revolution on a world-wide level because the 
world is really one conu-uunity and wc 1 ve taken·Harxist-Leninist 
to a greater level ··:ana, therefore, ·we are the greatest 
!vlarxist-Le!'linists that ~ver lived, .and we ·say this not to 
be arrooant because some times I wish that soraeone else 
would c~rry that banner because the way· is narrow and the 
burden is heavyo II 
In conclusion, the speech by NEWTON was a rar,l.bling, 
many times incoherent ?--larxist-Leninist influenced, low-key 
revolutionary type spBech which attenpted to show a connection 
. between the :S:?? and the League of Revolutionar:{ Black Workers 
(LRBH),, as well as a unity between the BPP and all oppressed 
persons of the world. 
A characterization of the LRBW is contained 
in the app~ndix pages attached hereto. 
His s~eech called for the release of the Detroit 16, 
freedo;;1 for ..,,'\NGELA Dl~VIS, BO3BY SEAL:S, and all the oppressed 
brothers and for the ulti:nate overthrow of the pigs. 
63 
