SECRET - SENSITIVE 
Other files are maintained concerning the Soviet Embassy. CIA's position 
on this matter is that this is a State case which the Agency is running on 
behalf of State. 
There is also a file on Vescc:>jheld by the CI Staff. The Agency became 
involved in this situation because John Dean of the White House called and 
stated that(:president Nixon's brother had obtained a joqJ.vith IOS. He 
wanted to know what IOS was all about. CIA, in fact, had a file on IOS, 
because it was known that the Soviets had been attempting to penetrate that 
institution as a vehicle for getting agents into this country or at least. 
allowing them to learn of ec~omic matters relating to the United States. 
Stein said that, at one point,·. Vesco 1;J1awyer called to say that he wanted 
"• ~ ------ ...., 
to have an account of everything which had been said about yesco_!over 
South American radio channels. The Agency refused this _request, stating 
that it was beyond its charter. 
(c) Defectors 
There are four sorts of defectors handled by the CI Staff. The first 
group are those under low level cover which are being used to scan Soviet 
publications and to extract anything relating to Soviet intelligence which 
they, in light of their expertise, may recognize. The second group of 
defectors are those with "talents". This group are form> r KGB agents 
who, as a result, have special knowledge. [fhey may be used from time 
to._time to go and talk with (either in the U_nited States or abroad) USS~ 
citi~e~_tl Another sort of defector is one from[S~«cc;:.l}q:~1ov_aki{J This 
particular person is highly knowledgable in Maxist-Leninist matters. 
Accordingly, he is used to write propaganda which is disseminated abroad. 
The last category of defectors are those who are no longer in regular 
contact with the agent. These particular persons are seen from time to 
time for some particular reason which could simply be an administrative 
matter concerning ttieir pensions, etc. 
The . CI Staff also maintains a file on defectors from lun.eerica 
to some other country (such as the Soviet Union, Cuba and others). 
These names are recorded because the persons involved may eventually 
end up in the United States once again or in some country other than the 
Soviet Bloc. This would not necessarily mean that that person is a spy, 
but it does mean that he would be of counteT-intelligence interest, At 
approximately the time of the Kennedy assassination the Secret Service 
and the FBI became particularly interested in potential defectors from 
SECRET - SENSITIVE 
6 
Hlf 50955 Docld:32105622 Page 7 
