) 
c. 
)· 
f. Copies 
INVESTIGATIONS OF 
ORGANIZATIONS AND 
' ,-.~, 
SUBVER~- , 
INDIVIDUALS 
• • 87B - C 
Furnish 5 copies of reports and LHMs except where instructed other­
wise in individual cases. 
g. Closing of case 
If it is determined subject organization is not currently engaged in 
su~versive activities, submit pertinent facts in closin~ report. 
INVESTIGATION OF INDIVIDUALS 
1. General policy 
-a. Purpose 
To develop evidence of any violations of the statutes enumerated 
in A. 1. above and keep the Department and other agencies and officials 
of Executive Branch advised of information developed which pertains 
to their areas of responsibility and interest. 
b. Individuals to be investigated 
I~vestigations should be conducted to fully identify and determine 
the activities and affiliations of persons who: 
Are reported to be engaged in activities which may result in a violation 
of statutes enumerated in A. 1. above. This includes individuals who 
are current active members of subversive organization or movement. 
·:·~} Where formal membership in a subversive movement does not exist, it 
includes individuals who are actively supporting the subversive goals 
of the movement. 
Priority investigative attention should be given to individuals who 
are kno~m or suspected of being involved in subversive activities 
which are of a clandestine, underground, or violent nature. 
c. Limitations on investigations 
All investigations conducted shouid avoid nebuious or sweeping inqu1n.es 
which are not relevant to objectives. Under no circumstances shou·1d 
an investigation be conducted of any individual merely on the basis 
that such individual supports unpopular causes or opposes Government 
policies. • 
d. • Investigations requiring FBIHQ approval 
Obtain FBIHQ approval for investigation of: 
(1) . U. s. Government .employee . . ~ ·: 
(2) Officials or employees of United Nations or other public 
international organizations of a governmental or quasi-
governmental nature. __ 
•• {3) Officials or employees of foreign diplomatic establishments· 
or governments, or foreign exchange participants (representatives 
_of foreign countries who are i~ u. S. as part of official 
• exchange program). · . : 
(4) Faculty members of institutions of learning. 
FBIHQ approval is not required for investigation of student or 
nonacademic employees of institutions .of learning in the absence 
of unusual circumstances. If during a pending investigation it 
is discovered that the subject fits one of above categories, 
suspend active investigation and advise FBIHQ with recommendation 
as to further action. 
e. Members of United States armed forces 
No investigation should be conducted of active[members of u. S. 
military forces or retirees from the "regular" components of the 
anned forces who are subject to Article 2 of the Unif,);:m Code of 
. _Military Justice and over whom the military retains control (re­
tirees· from military reserve forces are not subject to the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice)o] If it is determined that a subject fits 
in this category, terminate investigation and promptly furnish per­
tinent data to appropriate counterintelligence branch of u. s. 
armed forces. -Advise FBIHQ in form suitable for dissemination. 
1837 
9 
12-13-73 
• I 
, I 
l I 
