.. 
... 
Volume XVIII continued 
?age 2 
SECRET 
6. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 28 June 1966 
Source: Q.'J.alified. l,merican Observer 
Betsy palmer 
On 15 June l;:60, Rai'ael Garcia-j]a.UGO, Cuban exile :;.n Spain, recei Yed. call in 
Madrid from Ray in P.R. regarding Ray's plans to assume power in cu·:Ja, 
Garcia-Bango told Ray it was essential he come Mad.red. bei'ore 25 June 
and return to San Juan in order to talk to a member of Cuban delegation for 
10th Caribbean and CenAm gaI:les in P.R., prior to return of delegation to Cuba. 
Ray agreed to do so. 
Ray enthusiastic over possibility of overthrowing Castro in next several 
months. Knows Garcia-Bango has bad reputation but feels he could prove 
use:f'ul. Also use:f'ul would be Garcia-Bango's brother, Jorge Garcia-Bango 
Dirube, who has more respectable reputation. Ray also state that he had 
received. indirectly a message from Jose Llanusa Gobel and considers him 
a potential ally. 
7. Harry Mahoney debriefs Ray, described. in Memo for the Record dtd 
8 July 1966. Mentions Julian Gallo at this time and Ray indicates he 
knows and respects him . 
8. Memo No. 771, 1 Sept 1966 for: Chief, OPS Cuba/WH Division/DDP 
Attn: ?,tr. Harry Mahoney, Subject: MIG-21. Attaching communication 
from DIA authorizing tJ.00,000 should MIG-21 operation succeed. Funds 
to come from Air Force escrow fund now held by CIA. 
(Note: Other memos refer to MIG which Ray said he knew a Cuban pilot 
·.rould fly out of Cuba. Ray never comes through with any information 
that is usable, and finally says he cannot contact pilot) 
9, Cable dtd J!, Jan 69 CITE WR/Mia.mi 2233 
Ref :LcaS:-ic'irs]J-490 
l\MOT reports on 9 Aug 68 indicating Ray plans to dissolve JURE and hold a 
Congress of Cuban exiles in 1969 to create a new orga...'1ization to fight 
Castro. Ray working with Haitian groups and hopes, if new invasion of 
Haiti success:f'ul, he will be granted OJ?erational bases and radio station 
in Haiti. 
10. Memo dtd Feb. 8, 1971 to Director, FBI from DD/P indicates that CIA 
h1as no current operational interest in Manuel Ray Rivero. 
SECRET 
