·----- Sf&Rft 
Miscellaneous documents no in files 
Page 3 
8. Information Report - Guba/Dominican Republic 
Betsy Palmer 
SUbject: Purchase of a Boston Whaler for Manuel Ray Rivero, 
Leader of the J\mta Revolucionaria CU.bana (JURE) 
Date: 18 Septemver 1964 
Source: Naturalized American citizen - formerly in shipping business 
in Guba, well-trained and experienced debriefer 
On 14 Sept 1964, a Mia.mi yacht builder firm pur~hased a 13-foot six inch 
Boston whaler for Ray. Purchaser, Angel Aixa.la. Pertierra said he planned 
to go to ...Santo Domingo to get permission to operate the whaler in Dominican 
waters, and once this bad been granted., would deliver the boat to Ray. 
It was on Aixala's Catamaran ct 1208 D, that Ray made his ill-fated initial 
attempt to enter Guba. Aixala. is not a. member of JURE. 
Classified Message to Director, from Paris 
Date: 8 JUne 1963 
Ray aIJd Emio Guede a.i;,;-ived in Paris and Ray contacted by Nauman on 7 June. 
Reviewed plan for Wranqw recruitment in place. Urged Ray to take 
immediate a,c;:ti9n before his presence in ·Paris was leaked. , Guede tries C.'.:, 
to contact. ·'fra.nqui _by phone and on all occasions, phone answered by r~i'th 
... · Sorel• or her· roomate, Helene ~~s~ (phonetic L •1 Guede leaves message wach 
time and on last call toJd.a-franqltj.'.going to Brussels and may have already 
left. On 7 .Jv.ne Guede ~ees '.: Franqui' at the . opening of. his exhibition and 
talks to himi., frra.nqu:;~_":isteiied ~ r.'1:un, bt;t made no responses to his 
veiled overatuies. Guea.e surmizes t;_F,ranq~;0 :iot interested -- thinks he is 
incapable of defending regime but not wiil:1.ng or capable of brea.ld.ng With 
it. Grovery and JEfr.lAY met Ray. Feel this important re possible future 
use Ray Europe. Pari support excellent. .( c/s collllIJ_•:mt: HQ3 has reason 
believe no obstacle convincing Ray push for f f'"ranqttl}return for period to be 
eyes and ears anti-Castro conspiracy. ) "-· • ' -
* 10. Cable Report to Director, from Paris 
Date: 14 JUne 1963 
Ray and party travel to Eigssels on 11 June, and Ray continues his efforts 
to recruit an a.gent in place for CIA. Contacts Guillamo Cabrera and 
surmised Cabrera held back from a break due to his concern for a brother 
inside who is ill. Ray asks Cabrera to arrange a meeting with Gustave Arcos 
but Cabrera. unable to do so since Arcost~~ffjt leaving• for a few days. Ray 
e~nd.s his trip. Contacts Nauman who tells ltay it is not possible to 
resolve all the personal problems of those he has contacted and Ray must 
show them the wisdom and practicality of working in place as a means of 
~Jiro1nating the reg:fJne. Ray willing to settle for defection as he believes 
this has an impact on the regime. Report states that Ray extremel.y active, 
moves fast and purpose:f'ull.¥, and has given impression of :f';t-ank cooperation. 
Has volunteered to assign a man to be station contact, but feels(~LE 2 
is too young but should be aware of whomever is designated. 04:2... 
S£CR"ET 
