• tA• 
) f 
! ( 
f 
) 
GENERAL GUIDELINES 
--~ 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUDVERlfl 
ORGJ\NIZATIONS AND INDIVI u1LS 
1. Investigative jurisdiction 
87A 
FBI investigations under this section are based on specific statutory 
jurisdiction and Departmental instructions. 
Investigations conducted under this section are to be directed to the 
gathering of material pertinent to a determination whether or not the 
subject has violated, or is engaged in activities which may result in 
a violation of, one or more of the statutes enumerated below; or in 
fulfillment of Departmental instructions. 
There are three principal statutes which provide a basis f o•r these 
investigations, as follows: 
a; Rebellion or insurrection (T18, use§ 2383). 
"Whoever incites, sets on foot, assists, or engage·s in any rebellion 
or insurrection against the authority of the United States or the 
laws thereof, or gives aid or comfort thereto, shall be fined not 
more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; 
and shall be incapable of holding any office under the United States." 
b. Seditious conspiracy (T18, use § 2384). • • 
"If two or more persons in any State or Territory, or in any place 
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, conspire to over­
throw, put down, or to destroy by force· the Government of the. 
United States, or to levy war against them, or to oppose by force 
the authority thereof, or by force to prevent, hinder, or delay the 
execution of any law of the United States, or by force to seize, take, 
or possess any property of the United States contrary to the authority 
thereof, they shall each be fined not more than $20,000 or imprisoned 
not more than twenty years, or both. 11 
c. Advocating the overthrow of the Government (T18, USC§ 2385). 
11~n1oever knowingly or willfully advocates, abets, advises, or teaches 
the duty, necessity, desirability, or propriety of overthrowing or 
destroying the government of the United States or the government of 
any State, Te.rri tory, District or Possession thereof, or the 
government of any political subdivision therein, by force or 
violence, or by the assassination of any officer of any such 
government; or 
"Whoever, with intent to cause the overthrow or destruction of any 
such government, prints, publishes, edits, issues, circulates, sells, 
distributes, or publicly displays any written or printed matter 
advocating, advising, or teaching the duty, necessity, desirability, 
or propriety of overthrowing or destroying any government in the 
United States by force or violence, or attempts to do so; or 
"Whoever organizes or helps or attempts to organize any society, 
group, or. assembly of persons who teach, advocate, or encourage the 
overthrow or destruction of any such government by force or violence; 
or becomes or is a member of, or affiliates with, any such society, 
.group, or assembly of persons, knowing the purposes thereof--
"Shall be fined not more than $20,000 or imprisoned not more than 
twenty years, or both, and shall b~ ineligible for employment by 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page· HIM 
3 
6-6-73 
