13.QQOOO 
·- ffl".f~Wf~*~-.~•~:.;•$~4~5~~-?t~!f{:i:',12~~, ___ ,·;~r;~~'1:·-"":~~~~~f~~~~1'1 • 
·_ : • • '. _,. :.·· :FINAL REPORtOF THE'AssASSI~ATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD • • • ··,-(;;~ 
marginally relevant records, but would not 
require agencies to present the same amount 
of eviden~e in support of postponements. 
The regulations that the Review Board 
adopted on November 13, 1996, define "Seg­
regated Collections" to include the following: 
(1) FBI records that were requested by the 
HSCA in conjunction with its investigation 
into the assassination of President Kennedy, 
the Church Committee in conjunction with 
its inquiry _into issues relating to the Kennedy 
assassination, and the Pike Committee and 
Rockefeller Commission that investigated 
issues related to the assassination; (2) CIA 
records including the CIA' s segregated col­
lection of 63 boxes as well -as one box of 
microfilm records (box 64) and several boxes 
of CIA staff "working files." The Review 
Board adopted revised guidelines on April 
23, 1997 4t an attempt to streamline the 
review process of postponements in the seg­
regated collections, and ensure a page-by­
page review of all documents in the segre­
gated collections. The guidelines state, 
" ... even with the assumption that our oper­
ations may be extended through Fiscal Year 
1998, the Review Board cannot hope to com­
plete review of postponements in the Segre­
gated Collections under the current method 
of review." Where the Review Board's stan­
dards differed between core files and segre­
gated collection files, the guidelines set forth 
below note the distinction. 
Thus, throughout its tenure, the Review 
Board sought to be vigorous in applying the 
law, but, in order to complete its work, found 
it necessary to employ a "rule of reason." 
2. Intelligence Agents 
Text of Section 6(1)(A) 
... clear and convincing evidence that the 
threat to the military defense, intelligence 
operations, or conduct of foreign relations of 
the United States posed by the public disclo­
sure of the assassination record is of such 
gravity that it outweighs the public interest, . 
and such public disclosure would reveal-
(A) an intelligence agent whose identity 
currently requires protection ... 
48 
a. CIA officers. 
i. Review Board guidelines. The Review 
Board usually protected the names of CIA 
officers who are still active or who retired 
under cover and are now living in potentially 
risky circumstances. The Review Board usu­
ally released names of deceased CIA officers 
and the names of CIA officers whose connec­
tion to the CIA was public knowledge. When 
the Review Board postponed names, it usu­
ally substituted the phrase, "CIA Employee." 
ii. Commentary. Names of numerous CIA 
officers appeared in the CIA' s assassination 
records. The Review Board and the CIA had 
to confront the challenge presented by the 
statute, which requires name-specific evi­
dence, but gathering such evidence proved to 
be time-consuming and burdensQme for the 
CIA and the names of CIA officers in the 
records were not always rel~vant to the 
assassination. The statute, of course, states 
that the only way that the Review Board 
could protect names of intelligence agents 
was if the CIA provided clear and convincing 
evidence that the CIA officer's identity "cur­
rently" required protection. 
The CIA initially believed that the solution to 
the above-referenced challenge was for the 
Review Board to agree with CIA that the 
names of all CIA officers within the JFK Col­
lection should be postponed until the year 
2017. The CIA supported its request for blan­
ket postponements with two arguments: first, 
since many CIA employees are "under 
cover," CIA argued that its int~lligence gath­
ering capability depended on employees 
maintaining cover, and, second, even though 
the majority of CIA officer names in the Col­
lection are names of retired CIA employees, 
CIA is bound by a confidentiality agreement 
to protect the relationship. Many of these for­
mer employees objected to release of their 
former Agency affiliation, complaining that it 
violates this agreement and suggesting that 
such release might jeopardize business rela­
tionships or threaten personal safety. 
Mindful of the JFK Act's requirement that 
agencies provide name-specific evidence, the 
Review Board would not agree to CIA's 
request for blanket postponements of CIA 
names. Instead, the Review Board requested 
CIA to provide evidence for each name. 
'··· 
.· -.};•+ 
