; g;:uQl#jWU tztM.±~Si-,-
.,. /""- S-E-C-R-E--1' , , 
NQ. FOREIGN DISSEM/NO Dl"'-~EM ABROAD/CO~"TROLLED DISSE\i/BACKGROUND USE ONLY 
- 3 - CSDB--3/652, 924 
\ .. -·:· 
Buenos Aires. But it is an extremely remote possibility. The.: 
countries which could do it do not have the necessary material 
means. A partial solution would worsen the situation and a 
definitive solution could be directed only by Washirigtod. I 
think therefore that only pressure which is accompanied by· 
material strength can obtain results in Cuba. 
In conclusion, in judging the Cuban situation it is . 
necessary first to keep in mind the personality and temp~rament 
of Fidel Castro,· the influence which he has on a part of the 
population, and finally his deep-rooted hate of the United 
States.• It is useless to say that the Cuban revolutionary 
·regime, purged of some fanaticism, could be a good example 
·for other Latin American countries. This would not take into 
account the mentality of the Cuban leaders and particularly 
• their; chief, . who accepts c ounc i 1 from no an e and in tends to 
imitat~ no one. Furthermore it is too late to select another 
path. As Guevara said the other day in in interview for th~ 
Daily Worker, "this is a battle to the death with the United 
States in which the most. possible damage must be done to the,-:_: 
adversary.'.' 
Undoubtedly, after the events of October and No~ember, 
Fidel Castro is in a descending parabola. But how long this· 
descent will last no one can say today~ The only cert~in 
thing is that the economic situation is getting worse every 
day and therefore the revolutionary regime needs the . • • 
assistance of the whole Gorn ... 7llunist world. Only last night 
a ~ommercial mission headed by Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, who 
.heads the most important institution of thP. country - the. 
Institute for Agrarian Reform - left.· The mission will go 
, first to Moscow and then to Peiping. It is evident that 
• new agreements must be negotiated, as well as new credits, 
to permit the Cubans to last through 1963, which will cer­
tainly be the most difficult year. 
But economic assistance can permit this country to 
survive, not resolve its problems. For a definitive solu-
tion it would be necessary in the first place for the Cubans 
to learn to work seriously and to use intelligently the 
machines which they have. Agricultural production, princi­
pally sugar cane, as has been recognized even by the. 
fanatics of industrialization, constitutes the basis of 
the Cuban economy. But how can they hope for a good 
harvest if, for ex.ample, the tractors furnished by Hungary 
which should last ten years are tinusable after two Years? 
It is not possible ~o forecast the_ fall of the regime 
solely 9n the basis bf economic factors. The ~eople suffer 
·from an insufficiency of food and clothing.· But' for another 
year, they will find a., way to get by. 
Surrtmed up, the decisive and at the same time prudent 
policy.followed by the United States in the recent months 
is the best and perhaps the only policy. After the danger 
of strategic weapons has. been eliminated, the wisest measure 
is to let the situation mature. Certainly Fidel C2stro will 
S:-E-C-R-E-'f 
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO_DISSEM ABROAP/CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY 
NW 50955 Docld:32276061 Page 123 
