87D 
[ 
( 
[ 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 
II. Wnenever reports relating to security index subjects 
contain data affecting material included on subject's 
existing security index card, the cover pages 
accompanying the report shall include as the last page 
form FD-305, appropriately ch~cked, which form contains 
items pertaining to the following: • 
(A) That subject is included in th~ security index 
{B) That data appearing on security index card is 
(c) 
(.D) 
( E) 
current or requires change 
That FD-122 has been submitted to Bureau where 
security index card changes are necessary . 
That a suitable photograph is or is not available 
That consideration ha~ been glven to the use of 
T symbols 
{F) That subject is employed in a key facility and that 
agencies interested in that facility are specified 
(G) Reason for cl~ssifying report 
(H) [Dates subject was previously interviewed and] 
reason for not reinterviewing·subject 
(I) That subject no longer meets security i,ndex 
criteria and a lctt6r has been direryted to the 
Bureau recommending cancellation of the secu1·i ty 
index c?.rd 
(J) That subj~ct•s case has been re-evaluated and reasons 
a.re set forth as to why subject•s a~tivities continue 
to fall within security in9-ex criteria· 
{K) T~at subject's securit~ index card is or is not 
tabbed detcom and that[su3ject 1 s]activities do or do 
not warrant detcom tabbing 
{b) Documentation of reports 
I. Deleted 
II. If information necessary for complete documentation 
is not available in subject's case file, necessary 
review of other office files should be made. If 
not obtainable, this fact must be indicated in the 
cover page(s) accompanying report to the Bureau. 
·III~ Extensive investigation should not be conducted to 
fu~ther identify and locate outside individuals who 
have in the past furnished background information 
or to obtain documentary evidenr.:e of background 
information. For example, if previous investigntion 
[revealed]that subject, accordin~ to reliable records, 
such as birth records, school records, or records of 
the Immigration and Naturalizati.on Service, w:?,s born 
at a certain place ~n a cer~ain aate, such information 
will.be sufficient for inclusion in report. Further 
verification will not be necessary. 
IV. During the prepar2.tion of summary reports it i::i o·ften 
found that information being incorpo-rs.ted into a re-
881 
port was originally ob·l;ained b_y another office and all 
of the necessary information for complete documentation 
wlll not be in the possession of the office propnring 
the report. In such an instance, if the office pre­
paring the report is in possession of Photostatd of 
do-:uments ·obtained by the other offices and the identity 
78 
7-15-60 
