CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505 
General Counsel 
David G. Marwell 
Executive Director 
ASsassination Records Review Board 
600 E Street N.W., 2nd Floor 
Washington D.C. 20530 
Dear Mr. Ma.rwell: 
9 December 1996 
The Director of Central Intelligence has forwarded to 
me your 27 November 1996 letter for response. I commend the 
efforts of the Review Board and its staff .in reviewing and 
releasing hundreds of thousands of united States Government 
documents for greater public understanding about the 
assassination of President Kennedy. I also confirm the 
Central Intelligence Agency's commitment to continue working 
closely with the Review Board in carrying out its statutory 
authorities. 
With regard to the requests made in your letter, I 
understand the Review Board's desire to demonstrate to the 
public that it has carried out its duties thoroughly and 
diligently. You have requested that en appoint an Agency 
Compliance Official to be responsible for ensuring CIA's 
comp1iance with its obligations under the JFK Act. The DCI 
has full confidence in Mr. John Pereira as Chief of the 
Historical Review Group (HRG) and has determined that Mr. 
Pereira will continue to act as .the CIA official responsible 
for ensuring full compliance with the JFK Act and will 
remain the Agency's focal point with the Review Board. 
You have also requested that CIA provide an Initial 
Statement of Compliance. Mr. Pereira and Mr. :Barry 
Harrelson, the senior review officer for.HRG, as well as the 
rest of the HRG staff, have always.been ava,ilable eo you 
without restriction. The Review Board and your staff have 
been provided access to any relevant documents or 
information you have requested. As you know, the Review 
Board was fully informed as to the steps CIA took to 
designaee Agency records as part of the President Kennedy 
collection. HRG has also arranged for multiple briefings by 
senior CIA officials from a wide variety of.CIA components 
so that the Review Board can better understand the 
information it is reviewing. Given the current effective 
relationship between HRG and your staff, should you require 
additional assurances of this Agency's compliance with the 
JFK Act, I suggest that you contact Messrs. Pereira and 
P.2.1'4 
( 
