1, 
COMMITTEE TO END U. S. FOREIGN INTERVENTION, aka 
C0nmittee to End .u. S. Foreign Aggressicn, 
Co~mittee to End American InterveP-tion in 
Viet-N2m (Ad Hoc), 
Ccmmittee to End United States Intervention 
in Viet-Nam (Ad Hoc), 
Committee to End United States Imperialism 
This Committee was organized as the Committee to End 
American Intervention in Viet-Nam (Ad Hoc), March 29, 1954, in 
San Francisco, California, at the instigation of and by members 
cf the ,,J.E.B. DuBois Club of San Francisco, a M2.rxist youth group, 
which has promoted the organization's activities a.J!lonr:; the various 
groups in the Sc>.n Francisco a.rea interested in peace and disarma­
ment. Its announced aims have included American withdrawal from 
Viet-Nam, self-determination for the South Viet-Hamese people and 
adherence of the United States to the 1954 Geneva Convention. 
Demonstrations along with the distribution of ancl. exhibition of 
-propag2.nda. comurise its program. A flyer advertising a forum of 
September 15, 196 4, in San Francisco on "v.Jorld Wide Movements--
for Freedorr.." referred to "Cuba - Harlem - Congo - Viet Nam" and 
listed the Committee to End U. S. Foreign Intervention as sponsor. 
One of the tw-:> sources which provided the information on the 
Committee's crganization has advised that it is the same committee. 
According to this source, on October 9, 1964, this Committee's 
proper name is "Committee to End U. S. Foreign Aggression," but it 
is a loose-knit organization and exactness of title or name is of 
little concern to the officials and members. The other source 
advised on June 28, 1964, thc=>.t an Executive Committee of five 
members was elected in June, 1964, but no new officers were other­
wise elected. 
Another source advised on September 17, 1964, that the 
original officers were JOHN W. THOMAS, Chairman; BEVERLY D. 
RADCLIFFE, Treasurer, anct MARGAFET DRIGGS, Secretary. The 
signatuy,e of two of these are still required for checks written. 
One source mentioned above currently advises that no 
headquarters is maintained by the Committee; meetings are infrequent 1. 
and poorly attended, ranging from eight to twenty members. The last 
reported membership total was approximately twenty in June, 196.4. 
APPE:rnrx 
349 
13 
NW 38613 Docld:34528578 77 
