13-00000 
, . 
• 
our agents are putting in ·an average of over 2 hours overtime a day voluntarily,· ) 
the loan of 139 men will be felt. } 
Representative Foan. 169. 1 
Mr. BELMONT. I believe it was.139, sir. I think the letter says 139. I 
Mr. STERN. 139 on 16 separate occasions. 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes. I do not wish to overplay this. We are not complaining. 
We do feel that at such time as Secret Service ls able to increase its per-
sonnet or meet this problem within the organization that it is properly their 
problem. But meanwhile we are following this procedure and we are not 
complaining. . 
·Mr. DULLES. I had hoped, Mr. Chairman, that at some time while Mr. Belmont 
was here, we could ask him to just brief:i.y define for us, going back to the assassi­
nation day, a clear definition of the respective functions of the FBI and the 
Secret Service prior to and immediately after the assassination. There seemed 
to have been at one time a little confusion there. Naturally in a situation of this 
kind it always happens, but I am not absolutely clear in my mind as t~ 
Mr. BELMONT. At the time of the assassination? 
Mr. DULLES. Yes. Just before, I mean what your responsibilities were just 
before the assassination, and just· after as contrasted with the functions of the 
Secret Service. 
Mr. BELMONT. The Secret Service· has the- responsibility for protecting the 
President and his family, and the Vice Presid~nt and so on. That is a basic 
responsibility. 
Mr. DULLES. And you have no auxiliary function to that-· -
Mr. BELMONT. No, sir. 
Mr. DULLES. Except to furnish names and suspects, as you have indicated. 
Mr. BELMONT. That is correct. We have no function there. That is a primary 
responsibility and function of Secret Service. 
Now, we do have what we have considered our responsibility, to furnish to 
Secret Service any indication of a threat to the President, and that we have 
· done religiously. 
After the assassination the President ordered us into an investigation of the 
assassination which changed the picture as far as this pai;ticular case was 
concerned.· 
Mr. DULLES. You mean President Johnson, immediately after the assassina­
tion? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes, sir. 
Mr. DULLES. And there was a period there, there was a period though, after 
the assassination and before President J'ohnson·took the oath of office-did this 
order come to you during that period or after he had taken the oath of office? 
Mr. ·BELMONT. It was very rapid, probably within a day. 
Mr. DULLES. I see. It wasn't immediately after. 
Mr. BELMONT. No. 
Mr. DULLES. 'It wasn't this period I am speaking of. 
Mr. BELMONT .. You see, Mr. Dulles, the Federal Government still has no juris­
diction over tlie assassination of the President. That was a murder and wae 
within the province of the local police who immediately took hold of it and 
started the investigation. 
Mr. DULLES. I realize that. 
Mr. BELMONT. And started the investigation and it was theirs. 
Mr. DULLES. You were only in there by courtesy. What you did was by 
courtesy of the local authorities. 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes, sir; we went to the Dallas Police Department and immedi­
ately went into action because of what had happened, and there was no tiine 
for us to stand, oil priorities. But we felt we should be of the utinoot assistance, 
and we sent men to the police department to assist in the· interview and do 
anything else we could. This wasn't a time, of course, to sit back and say, 
"This isn't' our job."-
Mr. DULLES. I understand. 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes. 
The CHAIBMAN. Mr. Belmont, just one question. Do you know of any legisla-
25 
