J • 
( 
( 
S ~X;'.i'lON 107: 
[ e.) When an informant 
potc:.ti&.1 witI,CSS 
Federal and gtate 
for his sorvices. 
pertinent dLtails 
the si tu:=1.tion. 
HH'OHNAK'l'S li.l;D CO:N".HDJ.. ,}Ar. 
• 
SOUHCEC 
or formnr infor~ant is initially considered as a 
in a Bureau care, detcrminr whether he p~id 
t~xes on tie income ho received from the Bureau 
Jf such t~~es ~~Te not been paid, obtain all 
and promptly su'!;:r,i t recormaendations for ha.ndli ng 
10TH 
7. Stipnln.tion re paymentn made to wi tner,ses 
a. In trials in which informan~u, forraer informants, or othnr persons who 
win:e paicl su:ns of money are prospectlvo witnesses, the Bure~•.u mu:d; 
furnish the Departr:u:nt a set of,photos·l;ats of the ori;;in~J. receipts 
signed by the pro spec ti ve wi tnessr.o, The ori1~inal receipt$ .~nd a. set 
of photostats will be tr;..nsmi.ttod to the field office :i.n whose . 
territory the trj al will t:1.ke plu.co, The office handling pr.·osecution 
must determina from the Government attornBy which individuals are 
to be used as witnesses. Thereafter the office ohould furnish and/or 
cause other appropriate offices to furnish to the Bureau the follow-
inf information: 
l
l The correct, full name 
2 All aliases, code n~mes, and symbol numbers 
3 The first date of contact by your office 
4 r·f first contact was prior to September, 1944, the nz.rnes of all 
SAr. s SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made paymen·l;s 
(5) A tabulation of all payments, broken down as to ·the amount appli­
cable to services and the amount applicable ·!;o expenses. 
Although tabulations are not furnished to the Department, those 
prepared by· your off.ice will be reconciled with Bureau records. 
(6} A listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
advances 
( 7
8
) The date of 12.st contact by your office 
( ) Whether the individu.2,l has been contacted by any other office 
ba Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. 
If no contact was made wi·l;h a particular individual, the Bureau must 
be so advised., 
c 0 Where. an informan·l; has previously been used and a tabulation of l?ay­
ments was prepared., information for items (5) through {8) n,;;ed be given 
only from the date of the last trial from which the incTiv-idual w~.s 
used. 
d. The above information should be subraitted separate and. apart from 
correspondence set·l;ing forth derogatory information, and should be 
addressed to the attention of the Administr:dive Division, Voucher 
.. Un;.t. Interd.i -visional correspondence should be addres sea. to the 
Bure~.u with copies designated for the interested offices. 
B. Receipt of unemplo:y1nent compensation 
a. At times s~curity informants and/o~ sources temporarily lose their.jobs· 
with priv.ate industry due to strikes, economic conditions, or similar 
circumstances. .As a result they become eligible for unemployment 
compensation. Where unemployment regulations require listing of all 
sources of income as a prerequisite for obtaining unemployment 
compensation and security informants and/or sources who at the time 
are being paid by the Bureau for sE:rYices rendered f2.il to comply, 
-the situation is· ·potentially embarrassing. The Bureau 02.nnot be· 
placed in the position of condoning a violation of the· state law on 
th·e part of any informant or source. Each field office must determine 
from state uneinploymen:f; compensation officials effect of unemployr,1ent 
compensation laws on paid informa.-:it.s and/or sou:::-ces. Depending on 
local requirements, -informants ·and sources must be alerted. ac cordi;ngly. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1352 
