TRAVEL OF THE PRESIDENT TO URUGUAY 
At t~e request of the White House, a representative 
of thts Bureau recently traveled to Uruguay and participated 
in briefings, surveys, and discussions relating to security to 
be provided for the President when he attends the Summit 
Conferenc,e of heads of American States to be held in Punta 
Del Este 1 Uruguay, during the period 4/12-14/670 The same 
Bureau representative is returning to Uruguay to assist a 
White House group in the implementation of security measures 
prior to the President's arrival. A general assessment of 
the situation in Uruguay at the present time indicates that 
adequate security can be provided to the President if he 
restricts his travel to Punta Del Esteo If he travels to 
Montevideo proper, security problems could arise because of 
a very militant Communist Party which already is manifesting 
its protests to the President's visito The Communist Party 
in Uruguay practically controls the labor movement and 
potentially is in a position to paralyze facilities such as 
light, gas, water, and street transportation. Filrthermore, 
there is a good potential for committing sabotage and inciting 
riotso Under the present plan, the President will not go 
into Montevideo proper. Security problems at Punta Del Este 
are greatly minimized because the geographic location and 
the resort-type atmosphere do not present any serious 
obstacles for instituting good securityo The police and 
security services in Montevideo are not efficient by our 
standards, and it will take continuing prodding to make 
certain that the necessary security measures are carried 
out. The political stability of the Uruguayan Government is 
not good. There is a new Government which is shaky and is ' suffering economic problems o There have been a series of 
strikes during the- last several weekso We have been told 
that there will be between 1500 and 2500 newspapermen who 
will attend the conference. There may be some commotion 
among,them because of inadequate housing and communication 
facilitieso Newspaper reporters may also~ind it disappointing 
to find any news of real significance at Punta Del Este if 
there are no disturbing incidents . 
.,.. l\;t'{ 
¢ J f .c.-C ,;,._Q., ,:..r ,A ~ ,<, ,A <(. ,_; 
: '· I 
.• <:;:~ :: .. 
' ,,1-; •• 
••• w "":-~ ;...•<: 
