agencies in the Kennedy ~ssassination, , 
and investigation. • 
The body of Rosselli, who lived 
flamboyantly in a world of mobsters, . 
politicians and playgirls, was found . 
two weeks ago in an inverted oil drum 
; weighted with chains but buoyed ·by,' 
; gases from decomposition on the 
: ocean's surface off the coast of Miami. 
The specific cause of death was deter• 
mined by an autops~ to. be asphyxia-
·tion. 1 1 
Last year, an underworld colleague 
;of Rosselli, Sam (Momo) Giancana, 
who also had been recruited. by the 
. CL\ in· the effo1·t to kill Castro, was 
; round shot to death in his Chicago 
home in what police described as a, 
highly professional job by assailants 1 
:who penetrated the mobster's per-
, sonal security screen. Giancana was 
due· to testify before the Senate Intel• 
;ligence Committee shortly after h~s • 
0demise. I 
Neither murder flas been solved. 
, The possibility that Rosselli's mur­
der might have been related to his 
Senate testimony on the CIA schemes 
. to kill Castro has brought the FBI 
into the investigation at the request 
. of Attorney General Edward H. Levi. 
The involvement of Rosselli, Gian­
cana and other underworld figures­
p1·incipally Santos Trafficante of 
Tampa, Fla., whose one-time Havana 
gambling enterprises fell hostage in 
• 1959 to the Cuban revolution-in plots 
against Castro had been a closely held 
secret within the top echelons. of the 
CIA and FBI until recently. 
: The tangled chronology of suppres­
sion and eventual disclosure, although 
• detailed in the June report, has re-' 
ceived little public attention. Rossel-
. !i's murder adds significance to those 
events. 
Here is the sequence, pieced to'. 
gether from the testimony given to 
Senate intelligence investigators: 
Columnist Drew Pearson went to 
the late Chief Justice of 'the United 
States Earl Warren late in .. January, 
1967. and told him that a Washington 
lawyer had confided to him ·that one· 
of his clients said the United States 
"had attempted to assassin.ate Fidel 
Castro in the early 1960s and Castro 
had decided to retaliate." • 
Warren declined Pearson's sugges­
tion that he see· the lawyer, who was 
Edward Morgan. Warren referred the 
matter to then Secret Service Direc­
tor James J. Rowley, who on Feb. 13,. 
1967, wrote FBI Director J. Edgar Ho­
over, informing _him of the 'allegations. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 639 
- 2 -
'}!!· ,, 
• Hoover sent the Rowley letter to six 
• • senior bureau officials on a.n "eyes-
, only" basis. There is no record of FBI 
meetings or discussions of. those a He• 
'gations. At lhat point the sensitive let­
ter bounced back and forth 'in the 
higher reaches of the FBI bureauc-
, 1racy. 
I
i! l i The job of responding to Rowley's 
• .letter was assigned to the supervisor 
. of the FBI's General Inves,tigative Di­
vision who was given respons,ility for• 
the overall assassination investigation 
in March 1964. 
This official's job was complicated 
by the fact that he had never been in­
formed of what Hoover and his closest 
circle .of confidants in the FBI learned 
early in i962-that the CIA wr3s. 
deeply involved in assassination 
· attempts against Castro, and promi-
nent American underworld figures, in­
cluding Rosselli and Giancana; had 
been recruited for the attempts. , • 
•. So on Feb. 15, 1967, the FBI official. 
• prepared a' draft reply to the Rowley·: 
letter for his superiors saying "our in- ' 
vestigation uncovered no evidence fo. 
dicating Fidel Castro officials of the 
Cuban Crover9ment were involved 
• '•with Lee Harvey Oswald in the assas­
sination of President Kennedy. This 
• bureau is not conducting I any investi­
gation regarding this m~tter." • The 
'FBI official added in late~ testimony 
that "everyone.in the higher echelons 
read this ... " 
Drew Pearson went ahead and pub­
lished a column on March 7, 1967, ref. 
erring to reports tllat CIA schemes 
against Castro's life in 1963 "may 
have resulted in a counterplot by Cas­
tro to assassinate President Kenne-
d~" • 
Ten days later, Marvin Watson. one 
of Lyndon .Johnson's chief deputies, 
called FBI. assistant .director Cartha 
. DeLoach with the message that "the 
• President had instructed that the FBI • 
interview (Morgan) concerning ·any 
-knowledge he might have regarding. 
the assassination of President Ken'. 
nedy." i. 
DeLoach told Watson, that it ap­
peared Morgan "did not want to be in­
terviewed, and even if he was inter­
'viewed he would pl'obably not divulge 
t.he identity of his sources .. ," Wat-
son persisted, however. • ' • 
"Under the circumstances," De­
Loach concluded in. a memo for the .. 
. files. "it appears that WE; have no al­
ternative but to interview (Morgan)' 
and then furnish the res\llts to Wat-.. 
son in blind memorandum form."· 
The interYiew was assigned·to two 
agents from the FBI's General Investi­
gative Division, which . the Senate 
committee concluded was "puzzling" 
because it was the Domestic Intelli­
gence Div.ision which had been as­
sjgned responsi•bility for investigating 
possible foreign involvement in the 
assassination. • 
Neither agent was privy to the 
knowledge, eonfined to Hoover and 
llis top aides, of the CIA's assassin.a•· 
tion plots against,Castro. Both agents 
testified eight years later that they 
were "surprised" when Morgan al• 
luded during the·•interview ·to U.S. at• 
tempts· to assassinate Castro. 
"These agents stated that they 
could not evaluate the la'l-'yer's 
'(Morgan's) allegations or question him 
in detail on them, since they. had not 
been briefed on the CIA assassination 
efforts," the Senate committee ob• 
served. • 
, On March 21. 1967, the FBI's, Wash­
ington Field Office sent headquarters 
ten copies of a blind memorandum 
summarizing the interview with Mor• 
gan.. • • ' 
In a Senate Intelligence. Committee 
summary of the FBI interview, Mor­
gan was· reported to·' have acknow~- . 
edged that his clients' were "on the 
fringe of the underworld" and that 
they faced "possible prosecution in a' 
• .crime not related to the assassination .. 
Morgan said· his clients "were called 
upon by a governmental agency to as­
sist in a project which was said to 
have the highest governmental ap• 
proval. The project had as its purpose 
the assassination of Fidel Castro. 
Elaborate plans were made," including 
. the infiltration of t~e· Cuban Govern- • 
rnent and tile placing of .foformants 
within key posts in Cuba." • 
Morgan also told the FBI. according 
to the summary, that .Castro had em­
ployed "teams 'of individuals who 
were dispatched to the United States., 
for the purpose of assassinating Presi, 
.:~.··dent K~nnedy." • ·I -. 
H was not :'clear then.....,.nor is it to/· 
day~why ?ltorgan • came forward at 
that time to hring• Rosselli's story to 
the ears of the nation's highest law, 
enforcement authorities. • 
It may be relevant that Rosselli had·· 
•serious legal problems at the time. 
In May, 1966, the FBI. threatened to 
i. depOTt him for· li\/ing in the United 
States tinder an assumed name unless 
he cooperated in an investigation of 
the Mafia (his true n'ame was Filippo 
Saco). At the time, he reaclJed' a CIA 
contact from the anti-Castrlo conspir­
acy days, CIA security director Col.· 
_§!l~ffield Edwards, wllo informed the 
