13-00000 
-6-
CIA Static;,ns and Other Issues 
Over the past two years the Review Board has ~stabllshed other guidelines that will 
continue to guide the revlew process, some of which will be outlined here. For CIA 
stations, all locations related to the Mexico City story will be released during the period 
1960-69. ,outside of that window, they will be released on a case-by-case basis should 
the Identity of the station be critical to understanding the assassination. Other stations, 
except for those identified as particularly sensitive, will be released from the beginning 
of the Kennedy administration until the publication of the Warren Commission report, 
(i.e., January·t, 1961 to October 1, 1964). Outside of these Windows, stations wm be 
postponed.· Cable prefixes, dispatch prefixes, and field report prefixes would be • 
postponed or released according .to the same windows as the stations to which they 
refer. CIA Job titles also are· redacted. or opened along with the station at which the 
officer served. • 
' .Crypts would be released ,along lines similar to other information. All "LI" crypts, except 
those considered particularly sensitive would be· released through October ·1, 1964, as 
are 
11
AM· crypts and U.S. govemmehtcrypts. In other areas, only the digraph ls 
protected. • Again, the exception is sensitive crypts, which would be· protected in their • 
entirety. After October 1, 1964, the· presumption shifts towards protection of the crypts, 
except those that provide meaningful informatkm about the assassination story. (For 
example, crypts pertln~nt to Garrison-era doc,uments would likely carry the same 
presumption of release as those generated during the Warren Commission~) 
Surveillance methods will be released if the nature of the surveillance h• a material 
bearing on information rel~ted.to the assassination unless CIA provides evidence 
demonstrating the political or operational sensitivity, in which case the lnfomiatlon will 
be released In 2017. • • 
e:\arrb\regs\evlew.wpd 
