NW 
• 
STATUS OF JOHN GEORGE LEDES; 
JOSEPH ABRAMS 
February 8,-1960 
FRAUD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT - -
CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
This case was referred to us by the Attorney General 
on 12-31-59. It relates to the association between Ledes,_ a 
I 
former legal adviser to Securities_ and nxchange Commission (SEC)· 
Commissioner James c. Sargent and Abrams, a New York promoter of 
unsavory reputation. Ledes resigned.from Reynolds and_C0m.pany, 
New York brokers, on 1-28-60. _ 
We have reviewed voluminous SEC f:i.les-throughout 
the. country and have interviewed numerous persons in and out 
of SEC who handled cases involving Abrams' firms. We determined 
that Ledes endeavored to assist Abrams in several SEC matters 
while Ledes was still with that agency-. Abrams made loans to 
Ledes relative to financing properties purchased by Ledes. These 
loans may constitute payment of compensation to L~des and thus 
bring their relationship within the scope of Conflict of Interest 
Statutes. 
SEC Commissioner Sargent, who originally denied knowledge 
as to any connection between Ledes and Abrams, has since improved 
his_memory considerably and now feels he may have been taken 
advantage.of by Ledes. Sargent finally furnished a signed state­
ment as to his recollection of these matters on 2-5-60. Sargent 
told us that Ledes had been in touch with Tony Russo who had . 
arranged for former Attorney General Brownell to talk .to Attorney 
General Rogers in July, 195~, about Sargent's ambition at the time 
to become u. s. Attorney for the Southern District of New York._ 
We have been told that both Ledes and Abrams were associated with 
Russo, ex-confidential assistant to ·Brownello ·Russo has not been 
alleged to be involved in any irregularities in this matter. 
\ 
Arrangements are now being made \o interview subject 
Ledes in New York City. ·Arrangements are also being made to 
interview subject Abrams who is serving a 30-month sentence on 
Fraud Against the Government charges, as well as Abrams' uncle, 
Charles Gof>don. These interviei..rs, and subsequent re cord checks 
to verify information furnished by the subjects, will complete 
the investigationo • 
.. ,. ; ·. 
. ' . 
'n• ••';; "•' ,,,;, •••f.-.•••I 
