13-00000 
~~ 
'· 
·,,,_:;,-_ .. . 
~~ ... ~-. 
~~~ 
.• ·--•:----·-
•• ".·. ---~--.-
-
. .. -·: .. • ... ·--
•. \:t{:.· 
in view of the fact that we have practically-we have all the reports, he Sllys -
we have all the reports that are in that file, and it just seems like thrashing 
old straw to go over it and over it again. • 
Mr. MCCLOY. Do we have copies of all these telegrams that are in here from 
the Embassy? 
Mr. BELMONT. You are looking at--
Mr. McCLOY. Not Embassy; here is one from Mexico. Do we have that? 
We don't have these in our files, for example. 
Mr. BELMONT. This is subsequent to the assassination. You see your area 
of int.e.rest at this point is information, all information we had prior to the 
assassination. I did not remove from this file the items that started to come 
in subsequent to the assassination, you .see~ 
Mr. McCLOY. My feeling is that somebody oil the Commission should examine 
that file. I can't come to any other conclusion after reading it all, because I 
don't know what is in it, what is in our record, and what is in that file. There 
is a good bit of material there that is narrative, which I think would be relevant. 
Certainly, I don't believe we can be possibly criticized for deleting or not pro~ 
ducing a file which contains the type of information that you are speaking of. 
We are just as interested in protecting the security of your investigative proc­
esses as you are. - But I don't think that when it is on the record that we have 
this file, that may contain material that was not in our files, and we are given 
the opportunity to examine it, without disclosirlg these confidential matte.rs that 
we ought not to have somebody go through it. 
Mr. DULLES. I agree with that but· I think we could save time if we checked 
off first what we have already and that would cut out about half of that file 
probably. 
Mr. McCLOY. I think in a rapid glance through it, I think just about half- of it. 
The CHAIRMAN. Well, suppose you do that then, get those and let's see. All 
right, proceed, Mr. Stern. 
Mr. STERN. I think perhaps we ought to leave the entire matt.e.r of the file 
then until we can give you the information. 
The CHAIRMAN. That is right. 
Mr. STERN. May we admit for the purposes of the record this list at this time, 
Mri Chief Justice, which has been marked No. 834? 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes. There are no security matters in this? 
Mr. BELMONT. No, sir. 
The CHAIRMAN. It may be admitted as Exhibit No. 834. 
(The document referred to, p~iously marked Commission Exhibit No. 834 foi 
. identification, was received in evidence.) 
Mr. STERN. Mr. Belmont, oo.n. you identify this letter dated February 6 with 
an attached affidavit which has been marked for identification as Commission 
Exhibit No. 835? 
(The document referred to was marked Commission Exhibit No. 835, for 
identification.) 
Mr. BELMONT, Yes; this is a letter dated Febntary 6, 1964, to the Commission 
from the FBI to which is attached a.Ii affldavit by Director J. Edgar Hoover. 
Mr. STER?,. ·What is the subject? 
Mr. BELMONT. Stating flatly that Lee Harvey Oswald was never an informant 
of the FBI. • 
Mr. DULLES. Would you define informa:nt. Obviously in the sense he· knew 
some information as previously indicated from the previous interviews. I mean 
for the record, would you just define what you mean by an informant in this 
sense? 
Mr. BELMONT. An -informant in this sense is an individual who has agreed to 
cooperate with the FBI and to furnish information to the FBI either for or with­
out payment. 
Mr. STERN. Thank you. 
Mr. BELMONT. This would not, of course, include the cooperative citizen to 
whom we go, and who frequently and frankly discloses any information in his 
possession, but rather someone who joins an organization or seeks out informa­
tion at the direction and instance of the FBI relative to subversive or crimilllal 
14 
