14-00000 
SUBJECT: JFK Declaration of Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr. 
(U) The DO provided an unclassified response to 
the ARRB staff's request for a brief explanation of how 
the Directorate of Operations processed cables in the 
1963/1964 timeframe. We are unable to locate any 
Agency-wide definitive records on the subject for this 
time frame, and the information provided below is based 
solely on the memory of DO officers familiar with 
procedures in place at the time and in the specific 
offices in which they served. 
(U) Each area division in the DO maintained and 
staffed its own registry. Al though each registry was 
configured to meet each division's unique requirements, 
there were common functions performed by all the 
registries to include: collecting, sorting, and 
delivering of incoming cables; maintenance of incoming 
and outgoing cable "chronos;" collecting and delivering 
of incoming and outgoing pouch material; and the 
issuance and maintenance of "pseudo and alias" card 
files. 
(U) On a daily basis, usually six days per week, 
each registry collected its incoming cable traffic from 
a· central processing point, then called the Cable 
Secretariat, within the Office of Communications. The 
incoming cables were then sorted by registry personnel 
according to predefined guidelines. These guidelines 
were unique to each division and were frequently 
altered to meet changing operational requirements. 
Sorted cables were then delivered to specific 
operational/area desks. A "chrono" copy of each 
incoming cable was maintained, on a temporary basis, 
usually for 90 days, and the receiving office placed a 
copy into an operational file based upon subject or 
activity. 
(U) Outgoing cables were created and coordinated 
by appropriate operational/area desks and usually 
released by the chief of the division or a designated 
releasing officer. "Released" cables were then hand 
delivered or sen~ by pneumatic tube system {a system 
long ago dismantled from the original Headquarters 
building) to Cable Secretariat for processing into the 
Agency's communication network. "Chrono" copies of 
29 
~ 
