) 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
SECTION 107 .• ECURITY INFORMANTS .AND CONFID.IAL SOURCES 107N 
:t. If the informant receives from outside employment less than $4800, 
all of which is subject to Social Security tax, the amount on which 
he will have to report for Social Security tax purposes, if he com­
pletes a schedule C, is the difference between the amount received 
from regular employment and $4800. 
g. If informant completes a schedule C, the nature of business of the 
self-employed must be stated and informants should be instructed to 
us~ as the nature of self-employment any applicable occupation with­
out revealing connection with the Bureau. 
7. Stipulation re payments made to witnesses 
a. In trials in which informants, former informants, or other persons who 
were paid sums of money are prospec·~ive witnesses, the Bureau must 
furnish the Department[a set of Photostats of the original receipts 
signed by the prospective witnesses, The original receipts and a set 
of Photostats will be transmitted to the field office in whose 
territory the trial will take plac~.J The office.handling prosecution 
must determine from the [Government] attorney which individuals are 
to be used as witnesses. Thereafter the office shduld furnish and/or 
cause other appropriate offices to furnish to the Bureau the follow­
ing information: 
!
li· The correct, full name 
2 All alias es, code names, and symbol numbers 
3 The first date of contact by your office 
4 If first contact was prior to September, 1944, the names of all 
SAs, SACs, and ASACs who contacted and may have made payments 
(5~ A tabulation of all payments, broken down as to the amount appli­
cable to services and the amount applicable to expenses. 
[.Although tabulations are not furnished to the Department, those 
prepared by your office will be reconciled with Bureau records,] 
(6) A listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
ad-vances 
(7
8
) The date of last contact by your office 
( ) Whether the individual has been contacted by any other office 
bo Each individual and each item of information must be accounted.for. 
If no contact was made with a particular indi-vidual, the Bureau must 
be so advisedo 
c 0 Where an informant has previously been used and a tabulation of pay­
ments ;,;as prepared, information for items (5) through (8) need be given 
only from the date of the last trial from v;hioh the indi-vidual vrn.s 
used. 
d 0 The above information should be submitted separate and apart from 
correspondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be 
addressed to the attention of the Administrati-ve Division, Voucher 
Unit. Interdivisional correspondence should be addressed to the 
Bureau with copies designated for the interested offices. 
8. Receipt of unemployment compensation 
a. At times security informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
vd-'ch private industry due to strikes, economic conditions, or simila.r 
circumstances. As a resu.1 t they become eligible for tmempJ.oyment 
compensation. Where unemployment regulations require listing of a.11 
sources of income as a prerequisite for obtaining unemployment 
compensation .and security informants and/or sources who at the tLne 
are being paid by the Bu1•eau for services rendered fail to comply, 
the situation is potentially embarrassing. The Bureau cannot be 
placed in the position of condoning a violation of the state law on 
the part of any informant or source. Each field office must determine 
from state unemployment compensation officials effect of unemployment 
compensation laws on paid informants a.nd/or sources. Depending on 
J.ocal requirements, informants and sources must be alerted accord:i.r..gly. 
b. Whenever a paid inform~.nt and/or source becomes unemployed or has 
knowledge of impending unemployment, a.iscus s all facts vii th him a.YJ.d 
submit observations and recommendations to Bureau. Unless advised 
to the contrary by the Buree.u, follow recommended action. Each 
office must assume the responsibility of guarding against :i.nforman·I; ts 
?.ccepting a Bureau payment that would conflict w:i. th unemployment 
compensation laws. At the same time, weigh seriously the possible 
need for an informant to apply and accept unemployment compensation to 
NW 38321 . Docld:32989529 Page 1526 
21 
10-13--60 
