13-00000 
· PAGE 24 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
of the records in the collection cannot be underestimated. In addition to the 
records of numerous executive branch agencies and offices, the records of 
relevant congressional committees, related court cases, and records donated by 
private entities are also available in the collection. 
This rich documentation is searchable electronically, giving researchers the 
ability to seek out documents concerning a topic, person or event, or even 
individual documents, not only at NARA's College Park facility but from their 
own personal computer through the Internet. 
Finally, Mr. Chairman, public demand for these records is the ultimate evidence 
of the value of this collection. Reference requests have risen in number every 
year since the collection opened with new records in August of 1993. This year 
we have already received over 600 written inquiries, an increase of over 30 
percent from this period of time last year. The number of inquiries on our 
computer Web site is also steadily increasing. Since March 1996, when the 
assassination records database was made available through the Internet, it has 
been accessed over 100,000 times by the public. , 
Due to the exceptional work of the Assassination Records Review Board, great 
progress has been made on making available as complete a record as possible in 
the history of the assassination of John Kennedy. Without the focus, integrity 
and expertise of the review board, the collection would not have the size, 
quality or public demand witnessed today. 
However, there is still much to do. NARA supports passage of HR 1553 so this • 
important work can be completed . 
. That concludes my statement, Mr. Chairman. I'll be glad to answer any 
questions.· • 
REP. HASTERT: Thank the gentleman. 
Mr. Holland? 
MAX HOLLAND (Author, contributing editor of Wilson Quarterly): Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. I'd like to make a brief statement summarizing my testimony. 
Nearly 75 years after President Lincoln's assassination, a chemist-turned-author 
named Otto Eisenschiml provoked a national furor with his 1937 book, "Why Was 
Lincoln Murdered?" Eisenschiml claimed one of the most important events in 
American history was still a mystery. And Eisenschiml claimed to have uncovered 
the truth: President Lincoln was the victim of a conspiracy organized by his 
secretary of war, Edwin Stanton, who was allegedly opposed to the president's 
program for a charitable post-war reconstruction of the South. 
When pressed, Otto Eisenschiml openly admitted that he had no evidence to 
support his case. At the same time, it was precisely the documentary record 
that enabled critics to prove that Eisenschiml's book was just another in a long 
line of lunatic theories about the first assassination of an American president. 
