13-00000 
r_ 
l 
• 
,.-·-. 
1_ 
:,. ___ .... 
.· ... 
CLANDESTINE SERVICES 
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 
·SECRET 
CSI NO. 10-5 
SECURITY 
Revised 17 July 1958 
• the Chief, Counter Intelllgence Staff; or his deslgnee, will, if the Office of 
Security does not" recommend against the use of the individual, determine 
whether an Operational Approval should be granted and wlll notify the Of­
fice of Security -of its decision. However, in the event the Office of Secu­
·rtty recommends against the use ~fan individual and the Clandestine 
Services still desires, on a calculated risk basis, to use the individual, 
the Counter Intelllgence Staff will inform the Office of Security of this 
fact. In this event, the Counter Intelllgence Staff and the Security Support 
Division will endeavor to arrive at an agreed position and, to this end, 
the former will hold the granting of the Operational Approval in abeyance 
until five days have elapsed after the Office of Security has been advised 
of this intention. The Counter Intelllgence Staff will notify the Office of • 
Security whenever it has: • 
. (1) Granted an Operational Approval or a Provisional Operational Approval . 
(2) Cancelled an Operational Approval. 
e. In Operational Approval cases the Office of Security wm forward investi­
gative reports, name check results, etc., to the Counter Intelllgence Staff. 
In extremely sensitive cases, however, particularly those in which the 
security or good of the Agency as a whole ls involved, the Office of Secu­
rity will not be obliged to furnish all investigative material.- In such cases 
the Office of Security will inform the Counter Intelllgence Staff that such 
material has been withheld and will, upon request, discuss the matter with 
the Chief, Counter Intelligence Staff, or other appropriate ofilclal of the 
Clandestine Services. • 
f. A Provisional Operational Appf roval may alsfo be requested where clrcuin- ✓-
stances warrant. A search o the indices o the Agency, including those 
of the Office of Security, ls a minimum requirement for issuance of a Pro-
vlslolial Operational Approval. • - - • 
g. Whenever interest in an individual under consideration for either an Oper .. 
atlonal Approval or a Provisional Operational Approval ls terminated for 
any reason, the requester, in order to prevent needless processing, will 
notify the Counter Intelligence Staff promptly so that the latter may in turn 
advise the Office of Security. ' 
5. COVERT SECURITY APPROVALS AND-PROPRIETARY APPROVALS 
a. All background material wlll be assembled by the interested divisions anci _ • 
will include any biographic ·data; information of an investigative or secu.;. 
rlty signlflcance; lnformation--relating to character, reputation, politics, 
past employment, residences, and other activities; favorable and unfavor­
able information; PRQ Part I or its equivalent (in duplicate); and field _ • 
traces. This material is forwarded directly to the Office of Security in 
its original form. (Traces need not be obtained from the Records Inte­
gration Division; see paragraph 5.b., below.)· A brief practical statement 
of the scope, nature, and geographical area of use of the subject will also 
.3 
--SECRET 
'/;'.":'· 
[~; 
" -,:· 
•,): 
/\ 
'l 
I 
