13-00000 
DAVID G._MARWELL 
Biographical Information 
On July 1, 1994, the Berlin Document Center,(BDC) was transferred to the German 
Federal Archives (Bundesarchiv) marking the end of nearly 48 years of American control 
of this unique organization. With an estimated 25 million· Nazi-era personnel-related files, 
the BDC was once a crucial source of evidence for .the Nuremberg Trials and is today· aii' 
incalculably imponant source for the study of the Third Reich. The transfer also marked 
the end of David Marwell' s tenure as Director of the BDC. ,, 
A well-trained scholar with a PH.D. in History, Marwell came to Berlin in 1988 from 
the Office of Special Investigations (OSI), U.S. Department of Justice where}.0-h~d the 
position of ~hief of Investigative Research. At OSI, he was invo1'!¢ in researchm, an~ 
preparing cases against accused Nazi war criminals residing in the United States. In 
addition. he was selected to participate in the Klaus Barbie Investigation (1983) and played 
a major role in the Josef Mengele investigation (1985), both of which received 
international attention, 
In connection with the Joseph Mengele and Klaus Barbie investigations, Marwell was 
in charge of assembling all relevant documentary evidence relating to any possible 
connection between these individuals and U.S. institutions or personnel. The 
i..'lvestigations were two of the most unusual ever undenaken and through them he gained 
sigiriificant experiences in the identifying and l~ating documentary resources. The former 
Director of OSI, Allan A. Ryan, Jr., in his book Quiet Neighbors: Prosecuting Nazi War 
Criminals in America, described Marwell as "an experienced and careful historian who 
could find documents in archives when no one else could." 
. When Marwell arrived at the Document Center, the· institution had been rocked by a 
scandal involving a significant theft of documents. The resulting focus on .the Center 
revealed that it had been neglected in many areas for many years and suffered from an . 
outmoded administrative structure, a disaffected and undertrained staff and a lack of 
professional guidance. It was Marwell's job to bring the Center up to standard and prepare 
it for n.nnover to the German government. , ., 
The challenges facing Marwell were not only to manage. a complex institution (with 
an annual budget of eight million deutschmarks) and repair past deficiencies, but also to • 
define a future for an institution in transition. He prepared a "five year plan" for the BDC. • 
that set five goals, developed a corresponciing program to meet each goal, and designed a 
system to monitor the progress. In achieving all of the goals, Marwell: 
• Introduced computer technology (there was not a single computer at the 
BDC when he arrived) and developed a sophisticated, integrated information 
retrieval system that has been described as a m'odel for archive 
administration; 
• Created a fully professional document conservation and restoration program; 
•· Developed a staff (50 Germans and 20+ Americans) that is better rrained and • 
far more responsible, flexible and creative than it had been; 
