87D 
(8) 
'•' 
' \,· \: ,, 
,;"',•1 
·.;' 
r 
(9) 
,-;;: ': SECTION 87. SECURITY IJIV}~STI ,IOHS 
• 
-~-
Changes, addition:,, and deletions of data appearing on security 
index carcls 
(a) Submit to Bureau by FD-122 any changes, addition~, or delot:i.ons 
involving n2.me, alias es, cj_ tizenohip, organizational affili.~­
tion or natio.nalistio tendencies, detoom classific~.tion~ 
date or place of birth, key facility geo~raphical reference 
number, abbreviation of agency having securitY, responsi-. 
bility (see 87D 7c (2) below), residence or business 
address. Exception: Change office of origin by for~ 
FD-128. 
(b) Iniertion or removal of cards from special section or 
unavailable section should be handled pursuant to 87D 
7b (6) {b) III or IV. . , . 
(c) .Temporary handwritten notations may be made on existing 
security index cards pending receipt of corrected cards 
from Bureau. 
(d) Indicate use of FD-122 for changes by checking proper 
( e )· 
{.f) 
opening .paragraph and submit without abstract •. 
Set ou:l; only i terns being changed, added, or deleted. 
If being deleted, specify »neletc.tt 
Upon receipt from Bureau of corrected security index cards 
with duplicate copy of FD-122 (stamped "Corrected Security 
Index cards attached. Substitute for cards in file and 
destroy old cards. ·Place photograph ~nd description -n 
reverse side of geographical cards.n), action to b~ t~ken 
includes: 
I. Check accuracy of data on ear-ds. 
II. [Deleted] . 
III. Transfer separate cards with. descripti-v-e data and 
photograph from back.of old g-eographical section cards 
to back of corrected cards, staple them and file in 
geograpli°ical section. Exception: _ For special or 
unavailable section subjects, see 87D 7b .(6) {b) • 
III or IV above. 
IV. File third card in alphahetical section of security 
.index. 
V. Destroy old cards. 
Movement of subjects between offices and transfers of security 
index cards 
(a) Subjects of security index cards other than key figures 
and top functionaries 
I. Requests to verify addresses of_ security..~ndex subjects 
from other offices must be assigned immediately and •• '" 
results of investigation to verify the new address must 
be transmitted to the office of origin within two weeks. 
II. Office of origin, upon receipt of verification of 
address, should_submit FD-128 immediately transferring 
office of origin. Forms regarding unavaila9lp section 
subjects should be prepared in accordance with 87D 7b 
(6) (b) IV above. . .... 
III. Submit original and one copy of FD-128. to Bure,1.u. Sub­
mit two copies thereof to office covering subject's new 
address, enclosing copies of all previ.ous r.eports, other 
pertinent serials~ photograph if available, and.security 
index cards. FD-128 should show full title. 
IV., Information concernin.g key fa.cili ty employment of sub­
ject in new office sh~uld be furnished by that office 
•·· to old office of origin so that geographical reference 
58 
12-13-61 
[NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 813 
