107F-q SECTION 107. 
\ -~ 
S.RIT~ INFORMA.NTS AND CONFIDEN4J SOURCES. 
10. Transfer of informants to other areas 
a. Keep alert to possibility of transferring informants to areas needing 
coverage through change in residence or employment. 
b. Xeep in mind overall coverage of organizations. If informant becomes 
prominent and may be able to expand his field of activi.ty beyond your 
field division, encourage him to do so in order to provide wider cov­
erage for Bureau's work. 
11. Action by informant when uncovered 
a.. If informant is uncovered by subversi-ve elements, instruct him to de­
fend himself vigorously and demand proof of his informant activity. 
b. Suspicion in many cases is directed to an informant without facts to 
back it up and by bluffing informant may confuse issue to point where 
his services may not be lost. 
c. In some cases it w2y be necessary for informant to acquiesce to 
charges of deviation from strict discipline of organization involved, 
~nd thus cast off suspicion. 
12. Requests of informant to help defend others 
a. If requested by Communist Party, or other interested parties to assist 
in preparation of defense in subversive-type cases or handle assign­
ment where such information is readily available, informant should 
tactfully decline. 
b. ·such requests should be reporte·d immediately to contacting Agent and 
made matter of record. . 
c. If informant cannot avoid becoming involved, instruct him net to report 
any information pertaining to defense prans or strategy. 
d. Promptly report any such incident to Bureau. 
e. If an informant is present in conversation between an attorney and 
individual under criminal indictment, he should immediately leave. 
If he is unable to do so and inadvertently learns of defense plans 
or strategy, he is not to re.port the sub::;tance of any such 
conversation to the FBI. Additionally, the informant is not to 
~ngage in or report the substance of a conversation vd th a criminal 
defendant dealing witb the offense for which the defendant is 
under indictment. 
13. Preparation for testifying 
Contacting Agent must. condition informant to fact that someday knowledge 
·he possesses may be needed as evidence in court. Psychologically prepare 
informant for fact that he may at future date be called upon to testify to 
information he has furnished on security matters. Proper indoctrination· 
of informant is essential as Bur.ea.u must provide witnesses whenever 
Department initiates prosecution.s in securi ~y cases. 
G. INFORM.l\.NTS I INFORY.u\.TION 
1. General instructions re oral and written information 
a. -These instructions apply to security informants, potential security 
informants, panel sources, security confidential sources, and 
security sources of information. 
b. Specific instructions must be given to informants concerning prepara­
tion of statements containing their information. 
c. They should be submitted as quickly as possible after meeting or 
activity. 
d. Written statements should be submitted when possible. In espionage 
and foreign nationality matters written statemenis are usually 
necessary only in those instances involving possible future prosecu­
tion~ (In the majority of cases diplom2.ts or officials who are not 
subject to prosecution are involved.) 
e. Carefully scrutinize each, bearing in mind that if informant is called 
u.pon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be 
introduced in court. 
f. All information furnished by informants must be promptly reviewed, 
recorded, indexed, evaluated, channelized, and all necessary action 
taken. Form FD-306 may be used in lieu of channelizing me~orandum if 
desired. If so, prepare copies of FD-306 as needed ·for cJ::.z.:inelizing 
and staple one copy to each copy of informant's statement being 
channelized. Channelization should he noted on original F::)-306 and 
on all copies. [In those instances in which an informant reports that 
an individual attended a meeting but took no active part therein and/or 
-NW-3832..1-Docld:32989529 eag 
8 
r-14-74 
) 
·J 
7-· 
, .J 
) 
) 
./ 
,. :11 
.. 
' 
t 
~ 
f t 
J! I' ., 
< ,, 
~ 
t ! 
t 
~i , 
l 
l 
' ' a I 
~ 
~ i 
~ ; 
I 
i 
! 
l 
' i 
i 
j 
. 1 
l 
