SECRET 
- 14 -
The aggregate strength of these units is now estimated by intelligence people 
to be about 5,000 men. 
In addition, it is agreed that the number of Soviet personnel in Cuba 
was substantially underestimated by our intelligence. For example, on 
October 22, 1962, the date that the President addressed the nation, the intellj_ 
gence community estimated the Soviet personnel in Cuba to be 8 to 10 thousand. 
The current intelligence evaluation is that at the height of the Soviet build­
up, there were in Cuba an aggregate of at least 22,000 Soviet troops. This 
is, of course, a retroactive or reconstructed intelligence estimate. One 
factor in the underestimation of the number of Soviet personnel in Cuba in 
October was the assumption that the arriving passenger ships were normally 
loaded. It is obvious now that these ships were, in fact, troop loaded and 
that the actual aggregate troop-carrying capacity of·the arriving passenger 
ships was in excess of 20,000. fn addition, it is believed that additional 
Soviet military personnel arrived in cargo ships. There is some reason to 
doubt that even the 22,000 figure would account fully for all of' the great 
quantities of weapons and equipment introduced into Cuba since June, 1962. 
The failure to identify the presence of organized Russian combat units 
in Cuba and the underestimation of the number of Soviet personnel present 
there merits special comment. At that time, that is, on October 22, our 
plans for a possible landing of forces in Cuba, which were already substantial­
ly complete, were necessarily based upon the information that our invading 
forces would be opposed only by indigenous Cuban troops. The fact of the matter 
is that the native Cuban forces would have been reinforced by highly trained, 
powerful, and mobile Soviet armored units possessed of tremendous striking 
power. These facts were not transmitted to the responsible United States 
commanders until several days subsequent to October 25. 
S E C R E T 
mt -~095.~ Docld: :32424109 Page 49 
