I 
-~~ t.-} .. /J 
tt~;~-r I 
:.:rt•-'i,I 1 '·• 
questions they asked was whether the Agency could say it was acting pur­
suant to Government policy--: or as they put the question: 
11
Can CIA state 
or imply that it was merely ah instrument of policy?" The answer given 
was: 
"Not iri this case. While it is true that Phase Two (the~ 
attempt commencing in April 1962) was carried out in an / 
atmosphere of intense Kennedy Administration pressure to / 
do something about Castro, such is not true of the earlier • 
phase." (I.G., p. 132). __J 
In addition to the I.G. Report, we examined the records of the National 
Security Council and the Special Group, as well as other relevant White House 
files bearing on the question of authorization for the period from 
Castro's rise to power to the end of the Eisenhower Administration. As we 
discuss below, three documents were found which contained references arguably 
related to the subject of assassination. 
2. The Contemporaneous Documents 
In March 1960, the National Security Council and the Special 
Group focused on Cuban policy. President Eisenhower had just returned from 
a foreign trip in which 
"Latin American Presidents had counseled further forbearance 
by the U.S. in the hope that the members of the Organization 
of American States would finally see the potential danger in 
Cuba and.take concerted action." (Gray, Ex. 2, Memorandum of 
March 10, 1960 NSC Meeting, p. 8). 
Castro was characterized as hostile, but his Communist ties were apparently 
then unclear. Indeed, it may have been the prevailing opinion, at that time, 
that Castro was not actually a Communist.* For it was stated in the minutes 
of the March 10, 1960 NSC meeting: 
"there is no apparent alternative to the present government in 
the event Castro disappears. Indeed the result of Castro's dis-J 
appearance_might b~ a Communist takeover." (Gray, Ex. 2, p. 7). "" 
* Castro apparently first announced publicly that he was a "Marxist-Lenist" 
on December 2, 1961. (David Larson, Cuba Crisis of 1962, p. 304). 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 112 
12 
Jr 
