4. 
Jim Drr.i.dcn':::; True Identity •::r.1or0cs 
In early 19G9, Peter r:oyes, the investigative reporter. 
1·.rhosc boo}: cover.::; much of the information regarding Jim 
Braden, began investigating the mysterious California 
"oil mun." 
I:oycs oriqinully received a tip ubout Drc:tdcn from a 
former. FBI agent who wc1.s then aiding District ,\ttorncy 
Jim Garrison's investigation of the Kennedy assassination. 
The FBI mun told Noyes of Bridcn•s presence at the scene of 
the assassination at the time of the shooting. 
lioyes soon found that Jim Braden was no longer at either 
of the addresses that he had given the Dallas police, and 
had left no forwar<liQg addresses. 
Hoye;; then had the CiJ.lifornia Department of t1otor Vehicles 
run a check on the license number that Braden had given to 
the Dallas police 2t the Sheriff's office following the 
nssas::::inntion. i-lotor Vehicles told :1oycs that Bruden I s 
license (1!751755) had been renewed by Brndcn in San Diego 
county in 0overnber of 19GG. Braden has also listed new 
businasd nnd l1ome nddresses, which interestingly were over 
a hundred miles apart. 
The Department of l'.otor Vehicles' recorcls on Jim Braden 
.::i.lso showed that "Jim Drc1den 11 wns not rcc1llyhis original 
name. The license had actually been issued in the 1950
1
s 
to Euacnc liu.lc Dr.:idinq, which is Braden's true identity. 
On September 10, 19G3., just ten weeks before the ass.::i.ssination, 
:~ugcnc :I.:ilc · Dr2ding h;:id not,i f i c<l the Dcpprtmcn t that he hc1d 
legally chu.ngcd his n2~c to Jira Braden, and he requested a 
_neN license under that nnrne. The license was granted. 
Intrigued b'/ the fc:tct that Jir.1 nradcn was really a false 
identity nssumcd by Eugene Brading, investigator Noyes 
contacted the Intelligence Division of the California 
,"\.ttorncy Genr.::r;-:i,l 's Office, and had a chec1~ run on the 
mysterious Dru<ling. 
l":oycs wc:ts told tha. t Eugene Hale Braciinq "is a real bad guy. 
Ire's got a long rap sheet and apparantly has Mc1fia connections." 
l~o:ire.s shortly thereafter obt<1ined a copy of 
(Jim Braden•s).police records. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 379 
Eugene Br;:i.ding's 
I 
• 
