-90-
- At sbme time during that <liscussion,. President Eisen­
hower said something -- I can no longer remember his words 
~- that came across to me as an order for the assassina­
tion of Lumumba who was then at the center of political 
conflict and controversy in the Congo. There was no dis­
cussion; the meeting simply moved on. I remember my sense• 
of that moment quite clearly because the President's state­
ment came as a great shock to me. I cannot, however, re­
construct the moment.more specifically. 
Although I was convinced.at the.time -- and·remained 
convinced when I thought 'about it later - - that the Presi- · . --· 
dent's statement was intended as an order for the-assas-
sination of Lumumba, I must ccmfess that in thinking about 
the incident more recently I have had some doubts. As is 
well known, it was quite uncharacteristic of President 
Eisenhower to make or announce policy decis:Lons in NSC 
meetings.·· Certainly, it was strange if he departed from 
·that normal pattern on a subject so sensitive as this. 
Moreover, it was not,· 1ong after this, I believe, that Lu­
mumba was dismissed as premier by Kasavubu in an act ion 
that was a quasi-coup. I have·come to wonder whether what 
I really heard was only an order for some.such political 
action. All I can tell you with any certainty at the 
present moment is my sense· of that moment in the Cabinet 
Room of the White House. (Johnson, 6/18/75, pp. 6-7) 
Johnson "presumed" that the President made his statement while "look-
ing toward the Director of Central Intelligence'' (Johnson, 6/18/~5, 
p. 11). He was unable to recall with any greater specificity the 
~ords used by the President (Johnson 9/13/75, p. 10). 
When asked about the strength of the possibility that he had 
heard only a general directive for the political overthrow of Lumumba, 
Johnson testified that it was his clear impression at the time of the 
meeting, and has remained so for the fifteen years since, that he had 
heard an assassination order: 
Q: . . . Would it be fair to say that although you al-
Tow for the possibility that a coup or some more general 
mt 50955 Docld.: 32423.')39 Page 336 
