SECRET 
27 March 1963 
VENEZUELA 
1. We have no acceptable figure on Venezuelan 
travel to Cuba. Liaison services maintain no records, 
and have no such capability. 
2. Reports from travel control points show 128 
Venezuelan nationals traveling to Cuba, but only 48 
returning. The names of most of those returning do 
not appear on the lists of those who went to Cuba. 
In the few cases where round-trip travel can be estab­
lished, the stay was generally short. We must con­
clude that Venezuelans who went to Cuba for training 
traveled at least one way, and in some known instances 
both, clan~estinely. 
3. On the basis of usually reliable agent reports, 
we believe that more than 200 Venezuelans received guer­
rilla warfare training in Cuba in 1962. Castro has 
made it plain that he assigns the first priority for 
revolution to Venezuela. 
4. At present there are probably about 100 men 
involved in the Venezuelan Communist Party (PCV) para­
military command attempting to terrorize the Federal 
District of Caracas. Sources in both the PCV and the 
Government of Venezuela estimate there are another 300 
guerrillas; in the field, although we know of no more 
than 150, in small units of about 20 men, who are 
under coordinated PCV command. Including terrorist 
groups of university students and paramilitary party 
formations in Maracaibo and other large cities, the 
total number involved in violence probably does not 
exceed 600. Only seven known to be engaged in these 
operational are known to have been in Cuba long 
enough for training. 
5. The PCV, however, in the first months of,1963 
has proven itself capable of implementing the terrorist 
and sabotage operations which last October it could only 
plan. Organization and coordination have improved, and 
sabotage has reached a level of sophistication in tech­
nique and materials which implies either the presence 
of outside experts or else a highly advanced stage of 
training. 
-38-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32283208 Page 42 
