-35-
\ ·It'was decided by those present that the Agency 
;--.__ must get- a message to Viaux warning him against 
any precipitate action. In essence the message 
should state: 
11
We have reviewed your plans and 
based on your information and ours, we come to 
the conclusion that your plans for a coup at 
this time cannot succeed. Failing, they may re­
duce your capabilities in the future. Preserve 
your assets. We will stay in touch. The time 
will come when you with all your other friends 
can do something. You Will continue to have 
our supper t." (15 October Memorandum of Conver­
sation, Kissinger, Karamessines, Haig) 
The meeting concluded, according to the Agency's record, "on Dr. 
Kissinger's note that the Agency should conti'nue keeping the pressure 
on every Allende weak spot in sight--now, after the 24th of October, 
after 5 November, and into the future until such time as new marching 
-
orders are given. Mr. Karamessines stated that the Agency would comply."* 
The following day CIA Headquarters cabled the results of the White 
House meeting to the Station in Santiago: 
2. It is firm and continuing policy that Allende 
be overthrown by a coup .... We are to continue to 
generate maximum pressure toward this end utiliz­
ing every appropriate r-esource. 
3. After the most careful c_onsideration it was 
determined that a Viaux coup attempt carried out 
by him alone with the forces now at his disposal 
would fail. Thus it would be counterproductive 
to our Track Two objectives. It was decided that 
CIA get a message· to Viaux warning him against 
• precipital:e action. (Headquarters 802, 16 Octo­
ber) 
The message was supplemented by orders to "continue to encourage him 
(Viaux) to amplify his planning; encourage him to join forces with other 
coup planners." (Headquarters 802, 16 October) The message concluded: 
"There is great and continuing interest i_n the activities of Tirado,. 
Canales, Valenzuela et al and we wish them optimum good fortune." (Ibid.) 
* Secretary Kissinger's recollection of the October 15 meeting is not 
in accord with that of Mr. Karamessines or the cable (Headquarters 802) 
that was sent the following day to the Station in Santiago. This mat­
ter will be discussed in Part V of this report. 
Hlf 5095.'i Doclcl: 32423525 Page 110 
-
, ...... , -· 
