6A 
2. 
[ 
4, 
5. 
6. 
7, 
8. 
PART' II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Requesting authority for release 
·a.. By teletype . 
At least four hours before the time of release, developments in t-he 
case, an outline of the release, and statement release· will be made 
UACB are to be furnished the Bureau. 
b. By telephone where time is of essence 
Confer with division head having supervision of the matter for 
investigative clearance and with[Press Services Office]for final 
press clearance. While good judgment must prevail, in important 
cases in w4ich a local newspaper deadline is approaching, it may 
be advisable to telephone the Bureau for clearance. 
Press releases are to be made personally only by the SAG or in his absence 
by the A.SAG. 
Releases are to be made both at headquarters and the local area affected 
by developments. All material prepared for· the public must be reviewed 
word for word. It is not :to contain words or phrases which might be 
regarded as objectionable or offensive to a member of any race, creed, or· 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized wherever • 
possible, and all press releases should be coordinated to eliminate any 
avoidable delays. 
In the absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the public inter­
est, no statement should be put in an announcement to the press to the 
effect that a subje-ct either has confessed or has admitted his crime-s 
without specific Bureau approval. In case of doubt, consult the Bureau. 
When the fact that a subject has given a confession is included in a com­
plaint and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press, a 11 no comment" reply 
should be given. The complaint is a court record and must be left to 
speak for itself. 
On-the-spot announcements by SAC are authorized in emergency situations 
in fhich good judgrrent so dictates. Emergency on-the-spot statements by 
Agents limited to their official identity and,. if known, the identity of 
fugitive or criminal in gun battie. If badly wanted fugitive apprehended 
in remote area and SAC absent, Agent may, in rare emergency only and where 
time of essence, furnish bare details. Contact by SAC with press should 
be effected immediately where press desires further details. 
In those instances in which a press release is issued at(FBIHQ,]television 
and radio media should be merely provided with a written copy of the press 
release, and Bureau personnel should not submit to· live, filmed, or tape~ 
recorded interviews of any kind, including the reading of the release it­
self, without prior Bureau authority. Tact and diplomacy must be exercised 
in de·clining to partic-ipate in such interviews. With respect to local 
press rel?ase.s, SACs may, when requested, make personal appea-rances o·n 
television and radio provided no interviews are conducted and there is 
absolutely no elaboration over and above the original press release. 
These conditions should be made ~nown in advance to television and radio 
station representatives when such requests are received.- Reading of these 
local press releases on the telephone to the news media should be done by 
the SAC or .A.SAG. 
In the absence of' special circumstances., Bureau Agents ·should never suggest 
or request a reporter or another representative of a newspaper or similar 
publication to withhold the publication of news. In the event that special 
circumstances do exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bureau prior 
to making any such request. • 
la 
3-27-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1061 
., 
/' 
,. 
( 
.( 
