14-00000 
( 
( 
Declaration of EDMUND COHEN 
4. The Central Intelligence Agency: (a) has made 
diligent records searches to locate and disclose to the JFK 
Assassination Records Review Board (the Board) all records 
in its.possession relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and the 
assassination of President Kennedy; and (b) is aware of no 
,other assassination-related records in its possession being 
withheld from the Board. 
5. With respect to the overall issues of search and 
review, and as explained in the attachments or otherwise 
included by reference, the CIA's Directorates of 
Intelligence (DI), Operations (DO), Science and Technology 
(DS&T), and Administration (DA} and the DCI Area Information 
Review Officer have certified to me that their respective 
offices or directorates have properly and fully responded to 
requests from the Board. In addition to these 
certifications, I have had briefings on the principal. 
searches conducted and have had all of my questions answered 
to my satisfaction. Accordingly, I believe that the Central 
Intelligence Agency has worked diligently with the Board to 
locate and. declassify, consistent with the President John F. 
Kennedy Assassination Records •Collectiop. Act of 1992, as , 
cµnended, reprinted at 44 u.s.c. 2107 note,.and other • 
statu~es, assassination-related records in its possession, 
in· order to make such records available to the public. 
:--~·:-\;~: There. are six attachments' numbered I ,through· ,VI I 
to this d~Chi.ration, which I incorporate hereiri"by--: ••• 
ref~rence. Attachment I addresses·the universe and scope of 
documents that have been the subject of CIA's review. 
Attachment II describes the methodology and types of the 
s~arches cond~cted. Attachment III describes, in general, 
the records declassified and released. Separate detailed 
indices will be provided when documents are released to the 
National Archives and Records Administration~ Attachment IV 
addresses questions raised by the Board regarding perceived 
gaps in CIA's records, including possible loss or 
destruction of records. Attachment V discusses specific 
requests from the Board and incorporates sp.ecif ic CIA 
responses by reference. Attachment VI addresses commitments 
which this Agency makes with regard to provision to the 
- National Archives- an.a Records Aaministration _of 
assassination-related documents, including· any documents 
which may be newly discovered or created subsequent to the 
tenure of the Board. 
2 
- •• , ',-, 1,' 
