107N 0 SECTION 107. -CURITY TI"FOID-11>.NTS 1.ND C01'1"FID~-~L SOURCES 
protect his security. Fellow members of the pertinent subversive 
organization may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect 
him to apply. Where a state requires notification of Bureau p_ayments 
to informants that would necessitate disclosure of their identity, 
then Bureau payments should be discontinued during the period they 
receive unemployment compensation benefits. 
9. ~andling money and property received by double agents 
a. Double agents must turn over to the Bureau any money or property 
received from their principals in connection with the double agent 
intelligence operation. This should be made clear to the double 
agent at tha inception of the op~rition (consider obtaining a signed 
statement to this effect). Ex·ceptions to this rule must be specifi­
cally approved by the Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements must 
be made for payments to double agents.for services rendered to the 
Bu.reau. 
b 0 Any money or property received by a double agent from his principal 
represents possible future evidence and the double agent should 
execute a statement describing the money received by type of currency, 
denomination, series of issue, and serial number and appropriately 
describing any other property received. This statement should be 
signed by ~he double age~t•s code 'name. 
c. Money or property recei·, .·l from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in acoo-rdance ·, ... ·,;:h section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
d. Bureau ,Agents receiving s_uch money or pro_perty from double agents. 
should make independent records for retention for 'purposes of refresh­
ing recollection in the event testimony is later necessary. 
0 • SEMI.ANNUAL LETTER 
.A semiannual letter should be submitted to the Bureau by e-ach office .as 
follows; 
1. List the symbol numbers of all security informants and confidential 
sources being paid for services or expenses on a regular basis. If such 
• confidential source has no symbol number, list his name. 
2. Also list the symbol numbers of all unpaid security informants. 
3. Se·l; forth any comments concerning the present status of the informant 
coverage of the office, together with information concerning what actions 
are being taken to improve the security informant coverage. 
4. As a separate section of the semiannual letter, list under "Headquarters 
City" and each resident agency all subyersive organizations broken down 
into each di vision and unit thereof, such· as cl.ubs, commi t·liees, and 
chapters. 
Under each unit the approximate membership, together with the symbol 
numbers and positions of security informants affording coverage, should 
be se·l; out. Where no informant cover~.ge exists or where coverage is 
provided by informants or sources who are not members, such factors should 
be shoYm relative to each unit. 
Semiannual letters may include any e-dditional pertinent inform-ation re 
informant coverage that may be helpful in over-all evaluation, such as 
informants in other divisions ,~o are occasionally utilized and highly 
placed ~informants who furnish a:rea-wide, national, or international 
information. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1521 
22 
6-13-61 
