- 2 -
Administration of the assassination plots .. On the other hand, McCone and the sur­
viving members of the Kennedy Administration testified that they did not believe 
a Castro assassination was per~issible without a direct order, t~at assassination 
was not within the parameters of the Administration's anti-Castro program, and 
testified that to their knowledge no such direct order was given to Helms. 
Before setting out the testimony in detail, we discuss below the Kennedy 
- 1\, 
Administration's 1962 covert action program, Operation Mongoose (as well as the~·--
events in 1961 leading to that program) which was designed to overthrow ·the Castro 
regime. An understanding of that program is essential to an evaluation of the testi-
mony on the issue of authorization. 
C. Events From the Bay of Pigs to the Establishment of Mongoose 
1. The Taylor Review 
On April 22, 1961, following the Bay of Pigs failure, the President requested 
General Maxwell Taylor t,o conduct a re-evaluation of "our practices and pro­
~rams in the areas of military and paramilitary, guerilla and anti-guerilla 
activity which fall short of outright war.
11 
The President hoped that Taylor 
would give special attention to Cuba. (Letter to Maxwell Taylor, April 22, 
• 1961) Robert Kennedy was to be Taylor's principal colleague in this effort. 
The resulting review of the U.S. policy in this area concluded: 
"We have been struck with the general feeling that there can be no 
long-term living with Castro as a neighbor. His continued presence 
within the hemispheric community as a dangerously effective exponent 
of Communism and Anti-Americanism constitutes a real menace capable 
of eventually overthrowing the elected governments in any one or more 
of weak Latin American republics. 
*** 
"It is recommended that the Cuban situation be reappr~ised in the light 
of all presently known factors and new guidance be provided for political, 
military, economic and propaganda action against Castro.
11 
(Report to 
the President, June 13, 1961, memorandum No. 4, p. 8) 
1 ·•.i 
i 
I 
••. ' 1- ... ,·.: :.~ ·;;._: IJ 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 138 
