I 
! ' 
In February 1960, Wiley did testify before HCUA as 
an expert regarding the 7th WfF and covered "violence" 
against himself and other ant·i-Communists and the Comi11u-
nist dominance of delegations. ' 
On or about 1 April 1960, the House Committee on 
Un-American Activities was interested in consultations 
with Wiley based on articles by Wiley appearing in the 
knerican Legion Magazine, Elks magazine, N~ti~rial Review, 
and the Ufranian Quarterly ~paren tl y ba·sed on Wi 1 ey I s 
observations of Iron Curtain countries derived from his 
travels to the USSR, the World Youth Festival in Vienna, 
and other Iron Curtain rountries during the summer of 
1959. (In February 1960, Wiley had testified before 
HCUA about his experiences at the Vienna Youth Festival.) 
The HCUA staff members interested in Wiley ¼ere Francis 
McNamara and Richard Arens. 
During the course of his trip to the WYF, Wiley 
apparently drew some official attention to himself in 
Israel. 
c:.~--=~ :!8 .,.'\:: .. :.;:.:st 2-9~0, ~ St:.~':' ['e;.2.rt~~!1t ~PITI0!"~T11.'1_11 ~ 
was forwarded to McCord regarding conversations William 
Anthony, Press Officer, American Embassy, Tel Aviv, Israel, 
had with Wiley at the American Embassy on 20 and 21 July 
1959. In substance, Anthoney stated Wiley represented 
himself as a columnist connected with the "Newhouse Chain" 
but in his questioning of Anthony about Israeli politics, 
he (Wiley) "tries to give the impression he either is in 
or just outside the Washington intelligence community." 
Upon receipt of this memo, McCord advised Morse Allen, 
SRS, "We need to straighten Wiley out on being too clan­
destine." 
Circa September 1959, Wiley prepared five reports 
relevant to some of his travels to the Middle East, Soviet 
Union and Austria attendant to activities of the World 
Youth Festival in Vienna in the summer of 1959. One report 
concerned a former Syrian Communist leader (Elias Mourkos); 
and Syrian intelligence agents. Another concerned lViley's 
observations as of 9 August 1959 when he was in Kiev, USSR, 
relative to an anti-regime student in Kiev. A third report 
-17-
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 20 
