107? - 0. 
P. 
Q .• 
SIG'.i:rnG Ol LC.lAL'.i:Y OATHS, .AFFIDAVITS, AND STATENE,iTS 
l. .Every effort should. be made to guide secu.ri ty informant,3 a'11ay f:r·o!n 
sjtu:diorn requiring thein ·!,o sign or fill out loy2.lty oaths or forms. 
2. Infor;.iant:, should. be CH.nt:i oned to keep the contact:: ag Age:it fully 
advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a 
for!-~ 
3. Advise J.1ureau promptly of all such s:ituations which cannot be avoided, 
4. Tl,.e Bureau ·,,ill consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
th0 informar~:: r:; :i::-elationship with the Bureau, together wii;h pertinent 
facts concerni: [ the informant's activity; liovH,ver, such situations 
m.u~;t be kept to a. minimum :in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
5. Er,c•l such situ?.tion r,rn.st be (iarefully considered anu Bure:'-U is to b~ 
advised as promptly as possible, togcthe~ with an appropri~tc recom-
r,wnilation for proposed ?.ction. • 
6. In no i:r,.t1t1,,ioe sJ-,ould. you permit an inform?nt to sign a loyalty oath 
in the ncf;ative. 
DJ SCOH'.cIHU.tD IN1~0Rt1AHTS 
1. Wh<ni the servjoes of an info:r-mant are d.isoon'tinued, mark the name card 
11<.•.,.ncelled. 11 Destroy the symbol card. l~ever destroy the name card. 
2. R:dile tL.c: name card in numerical order by symbol number in the symbol 
nt•in'qer index. If a discontinued informan·I; or a discontinued potential 
security infor,nant or confid,entia.l sourc.e to whom a symbol number was 
once assigned later is reactivated, remove his name card from tho· 
symbol nuubor index? mark it reactivated· ,vi th appropriate ·aate) note 
th.ereo:v. type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabe·bj,cally in the name card section o:f the index. 
3. When a potential security ·informant or conf:iden.tial source is dis-con­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been 1, , :,igned, des troy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4, Advise the Bu.reau(of the dat,e)when a potent.bl :informant or informant is 
discontinued and the roason therefor. 
5. A<lvise the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to te:itify 
in open court or befo·re administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all cases of security of Government employees type in which the ormant 
has furnished information mu:it be ascertained and tho Bureau adYised. in 
compliance with section 69F$J volume III, of this maJ:J.ual.. . . 
6. Review the :informant's file to determine if any copies or surm.,aries of 
co ;·respondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Depax•t­
mt--1t Is interest in using the informan·t for testifying when he beoomer. 
ava~labln as a witness ~re contained therein. In those casesin which it 
is evident tte Depa.rtment bas indicated a desire to consider. the inform­
ant furthex when'he becomes available, advise ~he Bureau in each suet 
substantive case, except in· those cases in which it. is obvious the statute 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When-all. 
above c.otion is completed, advise the Bureau. 
7. A statement shall also be made to the effect that the measures to·con-
t:ro l informants, set out in 8 below,· J:ia:ve boen considered a11.d recommenda-
tions shall be- made when it•appears that. such are wgrraJte~: • 
8, When the services of. an informant are dispontinued, maintl}.in ·c·lbse c·on­
taot with him so that tho informant will look to the Bure~u to~ advic~ 
aug. counsel prior,to taking aay a.ctjo·n which would be·f,g~ . .inst _t'h~ Bu:re,.,u's 
best :interests. When an ·iaforn:ant :is d} scont:i.nued, determine wne"ther 
he has pl2-ns for writing a book, magazine or new:.,paper article, or oi-her­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the 
deeirability of coming to tho Bureau for assistance a~d gtiidance rather 
than ma.king other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
NW_38.321 ~ld:.32989529 1622 
( 
