The Washington Post 
August 22, 1976 
Slain Mobster Claimed 
Cuban ink to JFI( Death 
. By Ronald Kessler and LauronC'e Stern 
war.hln~ton Post Staff WriteE~ .. 
Long before his recent murder, 
.John Hossclli. the CIA's underworld 
recruit in attempts to kill Fidel Cas-
• tro, had been privately claiming that 
agents of the Cuban premier, in· retali-
• ation, ,vere i'nvo!ved in the assassina• 
. tion of President ,John F. Kennedy. 
1 
Rosselli's bellef in a Cuban connec-
tion to the Kennedy assassination was 
: expressed through his attorney, Ed­
ward P. Morgan, to the FBI as long 
ago as :\larch, 1967, and also in private. 
, conversations with a longtime associ­
ate of Rosselli whff participated in 
• meetings between Rosselli 'and the 
CIA. 
An F'BI ''blind memorandum" on 
an interview • with Morgan dated 
March 21, 1967, was included, without 
identification of the interviewee, in . 
• last .June;s Senate Intelligence Com- ' 
mittee's report on the role of the in­
telligence community in the Kennedy 
assassination investigation. 
Morgan told the FBI that Rosselli 
anct another Morgan client had in­
formed him that Castro became aware­
of CIA assassination conspiracies 
against him and "thereafter employed 
teams of individuals who were dis­
patched to the. United States for the • 
purpose of assass111ating Mr. Ken-
nedy."· • • 
Because neither Morgan nor Ros­
se l!i was identified in the Senate re• 
. port, the significance of that portion • 
of the 106-page document was dis- . 
counted at the time it was published 
In June, before Rosse!li's iiisappear-
ance and the subsequent discovery of 
his body in an oil drum in Florida 
waters. The Washington Post, however, 
has confirmed that Morgan and Ros~elli 
. were the sources of the testimony that 
suggested a Cuban role in .. the Ken-
nedy murder. • 
l\Torgan's · account, according. to a 
summary of the FBI interview. was 
that Rosse!H had reached his conclu· 
sion about a Cuban connection to the' 
Kennedy assassination from 
';feedback" furnished by sources close 
to Castro who were involved in the C[A 
plots to assassinate the Cuban leader. 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 399 
"His (Morgan's) clients were aware 
of the identity of some of the individ­
uals who came to the United States 
for this purpose and he understood 
that two such individuals were now in 
the state of New Jersey,". the FBI in• 
. terview summary stated. . 
A long-time associate of Rosselli· 
who was . interviewed separately by 
: The Washington Post, said there was 
;' 110 question in the slain mobster's 
: mind that . President Kennedy was . 
: killed on Castro's behalf in reprisal 
for the CIA schemes against the Cu-
ban leader. • 
"He was positive: he was sure," said 
the associate, who knew Rosselli well 
. and was in contact with him before 
•· Rosselli disappeared from his Florida 
: home on July 28. Th~ associate, who 
: docs not want to be identified pub­
; licly, is scheduled to be interviewed 
•· this week by Dade County, Fla., homi-
; cide detectives. He was a party to Ros-
: selli's contacts in the early 1960s with 
CIA case officers overseeing the at­
tempts to assassinate Castro. 
Despite occasional speculation, the 
collective conclusion of all official 
U.S. government investigations into 
the Kennedy assassination-including 
.• the Warren Commission, the FBI and 
the CIA-has been that there was no 
evidence· that implicated the Castro 
· govemme'nt or any of its agents. 
However, the CIA's involvement in 
. the schemes to assassi'nate. · Castro 
was not divulged to the Warren Com• 
mission, and knowledge of them was 
confined until. 1967 to a small, elite 
. circle of the u:s. intelligence commu­
• nity. • President Johnson apparently 
'. first learned about the schemes only 
after a March 7. 1967, column by the 
. ]ate Drew Person, which prompted 
',Johnson to order a CIA investigation 
'. of the highly sensitive episode,·· 
Full details of the CIA-underworld 
·.'collusion in the plots to kill Castro 
· did not surface publicly until the pub­
• 1ication last year of .the Senate Intelli-
; gence Committee's assassination re' .. 
• port and the ensuing report last ,lune· 
on the possible role of the intelligence 
------- ·---
• 
