• • SECTION 1070 INTERNAL SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES; 107W 
AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS 
• "SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
• 
• 
230 Disinformation 
The passage of deceptive information by an OA is a complex operation 
which requires detailed planning and coordination between field office 
and FBIHQo This technique should be employed only in OA operations 
in which the foreign intelligence service has apparently accepted the 
bona fides of the OA, when the benefit will clearly outweigh the risk 
to the overall OA operationo 
24. OA cover story 
Be aware that a foreign intelligence principal may interrogate an OA 
in great detail as to how he secured his information, his family 
situation, his modus operandi, motivation, etc. Handling FBI SA must 
adequately prepare an OA for this probabilityo The most credible 
cover story is the one which involves the least fabrication. 
Unless security or other considerations dictate otherwise, the OA 
should personally obtain the information he passeso 
25. Receipt of money or property by OA 
Impress upon each OA that money or property received from a foreign 
intelligence principal or agent must be turned over to the FBI since 
retention of this money would put the OA in technical violation of 
Federal statutes, and this money may be used as evidence or exhibit. 
Compensation to the OA from the FBI for his cooperation is to be 
handled separately. Nominal or personal gifts, necessary for the OA's 
security and to maintain his relationship with the principal, may be 
given back to the OA by his handling FBI SA, following FBIHQ approval. 
Consider the desirability and feasibility of obtaining a signed state­
ment from each OA reflecting his understanding of this requirement . 
The obtaining of such a statement is not mandatory, but desirable. 
Department attorneys have advised that, while it is not necessary to 
preserve that actual currency received by an OA, it is highly desirable 
to do so in cases in which prosecution could ensue. Whether or not the 
actual currency is retained, obtain a written statement from the OA 
describing the currency received by[type of note and issuing Federal 
Reserve Bank,]denomination, series number, and serial number; and 
also make an independent record of such currency. 
The above instructions are not to be interpreted to require the im­
pounding of funds paid to an OA by a foreign government or foreign 
intelligence service for goods or services rendered by the OA in 
legitimate, business transactionso 
26. Payments to FCI assets - either OA or IA 
ao When deemed necessary and expedient, each SAC is authorized to 
expend up to $400 to develop FCI assets. This money may be used 
to pay for services and/or expenses. This authority is renewable 
by FBIHQ if the initial $400 has been expended. Blue slip re­
claiming payments from FBIHQ need not summarize information 
obtained since proliferation of this information could possibly 
jeopardize asset's security • 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
35 
2-13-75 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1471 
