Rusk testified that'he had never been informed of any 
Castro assassination plans or undertakings and had no knowledge of any 
such activity. (Rusk, p. 52). 
Rusk further testified that he found it "very hard to 
i 
believe'' that ~resident Kennedy or Rob~rt Kennedy would have, in the course 
,, 
of urging action against Castro, sanctioned the use of any measure against 
Castro.*/ Rusk said that, while it was "possible" that a person, in good 
faith, might have thought specific courses of action were authorized from 
' ~ • 
the emphasis given to taking action against Castro, nevertheless Rusk testi­
fied that with respect to a Castro assassintion, 
"It would have been an abuse ofi the-President and the 
Attorney General if somebody had thought they were 
getting that without confirming that this was, in fact, 
an official, firm policy decisipn. (Rusk, pp. 98-99). 
With respect to whe~her President .Kennedy or Robert 
I 
Kennedy might have communicated directly with Helms or Harvey on a Castro 
assassination effort, Rusk testified that, based on his experience and the 
manner in which foreign affairs matters were handled, I don't see how it could 
have happened." (Rusk, p. 99).**/ 
*/ "Senator Huddleston ... (Do) your contacts with Robert Kennedy or Presi­
dent Kennedy, indicate to you that they were agitated to such an extent 
about Cuba and Mongoose progress that in a conversation with someone 
urging them to get off their rear-end and get something done that they 
might convey the message that they meant anything, g~ to any length to 
do something about the Castro regime? 
"Mr. Rusk. I find it very hard to believe that Robert Kennedy standing 
alone, or particularly ~obert Kennedy alleging to speak fo resident 
Kennedy, would have gone down that trail ... " 
**/"Senator Mondale ... We asked General Taylor yesterday whethef'.J{~\thought 
something of informal, subterranean, whatever kinds of CO!l1J!lUn.~9..a'tions 
from the highest level to Helms would have been possible withciut his 
(Footnote continued on following page.) • 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 198 
