( 
(_ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
(6) Character 
: ,., 
j 
SECURITY INVESTtGATiue 87D 
(a) Top functionaries 
Internal Security {or Racial Matters if subject. is a black 
nationalist) - followed by let.tars designating organiza­
tional affiliation or nationalistic tendencies. Examples: 
(b) Others 
Internal Security - C 
Inter~al Security - SWP 
Racial Matters - NOI 
Security Matter - :followed by letters designating .orga~iza­
tional affiliation or nationalistic tendencies. Examples: 
Security Matter 
_Security Matter 
Secwity Matter 
Security Matter 
C 
SWP 
X (native fascist) 
M {miscellaneous} 
When a subject is deleted as a top functionary, character 
shall be changed from internal security to security matter 
in first[communication]following deletion and all subsequent 
[communications.] When a security matter subject is desig­
nated a top functionary, first report after designation and 
all subsequent reports snall bear internal security charac­
ter. Communications regarding subjects who are employed in 
key facilities should bear words "Key Facilitytt in character. 
Communications regarding subjects who are members of Commu· 
nist .. Party, USA, National Committee should bear words 
"National Committee 11 in character. Black nationalist inves­
tigations and racial matters should be given character set 
out in section 122, volume IV, of this manual. 
Status . 
All cases shall be carried in a pending status until all active 
investigation required by preceding instructions has been 
conducted. Thereafter, status shall be a·s follows: 
(a) Top functionaries 
I. Pending inactive 
(A} Reports a.re to be submitted annually. Forty-five 
days prior to date a report is due, each such case 
shall be placed in a pending-active status for 
preparation of report so that report can be sub­
mitted at designated time. 
(b) Key facility cases 
Key facility cases are to be maintained in pen~ing-inactive 
status. {See 87D 7c (4).) 
{c) Other security index subjects 
I. Closed 
(A) Cases of all other security index subjects must be 
followed by administrative ticklers set up so as to 
insure submission of a periodic investigative re­
port according to priority designation[for priority 
I and priority II.) If, following investigation, 
no subversive data is developed and only av·ailable 
, "information consists of verification of re.sidence 
and employment and negative contacts with security 
informants and sources, submit in lieu of a report 
·~ letter (~orm FD-400) to Bureau setting forth 
identities of informants and sources contacted, any 
additional administrative data deemed necessary, 
and ~orm FD-305 properly executed. Cases shall be 
opened and assigned 45 days prior to date periodic 
report is due. 
73 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Page 2070 
•• , 2-13-70 
