87D 
(6) 
SECT,·-·. 87 SECURITY I!{VESTIGATIOHS 
, - ✓-0 • 
Data to appear on separate attached card 
I. The following data must be placed on a separate 
card to be a ttachcd to reverse side~ of the s ecui·i ·f;y 
index card being filed in the geographical, spenial, 
or unavailable sections. Data will not be attached to 
the security in(lcx card filed in the alphabct:i.c;,.] 
section. These cards contain printed captions t~ 
assist in recording the descriptive :i.nfo:r·mation. 
Captions arc not all-inclusive and should be augmented 
by other data requiredo 
(A) Complete description 
(B) Notation that security index flash notice has been 
submitted for posting in Identification Division 
(C) Photo graph, with date taken placed below 
{D) Dangerous characteristics of subject, including 
• notation if :::ubject possesses firearms 
(E) Other d:~ta which will assist in effecting appre­
hension of subject, :::uoh as directions to residence 
or employment, where subject not situated in usual 
locations, listing of number of min.or children 
and aged dependents 
II. If descriptive data have not been obt.ained~ case must 
be kept pending and investigation condu!)ted to develop 
this information. Upon posting of security index flash 
notices in security index oases, the field will be 
furnished the FBI number and fingerprint olassifioat·1 on 
which should be affixed to reverse side of the seour: 
index cards filed in geographical, special and unav 
able sections. 
III. Form FD-186 is used for purpose of compiling infoi • 
to be posted on the separate card attached to back· 
the security index card filed in the geographical s~oticn 
of index. Form may be filled in by the Agent handling 
the case in legible handwriting and forwarded.±o clerical 
employee designated to post this information on the 
attachment to the geographical, special or unavailable· 
sections. After the.security index card has been pre•­
pared at Bureau and sent to field and information appear-
·i~g on FD-186 has been posted on the card to be attached, 
it shall be filed in the investigative ·case file • 
. FD-186 may also be used to record.information that a 
security index subject has been physically observed 0 
Descriptive data developed during observation of the 
subject should be noted on FD-186 for posting. 
Arrangement of the security index 
(a) At Bureau . 
The entire s eouri ty in,: -·x is maintained at the ·Bureau 
through the utilizatior: ,•i: IBM tabulating cards e The·· 
white 5- by 8-inoh securlty index oards·are printed by this 
ma.chine and transmitted to the field •. "Through t.he use 
ot this device, the security index can be broken.down 
into the various categories of information appea.ring on 
the s eouri ty index cards when such breakdowns become neoes sary 
for administrative purposes at the Bureau~ This procedure 
makes it possible to maintain the content of the security 
index in the field and at the Bureau in an identical con­
dition at all times. 
An alphabetical breakdown of the true names and all aiiases 
of security index subjects is also maintained at the Bureau 
for administrative purposeso 
:. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 808 
50 
11-8-55 
