1' 
r-------------.:---"-~ ___ _,;;=.a:a.;;..::.;.,a=.....;;;= ....... .....:....;... _ ___.r,_. ------------- .. AGENT REPORT '-~-✓ 
Fo, u•n oi thi• io,m, ~"" FM J0•l7(C); Al,! 361·130; rhe proponent ogency i, rhe Office of rh@ AHi§tant Chilli oi '.\tolt to, lnt11lliggn~ll-
1. NAMf Of ~UDJCCT OR TrTLC Of IN'l°'NT 2, 0"'U SUIMITTfl) 
6 Fsbrua 2 
3, C:ONTROL SYMIIOL OR flLf NUMICII 
4. REPORT OF FIN0INCS 
John wanted to know on what frequency the radios operatedo John stated that 
he hated to be a Disc Jockey, that he had more important things to do0 
John also stated that they had some mighty fine missiles in Soest (MCJ81J), 
FRG. John stated that the Russian Army was i'a.r superior to anything in 
Europe. He talked at length about the Russian Army. Sources felt that 
John was serious about what he was saying and not trymg just to make them 
uneasy. John asked Margulies if he was a CID agent. Margulies replied that 
he wa.s not. John talked about and named every intelligence agency of the 
United States. He mentioned Iil, OSS, ONI, CIA, CID and the FBI. John said 
that Israel's intelligence network was far superior to that of any countries' 
in Europe or that of the United States. John spoke fluent German and English 
and spoke Spanish and Russian to Sources to prove that he knew how. John 
said he learned to speak English in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic 
(USSR), and said 1'we have to learn many languages •11 John kept asking about 
Ramstein Air Force Base and stated that he had been to the NCO Club at 
Ram.stein. John said he hated the FRG and.that he wanted to go back to 
the German Democratic Republic (GDR). John stated that he goes to the GDR 
often and that he)has been·to Moscow (NGA), USSR. John expounded on how 
much better it was to live in the GDR. John cl.aimed to have a cousin or 
nephew, Sources could not recall which, who was a Major in the army in the 
GDR. John talked about brainwashing at length and how information could 
be gotten from people without the threat oi' physical violence. John se.id that 
the American Prisoners of 1'J"ar ll1. North Viet Nam would never be the same 
even after they were ryleased. John stated that his hobby was just listening 
and lookmg around. Sources said that they had to go because tommorrow 
was a busy day e.nd they had field exercises at 0900 hours. John quipped in 
"Don't you mean that you and the conv9y are leaving at 0600 hours?)!, and 
added that tomm.orrow whould be a busy day from him alsoo John mentioned that 
he had stolen somethmg and had. sold it. John described the object in great 
'detail, as to size, dimensions, and color, but never said what it was. 
Sources could only recall th~t it was about one and a half feet long with 
fins on the end. Sources thought from the description that John gave, that 
he was talking about a mortar projectile or some kind of small rocket. 
When Sources left the bar at 0430 hours, they waited for John outside the 
bar, but he did not come out. They then proceeded through the parking lot 
where their jeeps were parked to their hotel across from the Lord Nelson. 
At 0515 houBs, Margulies looked out of his hotel window and saw John leave 
the Lord Nelson. John proceeded directly to the jeeps in the parking lot 
Page_2_of 3 Pages 
5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAi. AGENT 6. SIGNATURE Of SPEOAI. AGENT 
, NW 38613 Docld:34530611 Page 3 
