13-00000 
• .. ;-,.··.-:-· 
.. : ,~-•\: :: ... 
-·::~~f-i-::•:~-
J. -~-
·L_. ---------: 
III. WIIAT TARGETS WAS THE AGENCY ABLE TO COVER AND WITH WHAT 
FREQUENCY AND CONTINUITY? _ 
The following remarlcs apply to agent coverage only, that is, 
coverage by means of individuals on the island of Cuba, or elsewhere 
in the world. Audio devices or telephone taps on Cuban installations 
abroad or Cubans living abroad have produced intelligence which has 
.served operational _ends, in other words, information which has pro­
vided critical data used in the spotting, assessment and recruit~ 
ment of agents. Due to the standard security measures taken in 
most official installations, thoso technical opetations have been 
able to provide only a limited amount of positive intelligence. In 
general, agents have produces information essentially in accordance 
with their known access at the time of recruitment. Responsibility 
for many of the agents dealt with during the present.reporting period 
wns simply assumed by TFW from past efforts against.Cuba. In many 
irtstances, these agents had been recruited strictly on an "availa­
bility" basis, and indeed had no particular access. A maj.or effort 
was mnde at the inception o:f-TFW to winnow out those persons who • 
could make no contribution and to redirect those who could. -This 
process of redirection, which was conducted via time consuming and 
generally inefficient S/W channels, resulted in the conversion of 
a number of heretofore unusable agents into sound, pertinent report­
ing sources;. Though_, in most instances, TFW operations officers 
had never had personal contact with these agents, they·succeeded 
in inducing many of them to spot, develop and recruit sub-agents. 
This technique succeeded, despite the obstacles involved in 
vettlng candidates and advising agents via S/W means. In regard 
to.· tho recruitment of new agent assets during the reporting period, 
-TFW was able to be guioea by specific, priority needs. Accordingly, 
the many new assets acquired were chosen because of specific access 
to target personalities or institutions. The assigned targets and 
extent of coverage are indicated below. 
A. Military 
During the reporting period, in the latter half, the Agency's 
major effort to obtain intelligence from agent sources, .centered 
on Cuban military af:f11:irs. The reporting obtained covered matters 
ranging from military policy to detailed OB. Almost every agent 
contributed to this effort, with the consequence that the coverage 
·of military matters was wide-sprend nnd continuous. Despite·the 
fact that 95% of this information was provided via S/W (much of it 
·from totally untrained sub-sources who had no military experience), 
such was the detail and volume of the data, that our_agents were 
able to give us highly significant information on troop and materiel' 
movements, location and nature of military sites, etc. The follow­
ing agents served a~ the major sources of military iiformation 
-during the reporting period: 
....... :, 
,v 
