L 
r I 
! 
' I ' I ! 
I t 
l 
l 
' ! 
( 
\ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
.( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
'-
2. 
• SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORY!ANTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 107G 
tions of statement which apply to particular indi viduai" or organiza­
tion. Of course, entire statement should be filed in informant's sub­
file. This procedu~e should be employed unless logical reason 
dictates otherwise. [When pre-paring lengthy channelizing memor- . 
anda reporting material of interest to other offices, limit the 
number of copies prepared for ea.ch other such office to two. Clearly 
indicate next to the name of the receiving office, the number of 
the page containing information pertinent to that office and note 
on cover page that distribution of material to the receiving (i.eld 
office files is left ·to discretio~ of the receiving office. If 
the channelizing memorandum includes names of individuals who merely 
attended a meeting or gathering and played no important role, the 
reporting office is to attach to the channelizing memorandum a one­
page memorandum listing the names of all individuals who were merely­
in attendance and had no important function. The prep.a.ration and 
distribution of the additional copies of .the one-page a,ttachment 
are left to the discretion of the receiving office.] 
g. Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, advise trial 
attorney that informant not only furnished information concerning 
instant case put also provided oth~r statements not pertinent to 
case at issue. Trial attorney will thus be prepared in event in­
formant testifies on direct examination or cross-examination that 
he furnished information in addition to his testimony. 
Recording written and oral information 
.a. Written by informant . . . . . 
(1) May be in handwriting or hand printing of informant or typed. 
(2) Original only should be submitted and informants sliould never 
retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously 
c:P.eck informants to see that they do not keep _a_ny notes or 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
(10) 
(11) 
(12) 
copies. 
Pre pare on paper devoid of any Burea-u markings or identifica­
tion. 
Date when informant prepares statement should be placed at 
top of statement. 
All information obtained by informants regarding each meeting 
or separate activity in which they engage should be sub­
mitted in one statement. 
Informants should include in statements specific dates and 
places; purpose of meeting or activity being related; iden-
tities of speakers and persons present, plus their known status 
in any group; and specific activity or comments of individuals 
pre~ent. _ 
Informant should identify statement by affixing his code name 
immediately under the last written line on each page.. Any cor-
rections, erasures, changes, or additions should be identified 
by informant affixing his code name or initials of his code name. 
Agents' names should never appear on any page. 
Informant should refer to himself in body of statement by his 
true name and use third person. 
Agent receiving written statement should not make any corrections, 
additions, deletions, etc., or place any markings whatever there on. -
Do not block stamp or serialize. Receipt and serialization 
should be recorded on form FD-306 or on channelizing memorandum 
containing applicable items set forth on form FD-306. 
Extraneous material should be kept to absolute minimum. Informants 
should leave out such items as: 
{a) Any reference concerning Director and Bureau 
(b) References to other documents and statements submi·tted by 
informant 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1752 
9 
11-15-71 
