( 
( 
L. 
[ 
(_ 
PART II 6K 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Included in tr.3 index may be individuals in Government, busine·ss, or 
industry. Do not include law enforcemen·b officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of informationo Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA f"acility, or 
b:Y type of information. • 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. Ari index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely looked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a locked, steel file cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in the field office. The cards shall pertain only to the 
territory covered; under such circumstances there sb,all be no duplioa.te 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete 
or when it is determined a source is deceased. 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not remove 
L 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information index except when it has been determined that source is 
deceased, at which time general index card can be destroyed immediately. 
Under all other conditions the general index cards shall be retained for 
20 years subsequent to the removal of cards from the special source of 
information index. 
2. Files 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparation of sources 
of information 0 
3. Security and extremist sour~es of information 
Every six months a ietter o~" justification (FD-4O1) should be submitted 
4. 
SAC 
lo 
2. 
3. 
to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and extremist 
sources of information. Follow instructions set out in section 13OH, item 
2b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions. If the security or extremist 
source of information is not being paid on Bureau authorization and is 
being used regularly, the Agent handling the source of information must 
dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing.the same certifi-
cation as to stability and reliability as required. by payment letters. 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such actions might be mis-
construed. • 
CONTACTS 
SAC contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, can 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assistance to the FBI upon th~ request of the SAC, 
4 complete file review must be mate and an FD-9 submitted on each contact 
(file review on spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary unless 
special circu~stances prevail). 
SAC contacts must be approve~ by the Bureau. Request this approval by 
letter to the Bureau captioned"_,.....,,__ __ , SAC Contact." Mark the letter 
for the attention of the[Files and Communications]Division. Use the 
following subheadings in the order given: 
a. Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Results of Identification Division check 
f. Derogatory information 
g. Recommendation of SAC 
Submit an original and two copies, but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication. If the SAC contact is 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to the field. If the contact is not approved, a letter is to be submitted 
to the field stating why the individual cannot be'used as an SAC contact. 
7 
6-27-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529. 217 
