( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
( 
[ 
PART II 
• 
6E - G 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
3. Auxiliary offices ar, to advise the office of or~gin by letter of the 
results obtained through a circular letter. ·office or" origin should 
summarize the results in its next report. 
4. One copy of the circul~r letter is to be filed. A list of addresses is to 
be attached. Upon the- receipt of a reply, the addresseeis name is· to be 
checked to indicate this fact. Replies ·which are entirely negative 
should no.t be filed unless there is reason for doing so. Only negative 
replies are to be destroyed after handling in accordance with item 3 
above. Sub-A files may be used when the number of replies to be filed 
is large. . . , 
[5. [A 66 file may be opened to retain copies of circular letters distributed 
_in order to facilitate the handling of incoming inquiries·and replies. 
Only one copy of each circular letter is to be filed therein. If the 66 
file is maintained, the material therein is to be destroyed after it i~ a 
year old if it is no longer needed.] 
[ 6.] Circular letters and other information- to ·be distributed or· released to 
the public must be so worded as to be unobjectionable to ·any race, creed, 
or religion. . 
[7.] Trade publications may, with advance Bureau approval, be used to publicize 
information concerning fugitives known to· be active in particular trades, 
businesses, or professions. The field office where the publication is 
located, should check its indices concerning· the publication, as well as 
the person or persons who will have to be contacted, before seeking Bureau 
approval, and sufficient identifying data should be furnished so that an 
appropriate Bureau indices check may be made. 
F. RJ~IO BROADCASTS 
G. 
Radio broadcasts without advance Bureau approval may be made in hot-pursuit 
fugitive cases. Care must be exercised in broadcasting a license number 
believed used by fugitive as it may be disposed of to an innocent third per­
son. 
FIELD OFFICE LISTS 
1. Law enforcement officials 
Page 
a. On March 1 of each year all field offices shall forward to the Bureau· 
in duplicate, and with a space left between the officials of each 
department, a list of such law enforcement officials and agencies 
whose cooperation might be helpful. Indicate by an asterisk any 
change which was not previously called to the Bureau's attention. 
(1) Chiefs of police 
(2) Sheriffs 
(3) State police or highway patrol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
U. S. Marshals and deputies 
Ranking Federal law enforcement officers 
Wardens of penal institutions 
District attorneys or county prosecutors 
Railway police (if desirable) 
Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins 
Any other officials who receive identi~ication orders 
b. Changes in the list are to be reported in duplicate to the Bureau 
as they occur. 
c. Letters advising the Bureau of changes are to be set up as indicated: 
No. City 1)eleted Added Remarks 
4 
7 
3 
Center City, Iowa 
[zip code] 
Jonesville, Iowa 
(zip code] 
Brovmsville, Iowa 
(zip code] 
John M. Doe, Sheriff 
Wayne County 
Richard Brown 
Chief of Police 
George Smith 
Constable 
3a 
1-27-67 
R. Roe, Sheriff 
Wayne County 
George Smythe 
Deceased 
successor 
not named 
To show 
correct 
spelling 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 300 
