[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
,..:,· 
SECTI.87. SECURITY IlNESTIGATIONS • 87D 
(c) In the case of an individual previously the subject of 
investigation, the case should be brougAt up to date by the 
prompt submi.ssion of a report in the event there is unreported 
information conta.in·ed in the file. If reports have not 
previously been submitted in the case, a letterhead memorandum. 
summarizing the available subversive data should accompany 
the initial letter advising the Bureau of the proposed 
travel. 
{d} Information concerning these subjects' proposed travel abroad, 
including information concerning their subversive activities,. 
is furnished by the Bureau to the Department of State, Central 
Inte+ligence Agency, and legal attaches if the proposed travel 
is in areas covered by such and, frequently, requests are 
\a~ made of one or all of the abo~e to place stops with appropriate 
1-~~ security services abroad to be advi~ed of the activities 
• •• ·t;,'."-·.· -'·of these subjects. • .. •• • 
·-----,~=:--:---··_.:..,·: •• _"(e-}'- Wlien"'information is recei,ed th£t- an ind:i,.vtdua.l with a·.· 
subversive background[falling within the categories set 
out previously herein]is forming a tour group fQ,' foreign 
travel or an organization which is considered su:.,ersive 
is sponsoring such a tour, advise a.ppropr.i:>.te of.iices under 
the caption of the tour name or ·the organ],zation sponsoring 
.. , the tour of the identities of the individuals participating 
.. : ··:·.,,.in.the tour and ·furnish the Bureau _a let.terhead memorandum 
·: •• _._,: •• -··.::·,;·~:-'"'·.:··:·:suitabie fof di.ssemination to the State Department, the 
•• • • . • ·: C.entral Intelligence Agency, and appropriate legal attaches, 
including therein all readily available information pertaining 
to the tour, such as itinerary, pertinent dates, names of 
individuals making up the tour ~ith addresses, if available, 
.and a· thumbnail sketch of the organization or individual 
sponsoring the tour. • 
Letterhead memoranda. relating to the tours will b~ dissem­
inated by the Bureau with a statement that, as individual.s 
participating are identified, recipients will be furnished 
i'ri th memoranda under the in.di vi du.al case caption. where 
those individuals are found ·to have subversive backgrounds . 
. Therefore, the appropriate field offices should irmuediately 
identify and submit individual memoranda concerning such 
individuals. The details of travel will be replaced by a 
reference to the memorandum previously prepared under the 
caption of the organization sponsoring the tour. Prepare 
individual memoranda only in the oases of individuals nith 
subversive backgrounds[falling within the categories set 
out previously herein.] 
In addition,• appropriate offices should submit a letter to 
the Bureau under the organization caption listing the names 
of those individuals residing within ·their territory who 
are traveling. with the tour group and on whom no subversive 
information is found. 
NW 38321, Docld:32989529 Page 844 33a 
-61 
.... 
