( 
[ 
( 
4, 
5. 
60 
PART II 6D - E 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
h. To include as many pertinent photographs as possible to make the 
write-up interesting. The photographs should not necessaril.y be of 
subjects alone but should be of paraphernalia used by the criminal, 
photographs of unusual loot obtained, scenes of various lac.ales, etc. 
If photographs submitted do not belong to the FBI, it is necessary 
to inform the Bureau of their source and whether the owner of the 
photographs has any objection to their being r·eproduced in publi­
cations. 
i. Each portion of· the write-up should be d·ocumented as to the identity 
of the report or other communication from which facts were taken. The 
documentation should be set off by parentheses and follow immediately 
the portion of the write-up to which it pertains. 
Do not: • 
a. Identify law enforcement officers by name but by title and NA affilia­
tion 
Show aliases of subjects of Dependents Assistance Act 'of 1950 
Show aliases of victims of WSTA cases 
Use comp'licated sentence structure 
e, Use technical references to statutes 
f. Express personal opinions 
g. Reveal identity of confidential informants 
h. Use Bureau expressions like 11the subject 11 and "the Bureau" 
i. Prepare interesting case write-ups on juveniles, sex offenders, and 
parole violators but submit these by letter 
j. Use adjectives excessively 
Transmittal 
Set forth all data necessary for Bureau's consideration 
of write-up and then follow with interesting case datao 
routing slip, attention[External Affairs]Div.ision. . . 
Dissemination 
at the beginning 
Transmit by • 
New ones issued by the Bureau should be carefully reviewed for possible 
-interest to· feature writers in field office territory and consideration 
given to supplying them to appropriate writerso If there is an ~ppreci­
able passage of time after.issuance, obtain Bureau approval before ~e­
leaseo Pertinent ppotographst if available;will be furnished by the 
Bureau on requesto 
E. CIRCULAR LETTERS, ·TRADE .AND BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS 
1. Circular letters must be approved in advance by the Bureau and sent in 
by the office initiating the request. . 
2, SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-
type • institutions within their own divisions to expedite circularization 
of known serial numbers of money included in the loot taken in a bank 
robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny. On a highly selective basis, 
on approval of the SAC, leads may be set out to contiguous qffices to 
circularize banking-type institutions in those divisions, and the Bureau 
should be notified that this action is being taken unless advised to 
the contrary. Communications setting out such leads must include suf­
ficient facts to enable the Bureau tp properly evaluate and justify the 
additional ciroularization. In all other cases prior Bureau approval 
must be obtained.in accordance with existing rules governing circular 
letters. In all instances the circular letter must include the following: 
a. A.brief concise statement concerning the bank robbery, bank burglary, 
or bank larceny and the fact that included in the loot or money 
taken was money, the serial numbers of which are known 
b. List of kn.own serial numbers accor.ding to denomination, series· year 
if known, alphabetical order, and numerical sequence 
c. A statement that the matter is to be treated confidentially 
d. A cautionary statement that no bank employee should take any action 
which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety 
e. The address and the telephone number of the field office with a 
statement that any person should contact the field office by calling 
collect 
3 
2-27-74 
;NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1091 
