107U 
\ 
SECTimr 107 .• ECURITY IUFOR11AHTS A1fD SOURCES 
5. Utilization 
a. If confidential source is to be used for assistance in security 
inve!'t:i.~;,,tion~, secure Bureau appi·oval, and background dat:t must 
be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is required 
for potential security informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters i~ whic~ the 
frequency of contact is dependcn·l; upon circumstances of th-e indi v:i.d11al 
case, conf:i.dential sources on Hhom pend.ing files a.re i:naintained shpuld 
also bo contacted at least once every two weeks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
c. Records of contacts with confidential sources who have pending files 
may be posted. 
d. Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by the Agent 
or Agents specifically designated for that purpose. 
e. The letter to the Bureau r~questing authority to use a sub:eot 
as a confidential source is to set out clearly the following_informa-
tion: • 
( 1) Ba.ckground informa.tion, including date and place of birth, 
citizenship status, reside:noe, employmen·!;, credit and arrest 
record, and service record, if any 
(2) D~tails of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential source, together with the result::: of any 
interviews conducted with him 
( 3) A sta·bement to the effect subject is being considered ·a. con­
fidential source and that he will. be advised he is not a 
Bure~rn employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
ship with the Bureau. In addi·bion, a statemeut should be made 
that you will be a.lert to be certain subject is not a plani;., and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be adYised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters. 
f. One of the required copies of the letter requesting authority to use 
a subject as a confidential source should consist only of the firi:t 
page of ·!;he letter, If the request is approved at the Bureau, a 
stamped notation will be placed on the single-pti.ge copy and it will 
be re·turned to the field indicating that authority is granted to • 
consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
au·l;hori ty are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subjc:ot is 
sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background information 
obtained. 
6. Securit¥ confidential sources - certification of stability and payments 
a. Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to secur"ity confidential 
sources, See 107N, 3b, for form of lette~. • • 
b. If the security source is not being paid on Bureau authorization and 
is being used regularly, the Ag~nt handling the source must dictate 
a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification 
as to stability and reliability as required by payment lette~s. 
7, Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such actions might be 
misconst-r-ued. 
8. Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau[of the date]when 6onfidential source is discontinued~ and 
the reasons therefor. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1359 
28 
4-13-64 
., : 
........ , 
( 
\ 
