13-00000 :-----
Robert M. McNamara, Jr., Esq. 
July 15, 1998 
~~5 ' 
Collection (consisting of CIA officer Russ Holmes' working files relating to the Kennedy 
assassination) into the JFK Collection. The Review Board recognizes that many 
documents within the Holmes files may be duplicates of CIA documents found in the 
CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection or Oswald 201 file. Nonetheless, the Review Board 
considers placement of the Holmes files into the JFK Collection to be of paramount 
importance in view of the selection and organization of documents that was made by a 
CIA officer. ·Accordingly, the CIA has committed to placing into the JFK Collection, by 
September 1998, all documents from the Holmes files not found elsewhere in the CIA 
materials at NARA. Duplicates of documents found elsewhere in the open JFK 
Collection can be processed after September 1998. 
Given the unique organization of the Russ Holmes files, however, the Review Board 
requests that CIA make every effort to process those files, in their entirety, as soon as 
possible. Our understanding is that CIA will attempt to place the complete set of 
Holm.es files, including duplicates, into the JFK Collection by December 1998 but 
absolutely no later than September 1999. 
4. Custody of CIA Assassination Records to be Released in 2017 
We have discussed with CIA its concerns regarding physical custody of certain records 
whose release has been postponed, unqer the JFK Act, until 2017. CIA has indicated 
that it may want to retain physical custody of certain postponed records pending 
disclosure in 2017. 
The Review Board believes that original, postponed rec:9rds should presumptively be 
held by NARA in accordance with the JFK Act. See 44 U.S.C. § 2107(5)(e)(2) ("Each 
Government office shall ... transmit to the Archivist ... all assassination records the 
public disclosure of which has been postponed ... to become part of [NARA's] " protected Collection.") Accordingly, all postponed assassination records of the CIA 
shotild presumptively be transferred to the legal and physical custody of NARA by 
September 30, 1998. The Review Board requests that the originals of any postponed 
. records from the Oswald 201 file, the Oswald Office of Security file, and the Marina 
Oswald 201 file be placed in the protected portion of the JFK Collection by September 
1998. The Review Board understands that originals of postponed records from the CIA­
HSCA Sequestered Collection and the Holmes Collection would be transferred in 
September 1999 after duplicates have been processed. 
To the extent CIA believes that certain other records, particularly those designated as 
NBR, must remain in CIA's physical custody until 2017, we suggest further discussions . 
