107:f 
[ 
[ 
4, 
5, 
6, 
SECTION" 10: l SECURITY rnirnmIAN'l'S AND con:n /rIAL SOURCE::; 
•· • Four-mo11th cvalua-t;j_on of informants ncd; paid on B.ureau authority 
If the informant is not being pa.id on Iluro,m authorization, n. c,ormnuni­
cation must be transmitted to the Bureau every four months after the 
date of designation containing the same information set out above in 
subsection 3b except ·those items concerning p?.ymcnts. Recommendation 
of SJ.G regarding continu;).nce of informant should also be sot forth Ull.Gil. 
·rn espionage and foreign nationality cases comment is necessary regarding 
only those applicable items in subsection 3b, 
Receipts 
When p::i.yments are ma.de to anyone for info:rrnation or assistanoo on security 
matters, either on the SAC 1 s authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obtained in e-v-ery inst~mcc in which it is possible to do so. If a 
re,ieipt cannui; be obtained for a p2.rticular paymen·r., complete oircumst<'..nces 
should be set forth on the blue slip at th6 time reimbursement is claimed. 
a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self--sufficient 
so that, if it becomes ncc'!SSc.ry to introduce the recei:ptf: in. e-viclence 
during the courJe of a trial, the receipts will not relate to other 
documents or files. 
b. Receipts should clearly show: 
1
1) Date on which payment was made 
2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basic 
3} Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts fo- services 
or expenses where these items are pertinent· 
( 4) 1farne of Agent 1:iaking payment 
(5) Signature of person receiving the money 
c. Receipts are no·l; to be wi"l;nessed by an.other Agent.· 
d. If necessary to make correctionc on the receipts,• such corrections 
must be initialecl by the informant and not by the Agent. 
e. When transmitting receipts and itemized. s·f;atements of expenses to the 
Bureau, they should be stapled directly.to the blue slip, leaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contac·~ with the J,cco fastener punch, The staples shou]c1 be 
place•1 in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on the 
re~eipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
bj easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. C&re mu~t 
be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clearly show 
payment of money and do not refer ·l;o any other document1.>,ry material 
contained in Bu.files. • 
Income tax returns 
a.. Informants who receive compensation for their services to the Bure:;,.u 
should be advised that such compensation must be repor·l;ed as income 
when filing an income tax return, 
b. Bureau income should be set forth( on the )federal income ·ta:>: 
return, form 1040, as income received from other sources for 
personal services rendered through a private enterprise or 
similar general term applicable to informant's position and station 
in life. 
c. If the informant is self-employed and fil_es a schedule C as a· self­
employed individual, it may be possible to include his Bureau income 
with hii: self-em.ployed income from other sources without revealin.s 
connection witll, the Bureau. - " "' 
d, Effective 1-1-65, in these instances in which the informant cannot 
report payments received from the Bureau for servines without jeop­
ardizing his security as an informant, such payments will be subject 
to a 20 per cent withholding tax, There are four categories of -
circumstances in which taxes will not be withheld; Taxes are not to 
be vdthheld from payments made (1) to other than security informants 
and sources, (2) for reimbur~ement of expenses, (3) under SAC 
authority, or (4) to informants who have been able to report Bureau 
income on their Federal tax returns without jeopardizing their secu~ity 
or without chall~ ::·:re from ·l;he Internal Revenue Service. Ea ch office 
has de tailed ins tr1J.ctions and exhibits concerning the procedure to 
be followed in the handling and control of money withheld. 
20 
3-15-65 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1351 
.. 
( 
1 
• 1 
• ! 
. i 
I t 
I i 
i 1 
I 
l 
I 
i 
-· l 
! 
i 
I 
I 
