4-00000 t 
.., 
Microfilm Material Not Processed for Release (Pending 
Discussion with the Board):. 
Oswald 201 File - this appears to be a duplicate of the hard 
copy 201 file reviewed in 1993. 12+ Reels/approximately 
30,600 pages 
CIA Staff Employees' Personnel Files - Approximately 10,800 
pages located on 7 different reels. Request that these file 
not be considered part of the JFK collection as a matter of 
privacy. Only a small portions of these files have any 
relevance to the JFK investigations and we believe that the 
documents related to their roles in the JFK story were 
released in the JFK hard copy collection. We have reviewed 
each of the OP files and prepared a classified summary for 
the Board. 
Non-Related Material - Most of these documents fall into 
three major categories: 
Individual 201 files These files cover the entire 
period of agency interest or contact with a person. For 
individuals who are not "key figures" in the JFK story, 
those sections of the file that are outside relevant time 
frames or can not be linked to Oswald, the assassination, 
the various investigations, or any of the conspiracy 
theories have been treated as non-related. 
Project/Operational Files: Many of these cover the 
complete life of a project. Sections of these file deals 
with operations which have no connection with the 
assassination or fall in only part of a relevant time frame. 
For example there are over 3000 pages on the Mexico City 
Photo operation covering the 1960's and 1970'~. The only 
related material is that falling in the time frame of 
Oswald's visit to Mexico City and the investigation 
following the assassination. 
Cuban Exile Groups/Operations: The anti-Castro 
activities of the Cuban exiles in the·us during 1960 - 1963 
are considered relevant to the assassination. However, some 
of the organizations and individuals members continued to 
run operations against Castro into the 1970's. The exile 
activities after the assassination are generally not 
considered related unless they involve plots to assassinate 
Castro, the continuation of pre-assassination projects or 
the Garrison Investigation. 
