.
.... ,-.;;,_,,· . 
. 
Volume XVI - continued 
page_2 
_Origin of Autonot10us Operations 
• .SECRET Betsy Palmer 
Integrated Covert Action Program for Cuba, approved by Higher Authority 
in June 1963, provided for "support of autonomous anti-Castro Cuban groups 
to supplement and assist in the execution" of other courses of action. 
Concept 'W'a.S f'irst voiced in Sept. 1962 in Walter Rostow's proposal for a 
"Track Two". approach to Cuban operations. Parallel to regular CIA­
controlled Cuban teams, CIA woiUd extend financial aid and some advice and 
guidance to independent and uncontrolled Cuban leaders such as Manuel Ray. 
Rules of Engagement incorporated into June 1963 program. 
1. "It is the keystone of autonomous operations that they will be 
executed exclusively by Cuban nationals motivated by the conviction that the 
overthrow of the Castro/Communist regime must be accomplished by Cubans, 
both inside and outside Cuba acting in consonance. . 
2. The effort will probably cost many Cuban lives. If this cost 
in lives becomes unacceptable to the U.S. conscience, autonomous operations 
can be effectively halted by the withdrawal of U.S. support; but once halted, 
they cannot be resu.r.i.ed. 
3. All autonomous operations will be mounted outside the territory 
of the United States. 
4. The United States Government must be prepared to deny publicly 
any participation in these acts no matter ho~ loud or even how accurate may 
be the reports of U~ S. complicity. 
5. The United States presence and direct participation in the 
operation would be kept to an absolute minimum. Before entering into an 
operational relationship with a group, the U.S. representative will make it 
clear that his Government has no intention of intervening militarily, except 
to counter intervention by the Soviets. An experienced CIA officer would be 
assigned to work with the group in a liaison capacity. He would provide 
general advice as requested as well as funds and necessary r.ia.terial support. 
He may be expected to influence but not control the conduct of operations. 
6. These operations would not be undertaken w~thin a fixed time 
schedule." 
4. Article f'ron New York Times, Wednesday, July 15, 19(54, bylined Tad Szulc 
"Ray Said To Leave For CUba Landing - Castro Foe, BaLlced in May., Reported 
on Way Again. " 
5. Cable to DIR from JNBAR.R., d td 15 Jul 1964. M/V True with Manolo Ray 
and crew returned Key West area --- had motor trouble. 
6. Cable to DIR from JJ,f;;IAVE, dtd 18 July 1964. Ray's latest misadventures 
trying get into CUba mid-July greeted with relative indifference majority 
Cuban exiles Miami area. 
7. Hireservice prinout - Miami, Flay, July 24, 1964. Three exile groups 
withdrew frora Ray's JU?--2 today protesting that Fay failed to t1a...~e good 
his promise to enter Cuoa to reactivate the anti-r.astro underground. 
Spokesman was Jesus Dieguez of the Revolutionary National Assenbl:r. 
SECRET 
