13-00000 
could not be _devised and introduced in this 
first ef,fort. Yet, despite the model's mater­
ial orientation, the conclusions of the study 
point to the need for fundamental changes in 
the values of society. {34, p. 191) 
Admission that the world model has a minor flaw of 
omitting "critical social factors" followed so 
blithely by conclusions about fundamental value 
cbanges surely conveys to the reader that the fac­
tors that have been dealt with are the more essen­
tial and more significant. 
Again recall the human attributes as you read: 
By the same token since the thinking human 
being is also an information processor, it 
should be possible to study his processes and 
their organization independently of the details 
of the biological mechanisms - the 'hardware' 
~-that implement them. {Simon and Newell, 
• ·-~nformation-Processing in Computers and Man", 
p. 256) 
Tbat the theories 
are mechanistic - that they postulate 
only the processes capable of being effected 
by mechanism - is guaranteed by simulating 
the behavior predicated by ordinary digital 
computers. {ibid. p. 258) 
To reemphasize the contribution of science fic­
tion, let us trace through one well-written and pop­
ular book, Stand on Zanzibar {Brunner). In the 21st 
century over-populated world, there is a very ad­
vanced computer Shalmaneser owned by General Tech­
nic, a company large enough to be contemplating the 
subsidization, modernization, and management of a 
small underdeveloped country Beninia. Beninia is 
unique since it alone has retained peacefulness and 
trust and humane behavior. Computer analysis is un­
dertaken of the feasibility of the G.T. project and 
for alternative plans of carrying it out. With re­
gard to the possibility of computer analysis of what 
makes Beninia attractive, one sensitive character in 
the book says" ... when they get love down to a 
bunch of factors you can analyze with a computer, 
there'll be nothing left of whatever makes it worth 
being human". Shalmaneser eventually rejects the 
data on Beninia because it is inconsistant with re­
ality. Mulligan, a cynical sociologist, gets the 
computer to process the data by adding the additional 
assumption that an unknown force is active in that 
population. Mulligan points out that the scientists 
who have been working toward consciousness for the 
super-computer have been successful because the re­
jection of the data was a display of its first human 
characteristic - "orneriness" or "bloody-minded­
ness". When faced with something different, it chose 
to reject it instead of broadening its view of the 
possible. Mulligan sets out to find what makes 
Beninia different and traces it to a genetic muta­
tion which produces a body odour that surpresses in 
others the territorial-aggression reaction. Mulli­
gan's hope is that a world-renowned biologist who is 
working on modification of human genetic maps can 
use this to better mankind. His hope is shattered 
when he learns that this biologist has been murdered 
for political reasons. The decision is that the ma­
chine will work on finding an exterpal synthetic 
spray. Mulligan is led away crying for lost human­
ity" ••• what in God's name is it worth to be hu­
man, if we have to be saved from ourselves by a ma­
chine?" The now conscious machine has the last word 
and the last sentence of the book "Christ, what an 
imagination I've got". The irony of the book is 
that Mulligan, who represents and speaks for those 
characteristics which are human, falls into another 
part of the prevalent mechanistic trap - aggression 
is in our genes; the solution to our problems will 
be via a specific scientific breakthrough. 
Superstates and Sypersystems 
A concern for the use of computers in politics 
and government is seen in numerous stories. Opin­
ion polling in a political campaign is involved in 
The 480 {Burdick), and the writing of campaign lit­
erature in The Novel Computer {Escarpit). The pre­
diction of elections is carried to an extreme in 
"Franchise" {Asimov) where only one vote is needed 
to determine the election, and Counterfeit World 
(Galouye) describes an entire synthetic•society {an 
"electromathematical model") made up for purposes of 
opinion surveying. Of greater concern, however, are 
the super-states dependent on or replaced by super­
computer systems. Many of these stories describe 
the process by which men gradually gave away self­
determination in exchange for material well-being, 
or in the belief that a larger something was needed 
to protect them from each other (Anderson, "Sam 
Hall"; Cole, The Funco File; Dick, Vulcan's Hammer; 
Fairman, I, the Machine; :-lason, Matrix; Pohl, Star­
child). Often, no one really ~nderstands any longer 
bow the system works (Cameron, Cybernia; Cole, The 
Funco File; Delany, The Fall of the Towers; Dick, 
Vulcan's Hammer; Fairman, I. the \lachine; Mason, 
Matrix). In most cases, the vast destructive power 
of the system is realized when, for some reason, it 
is no longer serving human ends. One computer over­
emphasizes the goal of protecting itself {Dick, Vul­
can's Hammer),onegets carried away by its goal of 
avoiding thermo-nuclear war {Cardin, The God Ma­
chine), two become lonely and hence mad {Fairman .. L, 
the Machine; Pohl, Starchild}, another becomes psy­
chotic because of what it learns from men's minds 
{Delany, The Fall of the Towers}, others are under 
the control of selfish people {Cameron, Cybernia; 
Sl~dek, The Reproductive Svstem). Most of these 
systems are destroyed by man's more flexible intel­
ligence. However, in one story {Miller, "Dumb 
Waiter"), the system goes on even after there are no 
more people, and in another (Dick, "Autofac"}, with­
out the knowledge of the people. 
Loss of Control 
Some ten years ago when discussing views of com­
puters in science fiction, I pointed out that few 
contemporary stories could be viewed simply as man's 
worries about his machines getting beyond his con­
trol. I noted that most of the stories focused on 
extensions of specific current uses and emphasized 
man's responsibilities as technology advanced {30, 
31). While there are some stories in which comput­
ers turn on their makers {Dnieprov, "Siema"), the 
stories just cited have two significantly differe-t 
characteristics. The stories do not begin with the 
construction of a machine motivated by curiosity or 
scientific naivetee, but instead, they begin with 
the populace agreeing to control by the machine. We 
read, for example, that in 1993 after a large world 
war, all nations agree to "subordinate themselves in 
a realistic manner ... to a common supranational 
authority ... " which is a machine so that it won't 
put "interest over reason, emotion over lo{Jic" 
(Dick, Vulcan's Hammer p. 19); or that .another mach­
ine is built to control the world because with stone 
axes men could be free as they could do only limited 
damage before they were stopped but with advanced 
technology men could do damage .so much more quickly 
they cannot be free to start {Pohl, Starchild). In 
A Tale of the Big Computer (Johannesson), a history 
of life until the "computer age," we learn that man 
