.r 
NW 
107P - Q. SECTION 107 • 
P • SIGHING OF LOYALTY OATHS, .AF1''IDAVITS, AND ST.ATEI1EHTS 
Q. 
1. Every effort shoul<l be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sig:i or fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting Agent fully 
advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign sucih a 
form. . 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4. The Burea~ will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant's activity; however, such situations 
must be kept to a minimum ~n view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
5. £a ch such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to be 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed action. 
60 In no instance should you permi.t an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
DISCO::ITINU.e:D INJ:,OffrfANTS 
1. When-the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card 
"cancelled." Destroy the symbol card. Uever destroy the name card. 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symbol number in the symbol 
number index. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued potential 
security informant or confidential source to whom a symbol number was 
once assig~ed later is reactivated, remove hi& name card from .the 
sy-u1bol number index, mark i·i; reactivated with appropriate date, note 
thereon type of inforuw.tion he ,1ill now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. _ 
3. When a potential security inform2.nt or confidential source is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4. 
s .. 
7. 
8 ... 
Advise the Bureau when a potential informant or info:cmant is discontinued 
And the reason therefor. 
1..dvise the Bu1·eau as to ,•;hetlier or not the informant is willing to testify 
in open court ·or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all cn.ses of security of Government employees type in which the informant 
has f11rnis hed information must be ascertained and the Bureau u.dvis ed in 
compliance _with section 69li', volume III, of this manual. 
Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the I}ureau and the field relating to the Depart­
ment I s interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available as a wi·tness arc .contained therein. In those casesiit which it 
is evident the Department has indicated a desire to consider the inform­
ant fu~thor when he becomes available, advise the Bureau.in each such 
substantive case, except :i.n those cases in which it is obvious the statute 
of li~itations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the Bureau. 
A statement shall also be mado to the effect that the measures to con­
trol informa1rts, :;et out in 8 belo;·;, h<"_ve been considered and recommend2--
tio ns shall be made when it appears tliat such are warra11ted. • 
When the services of an informant arc discontinued, maintain close con­
tact with him so that the infor□ant will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be ::i.gainst the n'ureau's 
best interests. When an informan-t is dis continued, d.etermine whether 
he has pl:.>.ns for ~vriting a hook, magazine or new:ipapcr article, or other­
wise publio:tzing his acL.ivi.ty. If so, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than rna.kJ.ng ·other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
1448 
24 
5-12-61 
) 
