13-00000 ! 
~'· )> 
·-•~ .-· .-... 
3 
to the assassination of President Kennedy; 
. 
* receive information from the public regarding the identification and public disclosure of, 
assassination records; and f 
* hold hearings, administer oaths, and subpoena witnesses and documents. 
Background and Need for the Law 
On November 22, 1963, President John F. Kennedy was assassinated while traveling in a 
motorcade in Dallas, Texas. His tragic death, and the subsequent murder of Lee Harvey Oswald, 
the President's alleged assassin, led to the creation of The Warren Commission, seven days after 
the assassination. 
Amid continuing public doubts that all of the facts surrounding the ass~sination had not-iorrie to 
light, the House of Representatives established the House Select Committee on Assassinations in 
1976 to reopen the investigation. 
In addition to these two major federal investigations devoted to the investigation of the 
assassination of President Kennedy, three other federal investigatory bodies have dealt with the 
assassination to some degree. President Ford created The Rockefeller Commission in 1975 to 
investigate Central Intelligence Agency activities within the United States. Part of the 
Commission's efforts related to the Kennedy assassination. Also·in 1975, Congress created the 
Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Resp~t to Intelligence 
Activities (the Church.Committee) and the House Select Committee on Intelligence (the Pike 
Committee). Some of the work of these committees was related to the assassination. 
Despite these official investigations and with private researchers continuing their efforts, the 
public was not satisfied that all of their questions about the assassination of President Kennedy 
had been answered. The res.ult-was the passage of The President John F. Kennedy Assassination 
Records Collection Act of 1992, which included the creation of the Assassination Records 
Review Board. ,. 
Contacting the Assassination Records Review Board 
The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 provides that the 
Review Board has the authority to "receive information from the public regarding the 
. identification and public disclosure of assassination records." 
If you have relevant information regarding records relating to the assassination of President John 
F. Kennedy, or would like to learn more about the Board, please contact us at: 
The Assassination Records Review ~~;ird 
600 E Street, N.W., Second Floor 
Washington, D.C. 20530 
Telephone: (202) 724:0088; Fax: (202) 724-0457 
