.3ECTcT - 15 -
Ober's Operatic~: (continued) 
had the personnel, and the FBI would have become aware of such acti­
vity on a massi\·e scale. flo•,iever, Papich did receive a continuing 
supply of in:on-,2.tion from Ober. Most of this information related 
to the relatio:i.shiµ between domestic 2.nd foreign groups. Inciden­
tally, infor;:i.a 0:ion pertinent to internal security may have been 
picked up and passed' on to the CIA. Papich is also aware that some 
of Ober' s recruits 1,ere gathering information in the United States 
as ~ell as o~erseas on occasions when the student's travels ended 
and he or she returned to the States. This information was also 
passed on to Papich. Papich acknowledged that on occasion the FBI 
Hould provide CIA 1-li th an introduction to a sympathetic student in 
a dissident group. 
2. Projec Office of Security 
Papich knows almost nothing of efforts to penetrate dissident groups 
by the Office of Security. He feels that if such a project had been 
extensive, the FBI would have become aware of it, as FBI had a large 
Washington Field Office and was very interested in the dissident 
groups and constantly monitoring them. Papich could not recall an 
incident where a CIA asset working for Women's Strike for Peace was 
turned over to the FBI. He did recall occasions when Ober's group 
turned over assets to the FBI when the asset returned from overseas 
and no longer wished to work abroad. Papi ch believes that only a 
small arnount of. information on dissidents was ever sent to the FBI 
from the Office of Security. 
Papich- states that during this entire period of -the dissidents, the atmos­
phere was such that something had to be done by someone to learn what the 
more militant of these dissident groups were planning. Riots, bombings, 
and destruction of property were rampant. Citizens and newspapers were 
screaming for action to bring this unrest to an .md. It was a difficult 
time for all Federal agencies. 
Criminal Cases 
Papich is not aware of any instances when the CIA has undertaken law en­
forcement tasks in the United States. This does not mean that there was 
not some cooperation between the FBI and CIA in criminal cases. For 
instance, Angleton's over.seas agents would frequently obtain infoTI11ation 
connecting Americans with criminal activities in the U.S. Angleton would 
contact the FBI and together Papich and Angleton would develop the CIA' s 
source of information to assist the FBI. A good example of this led to 
the ,=n-rest and co;-iviction of a Ne~-,, York City official during the Lindsay 
Administration. 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32203861 Page 5 
