13-00000 
r ! 
I 
I I 
I 
I. 
.. SECRET 
EYES ONLY 
- 2 -
Mr. Bundy and Mr. McCone expressed some doubts as to whether we 
are in a position to decide major problems of this type until we 
have a clearer picture of what the over-all policy toward Cuba is 
likely to be for the next six months to a year and a half. Mr. Bundy 
pointed out that the noise level which would be ·involved in many of 
these proposals would be considerably more than it has been to date, 
and he felt that we must decide whether we are willing to accept this. 
He added that he did not feel that such a development would necessarily 
be bad, but it would certainly be different from the low-level 
activities prevailing now. He was not sure whether, or to what extent, 
it would be possible to embark on the activities proposed in the 
Coordinator's papers, without a drastic change in U.S. policy. In this 
connection, Mr. Johnson said that he particularly likes the proposals 
for supporting internal resistance operations, since these will not 
generate a high noise level. 
Mr. FitzGerald pointed out that the paper of April 17th, on a 
"Maximum Covert Action Program" consists basically of sabotage and 
harassment, plus support to Cuban exile groups and individuals who 
may be responsive to our advice but certainly not to our command. 
He mentioned some· of the difficulties that would flow from supporting 
one group and not others. Mr. McCone said that if such groups become 
active, it will be obvious that they have U.S. supp.ort because it is 
well known that they do not have adequate assets now. He and Mr. 
Bundy agreed that, despite the fact that some Central American govern­
ments might be used as cutouts, the U.S. would be blamed for their 
activiti~s and this must be clearly recognized before embarking on 
such a course. They felt additionally that we must be sure that such 
a program would contribute to over-all policy objectiv,s. 
Mr .. McCone and Mr. FitzGerald referred to the CIA estimate that 
time iscrunning in favor of Castro, and Mr. FitzGerald )aid that 
some of these activities are designed to slow down or,,i'os_. sible stop 
the trend of events in his favor. • , 
• ·'.t,i; ... ~. 
It was noted that the program for shipping sabot:1· e, which has 
already been approved, is in process of possible imp_l •• ntation. It 
was agreed that this process should not be interrupte ~ 
2. :,@eco~~1s~;;~c~- ~:-k~~. ,- . -9 1 - - -----. -. ___ • !-r .. 
~- '\ 
A COMOR paper, suggesting that certain targets in Southern Laos 
' be included in the proposed missions for Northern Laos, -was distributed 
and no objection was expressed to it. Mr. Bundy noted that h.e had not 
yet had an opportunity to clear the original proposal ~.th higher 
authority] • .i 
SECRET 
EYES ONLY 
/" 
