[ 
( 
( 
NW 38321 
V 
PART II 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND,uBLIC CONTACTS 
[6H] 
c. Purchase of individual publications at Bureau request 
When the Bureau requests a field office to purchase and forward one 
or more copies of publications of security interest, it is desired, 
unless otherwise specifically stated, that nonevidentiary cdpies be 
forwarded, With respect to these specific Bureau requests for the 
pur-chase of individual copies of publications, the requested non­
evidentiary copies should be forwarded to the Bureau by routing slip 
via ordinary mail. . 
d, Obtaining and retaining evidentiary copies of publications in tlie 
field 
When the submitting office determines, or is advised by the Bureau, 
that a certain issue of a publication {which has already been for-, 
warded to the Bureau} is deemed to be of sufficient importance to 
warrant the obtaining of an evidentiary copy of that issue, a copy 
thereof should be obtained through live informants or by having an 
Agent purchase a copy at a public outlet for that publication, if 
confidentially feasible, The evidentiary copy, bearing complete 
identifying data, should be retained as evidence in the field office; 
and the Bureau should be so advised by letter, setting forth 
complete identifying da·ta concerning the evidentiary copy, together 
with the caption and file number of the file in which the e.videntiary 
copy is retained, 
e. Transmittal of evidentiary copies of publications to the Bureau 
Instances in which the field will transmit evidentiary copies of publica­
tions to the Bureau will be limited almost exclusively to the submission 
of copies of foreign language publications for translation of certain 
material for use as evidence, In these instances, it is required that: 
(1) Each copy submitted bear complete identifying data 
(2) The material be forwarded in sealed envelopes labeled "Evidence" 
(3) The material be forwarded via registered mail 
(-4) The cover letter of transmittal be· marked for the attention of. 
the.FBI Laboratory; state clearly that it is contemplated that the 
publications (and translations thereof) will be used as evidence; 
identify clearly the enclosed publications as to title, place of 
publication, and date of issue; show the method of transmittal 
of the evidence to the Bureau; and indicate the desired disposition 
of the evidence, 
f. Calling attention of Bureau to publications of security interest 
When a field office obtains an evidentiary copy of a publication whibh 
it desires to call to the Bureau's attention, a letter should be 
addressed to the Bureau to that end. Title, author, publisher, and the 
general nature should be very briefly set forth, together with the identi-
·fying data proper to the evidentiary copy. The letter should be • 
informative, not requi~ing an answer,. A nonevidentiary duplicate copy 
of that publication should be enclosed with the letter, if readily 
available. If a nonevidentLary copy is not readily available, that 
fact should be stated in the letter. If the Bureau desires to 
obtain a nonevidentiary duplicate copy of the publication for review, 
efforts will be made to obtain it through the appropriate field office. 
If not obtained, the office possessing the evidentiary copy will be 
requested to forward to the Bureau a Photostat thereof. 
256 
Sb 
12-27-74 
