Pi\RT Tl·lO: Jit:. BRADZ::i:7 
One of the most incredible bodies of recent information 
concerning the alleged conspiracy to assassinate President 
Kennedy is largely based on the investigative research 
done by Pater Noyes, a former CBS Producer and top inves-
tigative reporter. • 
Last year, Noyes published a. book, Legacv of Doubt, which 
summed up many of his findings, and which generally outlines 
what Noyes believes was heavy Mafia involvement in the 
assassination. The Noyes book is almost entirely factual 
and is largely based on substantiated information such as 
police records provided by the FBI, the Los Angeles Police 
Department, the California Attorney General's Office, and 
Texas police officials. 
Though the Noyes book (like most recent assassination books) 
did not sell well or receive much press attention, it has 
been regarded as a valuable contribution by most 6f author 
Noyes' fellow Warren Commission critics. 
It can definitely be said that almost all of Noyes' findings, 
particularly with respect to his main character Jim Braden, 
have been factually substantiated and are solidly established 
by official police records. 
Basically the Noyes book outlines the background of a 
mysterious man who was picked up by the police at the scene 
of President Kennedy's assassination just minutes after the 
shooting. The man was apprehended by a Dallas policeman who 
thought he was behaving suspiciously. The man, who identified 
himself under the false name of Jim Braden, was released 
shortly thereafter following brief questioning by the Dallas 
Sheriff's Office. 
Author ~eyes uncovered the story of Jim Braden and his 
true identity during five years of investigative research. 
And it is Jim Braden's true identity and his iropic misfortune 
of beirig picked up at the scene of the a~sassination f9r 
"looking suspicious" thcc1t the ~'larren Commission critics noH 
believe ranks with James McCord's mistake of leaving masking 
tape on the doors during the Watergate break-in as the ultimate 
fat?l slip-ups in the two conspiracies. 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 376 
