13-00000 
•' l1 
C O N F I D E N T I A L 
SUBJECT: (AIUO) Pbssible Illegal Destruction of R~cords 
7. (AIUO) I then noticed that the destruction 
authorization form 141b (exhibit C) listed the RCS as 10-84 
and the Item Number as 29B. Referring to the newer:version 
of the RCS I found that this schedule and item number also 
allow for the lawful destruction of these temporary records. 
Please see the highlighted text of exhibit F. 
8. (AIUO) At this juncture, I reviewed the material 
and noticed a note on exhibit D that stated, "IG 37/77 
Lonhquist (Kennedy Assassination) destroyed on 5/1/95 by 
S.K.". 
9. (AIUO) Please see the attached JFK Assassination 
Act (exhibit G), para (a) (1) thru (6). In short, this law 
was enacted in 1992 and these. records were destroyed in 
1995. The fact the records were scheduled as temporary and 
then destroyed according to Agency regulations does not 
override Public Law·102~526, the JFK Assassination Act. 
10. (AIUO) I found three entries in Textware on 
Lonnquist. Two pertain to nothing of interest in this case; 
however the third entry stat.es, "allegations·regarding the 
Lee Harvey Oswald file" (see the highlighted text of exhibit 
H). 
11. (A:tUO) In May 1997, I told the JFK Assassination 
Review Board (ARB), in an informal hearing, that OIG had no 
knowledge or record of any JFK records under OIG's perview 
being destroyed. This was during discussions at the table, 
and not one of the listed questions for the OIG/IMO to 
answer. 
12. (AIUO) My plan is to contact the DCI/IMO, enlist 
his assistance in notifying the National Archives and 
Records Administration (NARA) and the ARB that records 
pertaining to the JFK Assassination were inadvertently 
destroyed and explain in detail the events surrounding the 
discovery and what steps have been taken to prevent this 
from happening again. 
13. (AIUO) I personally doubt that there was·anything 
of value to the ARB in the Lonnquist case file, but because 
LHO is referenced it is considered a JFK ARB file, and by 
law I have to report its destruction to NARA and th~ ARB. 
C O N F I D E N T I A L 
