13-00000 
.•. 
) 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS: 
Three independent clandestine sources have reported the 
unloading of military equipment from a Soviet cargo vessel, 
probably the METALLURG BAIKOV, on 19 or 20 November. This 
vessel was suspected of carrying a military cargo long before 
its arrival in Cuba. (See Daily Summary of 12 November.) It 
carried what was probably the eighth full military cargo to 
arrive in Cuba since the 1962 missile crisis. One source, a 
retired civil engineer whose reporting has been factual and 
in most instances based on personal observation, reported that 
the METALLURG BAIKOV unloaded "large quantities of arms and 
military equipment" in.·Havana on 20 November and left the next 
day. Another source reported that Havana longshoremen had 
stated that a Soviet ship, which they did not identify, had 
unloaded arms at Regla Wharf, Havana, on 20 November. A third 
source, an educated Cuban of Western Buropean extraction who 
is a resident of Havana, reported that tanks were among the 
equipment unloaded from a Soviet vessel that arrived-in Havana 
on 19 November. The.three sources are probably referring to 
the same shipment. If the report on the delivery of tanks is 
true, this would be the second consecutive reported shipment 
of ar.mored vehicles to Cuba. The ORENBURG reportedly delivered 
some 45 tanks on 23 or 24 October. (See Daily Summaries of 28 
an.d 29 October.) It has previously been reported that another 
probable military shipment, the ninth, is now en route aboard 
the SLUTSK. (See Dail~ Summary of 3 December.) (CIA TDCS-DB-
3/658,289,6 December, ECRET No FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DIS­
SEM) 
The Soviet "coastal defense rockets" now belong to the 
Cuban Army artillery forces, according to a recent speech by 
Raul Castro. Cubans probably have .been training in cruise 
missile operations since last spring, and the rotation and 
withdrawal of some Soviet naval personnel in September suggested 
that the cruise missile system was turned over to the Cubans 
at that time~'-1 (A Soviet c~mmuri~catio-nlil net) which probably serves 
the cruise miss'rle system remains active, however, indicating 
that some degree of Soviet involvemeQ~co~tinues. (CIA FBIS, 
14 November, UNCLASSIFIED and NSA 2/-,it_URUo/R16-63, 28 August, 
1963, SECRET KIMBO) • qq-
-1-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
