13-00000 
~ 
September 12, 1995 
WORKING PAPER 
Notes from meeting w/ ARRB staff Sept. 11, 1995 
Issue: Pre'sentation to Board at Sept. 20/21 meeting 
It was agreed that "STATIONS" would be the,focus of.the 
presentation -- 10:00 am, 20 Sept., one hour. 
Marwell recommended providing evidence~f bilateral 
agreements as well as identifying current: Jiarrn. Said that 
the Board was leaning strongly toward releasing stations, 
particularly those in Europe. 
Mary pointed out that there were still issues on the Mexico 
City station window. There are documents from the sos, 
references in summaries to the founding of the station and, 
most important, the visit by the HSCA to Mexico City. 
Ellie said there was the possibility of opening windows of 
stations when Oswald was present, however, this was a key 
issue for the Agency and a senior Directora'te/Agency 
decision. She indicated that the DO would oppose expanding 
the Mexico City window(i.nto the ?O"ij) 
As for the older documents, we pointed out that we had 
already agreed to the release of those documents. 
Marwell suggest that the 20 Sept. presen):?,tion would be a 
good opportunity to address the Private. Li:rie and other Tel 
Taps issue rather than requesting a sep~ra~e meeting. 
\ ' .. '·. 
After the meeting Marwell elaborated on th~ presentation. 
He said to try to avoid going over old grbund (US-Mexico 
relationship); when possible provide specific/hard evidence 
(bilateral agreements carry weight); war-stories do not go 
over well. He emphasized the importance of using the 
language of the law especially when citing harm. He 
specifically mentioned Sec. 6. (B){copy attached} which sets 
a standard of "interfere with the conduct of intelligence 
activities". 
[Note: In a previous meeting with Gunn, he stressed similar 
themes including avoiding what he called "chicken little" 
arguments. He also raised the question on sensitivity of 
acknowledging we had a station in (Moscow}during the~ 
"It would have been logical to have one during the Cold 
War." ] 
-£E'1RET 
