14-00000 
~ ;-·· -- ~ 
:}, : L_,•J 
,-, • .,~ ·~7 
• ' :1 ~-.. ~- ~. ,: 
( 
o/~ 
5'he meeting then continued with the President, McGeorge 
Bundy and McCone. I discussed the foreign aid figures as included 
in the 6 December memorandum and the special report on Soviet 
Foreign Economics Programs of 25 October, and stated that I 
would prepare for the President some special graphics which would 
show Soviet foreign, economic and military aid, both extensions and 
draw-downs, to non-Communist countries and Cuba. 
NOTE: Mr. Rostow raised the question earlier 
as to the validity of comparing our aid figures with 
USSR' s aid figures because the latter did not include 
aid to satellites. His position is that since we include 
aid to NATO countries, particularly Turkey, Greece, 
South Korea, etc., we should examine USSR aid to their 
satellites in addition to Cuba. This should be examined. 
I do not know whether the figures are available J 
The President reviewed the Checklist and I made the following 
comments: 
CJ~ 
1. [j. expect the USSR to expand the test ban agreement to cover 
underground tests and it was quite possible they would soon make claims 
for vast improvements in seismology. I mentioned the recent informa­
tion on the LASER bearr9 
2. {i pointed out the se!fusness of the Cambodian situation 
stating the fact that the Khmer Serei clandestine radio had been located 
in Southeast Thailand and that my information was that the Thais were 
not inclined to put it out of business because the Cambodians were 
broadcasting unfavorably against them":;] 
9~ 
3. {i noted the additional indicators of possible conflict over 
Malaysia:]" 
I then explained to the President the source of our information 
that the Soviet Intelligence Service, on orders from Moscow, was 
attempting to stimulate communications from India to him, Chief Justice 
Warren and the Attorney General, urging a full probe into the 
assassination of the President. I stated that this report comes from a 
very reliable penetration and we evaluate it quite highly. 
We then discussed the assignment of Peer de Silva to Saigon. 
I stated that the staff had made such recommendation to me, but that 
I felt it was only~ good move if he was to remove Ambassador Lodge. 
He felt that to do this would have political repercussions and would be 
