13-00000 
Nixon and the Mafia - Conclusion 
Jeff Gerth 
Contributing Editor 
SunOance Magazine 
1913 Fillmore St. 
San Francisco, Calif. 94115 
, ., "Organized crime will put a man in the White House someday, and he won't 
even know it until they hand him the bill." 
Part 1 of "Nixon and the Mafia" was published in 
the Septemberissueof "ComputersandAutomation"; 
Part 2, in the October issue. Part 3 begins here 
with further information about the relation of 
President-to-be Richard M. Nixon with shady trans­
actions in the Bahamas. 
Shakeup in the Bahamas 
By the middle Sixties there was a storm brewing. 
Internal friction had forced out a few people like 
Lou Chesler, while a wave of public investigations 
were blaring the role of underworld figures like 
Meyer Lansky. The 1967 Royal Commission of Inquiry 
also dredged up another familiar name - Richard 
Nixon. 
Testimony before the Royal Commission by Max 
·Courteney, a Lansky lieutenant, detailed a long 
bookmaking career and brought out the names of a_ 
large clientele, including the then ex-Vice Presi­
dent Richard Nixon. 
Mary Carter Paint 
The Royal Commission also bared a deal which im­
plicated Richard Nixon far more deeply than passing 
mention by an underground bookie. 
In 1967 Lyndon Pindling became the first black 
premier ever to serve the almost one hundred percent 
black citizenry of the island. Pindling was hardly 
a revolutionary, however, for among the people in­
stnamental in putting him in office was a gambler 
close to Lansky named Mike Mclaney. The Royal Com­
mission branded Mclaney a "thoroughly dangerous per­
son" and accused him of maneuvering Pindling into at 
least one deal involving a questionable gambling 
concession. 
Part of the post-election controversy was a com­
pany based in Tampa which bore the innocuous name of 
"lllary Carter Paint Company". 
In 1965 Lansky's front-man (and former Key Bis­
cayne landowner) Wallace Groves, filed a joint ap­
plication with the Mary Carter Company to open a 
Reprinted with permission from SunOance Magazine, November-December, 
1972, Volume 1, Number 3, published by and copyright by Running Dog, 
Inc., 1913 Fillmore St., San Francisco, Calif. 94115 
- Ralph Salerno 
casino on Paradise Island in the Bahamas. The ubiq­
uitous Sir Stafford Sands handled the legalities. 
Knowledgeable observers looked for the mystery man, 
and a Justice Department memo, dated January 18, 
1966, predicted that "the atmosphere seems ripe for 
a Lansky skim". 
After Pindling's election, Groves was forced out 
and the Mary Carter Paint Company had itself two new 
casinos. At the 1967 opening of one of them - the 
Nassau Bay Club - the honored guest was Richard 
Nixon. 
The following year - 1968 - the othell Mary Car­
ter Club, the Paradise Island Casino, opened for 
business. The owners felt close enough to Nixon to 
offer him use of their facilfties during the 1968 
Republican Convention. Nixon felt more comfortable 
at Key Biscayne, but some of his staff took up the 
offer. • 
Mary Carter Becomes Resorts International 
In 1969 Mary Carter - now called Resorts Inter­
national - reluctantly "released" one Dino Cellini, 
claiming that while he "had a relatively unsavory 
background, he had no criminal record, no criminal 
associates". Cellini hopped across the water to 
Miami, where, according to Dade County Sheriff In­
telligence Reports, he continued to work in conjunc­
tion with Paradise Island Casino. The reports al­
lege that Cellini was an almost daily visitor to Re­
sorts International's Miami office, where he checked 
credits and worked with a company booking junkets to 
the Paradise Island Casino. 
There are those who maintain that Cellini's con­
nections with Resorts International symbolize the 
influence of Lansky. In a 1971 editorial, the b!l. 
Vegas Sun concluded an eleven part series on organ­
ized crime - somP. of which centered on Resorts In­
ternational - by charging that "however cloaked and 
cleverly concealed by the guardians, gambling in the 
Bahamas is controlled by Meyer Lan sky and it has 
been established in police intellige~ce reports that 
the fee is fifteen percent of the gross income". The 
now defunct Toronto- Telegram reported in 1970 that 
"observers believe that the resourceful Lansky is 
still managing to get his cut from the Bahamas". 
Resorts International, through its ninety-one 
percent owned subsidiary, Intertel, has denied all 
allegations of involvement with organized crime. It 
