13-00000 
.'(( . l, 
"The Changing Supreme Court,• Public Lecture, Smithsonian 
Institution, Washington, D. c., october.1992. 
"Public Libel Law and Modern American Morality," Humanities 
Lecture series, Kansas State University, Manhattan, Karisas, 
September 1992. • • 
"Sober Second Thoughts: Doing the History of the Federal 
courts," Eleventh Federal Circuit Historical Society, Bilt~n 
Head, south carolina·, May 2, 1992. (included) ' . ·"· 
"The Bill of Rights and Original Intent," Keynote Addr e,..s s, 
University Symposium on the Bill of . Rights, East Carolina 
University, Greenville, North carolina, November ~991. 
"What We Know About the Bill of Rights at Tw9_:Hundre~Yea_rs," 
Keynote Address, Central Michigan University>- Noyember 1~91. 
"The Problem of Incorporation and. the Second Amendment," 
University of Arizona Law School, TUcson, Arizona, November 
1991. 
"Is There a Core Body of Knowledge about the constitution and 
the Bill of Rights?" l{earing Session Address, • The Leon 
Jaworski Symposium about Teaching 'the constitution and the 
Bill of Rights in the 21st Century, Smithsonian Institution, 
Washington, D. c., August 1991. 
"First Things First: The 'Central Meaning' of the Bill of 
Rights," Session Keynote . Address i Annual Meeting of the 
Association for Education in Journalism and Mass 
Communication, Boston, Massachusetts, August 19·91. 
"The. Bill of Rights in Comparative Internati~nal Perspective," 
Session Keynote Address, National .conference of State 
Legislatures Annual Meeting, Orlando, Florida, August 1991. 
"The World We Have Lost: The Bill of Rights Today," Keynote 
Address, Georgia Bicentennial Commission symposium on the Bill 
of Rights, Atlanta, Georgia, July 1991. 
"Teaching the Constitution and the Bill of Rights: Wllat to Do 
and What Not to Do," symposium on Teaching about Law in 
Community Colleges, Miami-Dade Community College,· •Miami, 
Florida, May 1991. • 
"The Law of Libel and the Fir~t Amendment Revisited," 
Symposium on the Bill of Rights, University of Minnesota Law 
School, May 1991. 
13 
