EYES ONLY 
TOP SECRET /SENSITIVE Attachments -2-
C-3--Some covert operations using the mail may have been designed 
to represent that the item was originally mailed in a denied area, 
' In other words, you want the recipient to believe that his letter came 
from the Chinese Communists so you make it appear as if it had 
been mailed from China. Note that the last item in this group (17 and 
10 January 1972) refers to "letter-insert mechanisms." I can find 
no elaboration of what this means, but it might represent intercept 
of the mail, surreptitious opening of a letter and the insert of some 
additional mate rial. 
C-4- -National Intelligence Estimates and other reports of intelligence 
may refer to information, some part of which was gleaned from mail 
intercepts. On the basis of protecting sources and methods these 
would not normally be identified in a document. However if the 
question were asked at a meeting, the source might be orally identified 
as a mail intercept (or SIGINT or whatever). 
C-5--This category represents probable entry into the international 
mail system to support a covert operation. The first item shows DOD 
sending letters ostensibly from groups in North Vietnam to other 
countries. The second shows CIA fabricating and mailing 700 letters 
"osten,sibly from Peking." The third shows CIA fabricating Demo­
cratic Republic of Vietnam greeting cards and mailing them. 
In each of the C-5 eases, operational information was probably gleaned 
from a mail intercept ·operation which would enable one to fabricate 
the paper, envelopes, writing and addressing styles, even counterfeit 
postage stamps and cachets, all with the aim of giving the appearance 
that the letter originated from a denied area. The material might then 
be inserted into the international mail system (e.g .• you know that 
mail from Communist <::hina transits Panama for onward distribution 
to Latin America; through liaison or independent contacts you insert 
your bundles in the sack from Peking and then it is given routine onward 
distribution through the regular mail system), 
C-6--Here are two cases where the Committee was informed that mail 
intercepts were the source of information used in support of covert 
operations. 
With regard to MONGOOSE files--which Mrs. Davis said Justice also wanted us 
to check--I find only the references at TAB D which suggest the possibility th~t 
mail intercept operations were a part of the response to intense pressures for 
more "hard" information on what was going on in Cuba. 
TOP SECRET /SENSITIVE Attachment~"T,"'~T -... ..... ~~--= 
EYES ONLY 
Hlf 50955 Docl<I: 32105870 Page 3 
