13-00000 
·computer Art: The Search ~eyond Manipulation 
Grace C. Hertlein 
California State University-Chico 
O,ico, Calif. 95926 '., 
•Computer arts are still in the highly experimental stage of emergence." 
In present computer art, the naive onlooker could 
readily misconstrue that mathematical processing of 
data and manipulation of design represent the total 
modus operandi of this new form, rather than just 
the initial phases of exploration. A review of the 
varied computer arts reveals diverse input of pat­
terns and subsequent manipulation or transformation, 
creating a series of new, perceptual audio or visual 
images. There appears a similarity of approaches 
and some variation of the techniques utilized by 
practitioners of the cybernetic arts: graphics, 
sculpture, film, dance, music, textile design, weav­
ing, poetry, and architecture. 
• There is a tendency to forget that the computer 
arts are still in the highly experimental stages of 
emergence, and although some attractive and very 
pleasing works have been accomplished, this new me­
dium has generally not progressed much beyond its 
mathematical and scientific origins. At times, in 
viewing or hearing the output of the computer arts, 
one would relegate the resultant art form to the 
category of interesting sound or visual patterns, 
experimental/initial exercises, or mathematical and 
scientific visualization, rather than as works of 
art per se. (This latter statement is equally true 
of contemporary manual experimental art.) There is, 
at the present time, a tendency for the computer 
arts to relate to an elite coterie, made up of 
scientists and intellectuals, rather than the public 
at large. However, as this new art medium is given 
greater space in the mass media, this audience 
should enlarge greatly, as exposure acquaints the 
general audience with the potential of this new art 
form. 
This article 11 reprinted by permission from the Proceedin{II of the 
ln-,ftational lntemational Exhibit of Computer Arts, T-5. Zagreb, 
Yugoslavia, June-July 1973. Grace C. Hertlein is Assistant Professor 
In the Computer Science Department at California State University­
Chico, Chico, Calif, 95926. Her computer art has been published for 
many years in Computers and Automation and currently some of 
her computer art is being exhibited at an art exhibition in Bordeaux, 
Fnnc:e. 
Pattern Manipulation 
Manipulation of design by 'the computer may be de­
liberate, (or at times highly experimental) as 
change or transformation of the original pattern is 
achieved via a host of techniques developed within 
the past twelve years. However, in attempting to· 
see precedent in manipulation of design, one ob­
serves ample evidence of a growing interest by ar­
tists and critics in combining (manually) mathemat­
ics and art. Since the turn of the century, such 
techniques and philosophy have been practiced and 
even more verbally expressed by electronic and con­
crete musicians. Further, the concept of pattern 
manipulation is as old as man's art, and one finds 
ample evidence.of this concept throughout art his­
tory. A few such examples are: Offset X/Y patterns 
in Persian sculptural reliefs; repetitions of design 
in serial imagery from early Greek vases; reversals 
of pattern in the compositions of Bach; mirror im­
ages and mathematical progressions of design in the 
Foundation Course exercises of the Bauhaus School; 
juxtaposition and superposition of musical patterns 
throughout musical history; and randomization of 
musical variations via throwing of dice, as prac­
ticed by Mozart. The world was quite ready philo­
sophically and mathematically for further explora­
tions in such transformation of pattern, yet it was 
not until the speed of the computer afforded this 
electronic manipulation, that it became feasible to 
such a degree. (Alteration, change, and transforma­
tion of pattern is revealed in other technological 
systems that may or may not use the computer as an aid in 
creation: synthesized video, sound, and the film.) In 
other words, science and technology now afford fur­
ther exploration of ideas and techniques that have 
been practiced by experimental artists for years. 
The philosophy and practice of twenJieth century 
music shows a very great similarity between the ma­
nipulative techniques used by musicians since the 
early 1900's and the present-day computer procedures. 
Examination of the philosophy of the Bauhaus and 
study of the works emanating from this revolutionary 
school, also re~eals great similarities in th- ap­
proaches to creation, and in the final works of art 
of this school and present-day computer arts. 
• 
• 
