[107F 
[ 
[ 
t 
t 
SECTION -• SECURITY HiFORHAlf'.1.1 S [.A.J.'fD C OTu.ENTIAL S OUH.CES] 
h. Any arrangeme:n;l;s f_or· pa.y:i.ng informa.nt or personally contact-ing him . 
must be spectfic and no doubt should be left in the minds of either 
the Agent or informant as to the methods of paymen·t,. amount, place, 
and time. 
i. Informants should be instructed to use only public ·l;eJ.:ephones in 
com.t111.:ni eating with contacting .Agent and consideration should be -given· 
to furnishing informants the unlisted office ·l;elephone number for 
emergency communication. [This rule is not practical "in all espionage 
and foreign nati ona.li ty rnatter·s but should be followed where applicable.) 
j, Positive _information received from informant should be the subject • 
of a 'fTri tten statement by informan·h or a memorandum ,prepared by 
contacting Agent to be placed in the informant's subfile and 
appropriately channelized. 
k. Record dates of all contacts, whether negati·ve or positive, in inf'orm­
a.ni; 1 s administrative file. Memorandum or form FD-209 may be used. If 
informant conta.c·ted frequently, one memorandum or form may be used for 
several contacts. 
1. The dates of nega•!;ive contacts and file numbers of the oases involved 
must appear in informant's administrative file. Where a file has more 
than one subject, the name of the subject under inquiry should also 
be noted. Do not set forth title of the case involved on the form. 
m. If positi-v-e informa·l;ion received from informant, show only dat·es of 
contacts in informant's administrative file. Place positive informa­
tion· in informant I s subfile and appropriately cha.nneli.ze same. 
n. Alternate Agent should be designated for contacts with informant and 
former should be thoroughly acquainted with informant so that contacts 
may be handled by alternate .A.gent in absence of Agent to whom inform­
ant is assigned. 
5. [Checking reliability] 
a. Reliability of informants must be co-nstantly checked. 
b. Consideration should be given to use of any investigative technique 
deemed necessary to be certain they are completely reliable and are 
furnishing accurate, truthful information. 
c. Checks on reliability m:ust be constantly reviewed during time . 
inform.ant is active. 
6. Fingerprints 
a • .After informant has been developed and unless some reason to the 
contrary exists 3 obtain and forward his fingerprints to Identifica­
tion Division if they are not on file there. 
b. If informant refuses, do not force the issue. 
c. Informant 1 s fingerprints, when qbtained, should be forwarded as 
enclosure to FD-165 using appl~cant-type fi~gerprint card, form_ 
FD-25$. This·card should be .properly executed showing su1;)ject 1 s 
'i6mplete description~ tncludi~g date and place of birth . .Appro­
priate field office should be shown as contributor, field case file 
number in number space, and "inquiry" in space for "company and 
address" on face of card. 
d. A flash notice is to be placed by the field in the files of the 
Identification Division by submission of form FD-165, using informant 1 s 
true name for eaoh informant who has fingerprints on file. 
e. When info~mant is discontinued, retain flash notice for one year 
followin~- discontinuance. Insure that notice is canceled at that 
time by ;ubmis sion of form -FD-165 or ad·<rise Bureau a~1 to why notice 
should be continued~ If fingerprints obtained solcli for this 
purpose, remove fingerprints from_criminal file, 
7. [Control - statement of cooperation] 
a. Close control must be exercised over activities of informants and 
double agents in order to obtain maximum results in security cases 
and to prevent any possible embarrassment to Bureau. 
a 
2-12-60 
~NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 1564 
( 
