- 2 -
Mr. Debelius sta.tcd that he had carefully revies;\·ed his own situation as a 
forrrer employee of the Off ice of Securi tv within t..'-le CIA and that he had 
concluded that there was no orosI_Y2ct that he would be called as a ,vi tness 
either bv the Comnission or by any Congressior-ial or other co;muttee. Hence, 
he did not feel that there wDULl. be any cxmf lict in his representation of 
Mr. Osborn under the car10ns of et..'tlcs applicable tD the legal profession. 
Background of Mr. Ostom 
HO\vard Osborn graduated from the Vi...rginia Polvtechnic Institute in 1940 and 
shortlv thereafter entered the military service. After World War II he was 
briefly ·with FirestDne Tire and Rubber Co,.11_Ja.nv, and then joif!C!d -::he Central 
Intelligeri.ce Ago--ncy in late 194 7. He serv-ed in various assignments within 
the United States and Eurooe prior to Septe.rr.!:::er 1963, including assignrren~ 
as Assistant to the Inspector Go_neral and p::>sitions within the Directorate 
of Plans. In Seotember 1963 he was narred Deputy Director of Securi tv. At 
that tirre the Director of Securitv was Rob Bannerman. On July 1, 1964, he 
was narred Director of Security, and he continued in that position until earlv 
March 1974 when he applied for disability retirerrent and went on sick leave. 
He was retired on disability on Decerrber 31, 1974, having not returned to 
WJrk since going on sic1< leave on March 8, 1974. He states that he had no 
involverrent whatever with Ag:mcv activities after M3.rch 8, 1974. 
Activities of t:J-1e Office of Security 
The Office of Security provides guards and security person..'121 to protect the 
phvsical facilities of the Ag""'--ncy. It has res:xinsibility for overall security 
rreasure~ for all CIA installations, bot11 in the United States and .in foreign 
countries. 
Counter-- Audio Sweeps 
At the request of other deparbrents and agencies of the United States G::>vern.I1l2.nt 
it conducts "counter-audio sweeps" of their off ices to Protect against teleph0ne 
taps, hidden microphones, and other i.rtercepts of audible rorrmunications. 
In the case of Congressional o:::mmittees and suba:mmittees, it conducts such 
S\~'2eos of hearings rooms on the occasion of classified presentations bv CIA 
personnel. Mr. Osl::om further stated that there may have teen other occasions 
when such s-.-ieeps were made of Congressional c:orrrnittee rooms, at the rorrmittee 
request, where classified presentations were to be made. Mr. Osborn does not, 
however, specifically recall such other occasions. 
o:,unter­It also seems to Mr. Osborn that the Off ice of Security has made similar ~uclio 
sweeps for one or rrore individual congressrren or senators of their offices in 
th2 S2nc1te or House Office Buildings, but he again has no sp€cific rec..ullcction. 
The Office of Security also makes such S\11'eePS of the hones of officials of the 
CIA with their knowledge. 
'IDP Sf:O<...r.:T 
NW 50955 Docld:32203846 Page 8 
-
