13-00000 
' .ft !J 
constructive dialogue with the executive branch and the 
Congress about the character and disclosure of documents. 
4. How do you view the job of ARRB Executive Director? What role 
do you anticipate playing in the selection of ARRB Executive 
Director and staff? • .,.. 
Members of the ARRB are charged with appointing an Executive 
Director, whose. . responsibilities include serving as a 
principal liaison to Government offices; administering and 
coordinating the Board's review of records; and administering 
the official activities of the Board. The Executive Director 
will have no authority to decide or determine whether any 
record should be disclosed to the public or po~tponed ,,. for 
disclosure. That duty resides with the· Board •lone. The 
selection of staff members will be done in keeping-:!fith the 
statutory requirements. Staff members will ~ave no 811'f.b'ority 
to determine whether a record should be disclosedj Qr 
postponed. 
III. POLICY ISSUES 
1. Have you made any public statements -- oral or written -­
regarding the assassination of President Kennedy or the public 
availability of government records. regarding this 
assassination? Please explain, and provide copies of any 
relevant material. 
I have made no public statements. 
a) can you describe what prior experience you have had, if 
any, with using or examining security classified records 
of the Federal Government? 
From 1968 to 1969 I served as an officer in the United 
states Army, a position that required me to handled many 
classified documents and other materials. These documents 
ranged from war plans, to encrypted messages, to 
memoranda. and working papers on various intelligence 
matters. 
b) What do you think of our current security classification 
system? For example, would you say it op~ates well, has 
integrity, and serves the public interest? 
Although I have not worked with classified documents for 
some time, my general sense is that the present_ system 
probably - leans too .heavily toward classification and 
over-classification of materials that really do not 
deserve protection. My own experience in years past 
suggests a tendency to make- secret that which is­
conf identia 1 and confidential that which is really not 
3 
