II' , I 
( 
( 
\. 
a. 
10. 
.. 11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
SECTION 107. 1ECURITY INFORMANTS AND 
• 
CONFIDE"T"'IAL SOURCES . i 
Instruct each interested Bureau office which has le further dis-: 
instruoti~ns set forth semination of such information to follo"lr the 
aboveo · 
107S - T 
Also set up a control file regaraing this corrective action, ana upon 
comnletion of same submit to the Bureau a final letter under the in­
for;ant•s caption i4entifying each case by title, character, Bureau file, 
where known, and date of communication. 
This letter will be used· to check all pertinent Bureau files to see 
that necessary corrective action has been taken in each instance. 
If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
the informant should also be requestea t; submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been maaeo 
It is imperative that all information from the informant be correctly_ 
labeled and great care must be taken to see tha:t; this is done, 
Occasionally, an ex-informant through_ his speech, writings, or actions 
raises a aoubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of 
the information attributed to that inai vidual in the absence o.f a 
definite indication that th.e informant furnished unreliable informati_on 
to the Bureau while he was an informant, 
Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability shoula be made in accoraance with part II,. 
se·ction 5, of the Manual of Rules and .Regulations. 
[T.) CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. 
2. 
Definition 
See page 3 of this section, 
Assignment of symbols 
a.· A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved. 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name,_ address, business affiliation, 
symbol .number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnish~d. 
c. The abbreviation "CS" may be used in intra-Bureau commun·ications 
·for confidential source; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS," Communications. 
relating to espionage and foreign nationality matters should in 
addition have a character indicating the country involved; e.g., 
IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a permanent symbol has 
the abbreviation "CS" is to 
CS NY-000-S. 
been assigned to a confidential source, 
appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
e. Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from the 
series of numbers usea for your security, racial, and criminal 
informants. 
3. Index 
a, Index cards on form FD-348 like those prepared for informant~ must 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant index, 
racial informant index, or the security informant index, depending on 
the type of information furnished.· 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the symbol index on inform­
ants. 
c. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
criminal informant index, racial informant index, and the security 
informant index if the source furnishes information of value in these 
types of investigations. 
4. Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to an individual who 
has potential as a security conf~dential source, a 134 classification 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to develop the individual are discontinued. Files may be opened 
on corrfidential sources in criminal matters in a manner identical with 
that for handling criminal informant files in the ~iscretion of the 
SAC, 
. 27 
5-13-69 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1317 
! 
·I 
