s. 
( 
. , 
( 
6. 
7. 
~ 'ION 87. SECURITY INVESTI_GATH •. • · 87F 
Recommendation for and preparation of ADEX cards 
a. When potential dangerousness of subject has been established, office 
of origin is to prepare recommendation to Bureau on FD-122, in• 
triplicate. Forward original and copy to Bureau, and place copy in 
subject's file. FD-122 has three uses: (1) to recomrriend subject 
for ADEX, (2) to submit changes for existing cards, and (3) to recom­
mend subject be· deleted from ADEX. Submit abstract when recommending 
subject for.ADEX, or removal from ADEX, but no abstract for changes. 
b. When FD-122 is submitted to recommend subject for ADEX, attach additional 
page or pages setting out succinct summary of facts on which recom­
mendation based. Facts must be in sufficient detail to support 
recommendation, including justification for designated category. 
c. If, at conclusion of investigation, subject is not being recommended 
·for ADEX, closing communication should show reasons. • • 
d. Summary report must be submitted when subject is recommended for ADEX 
unless one was previously turnished to Bureau. In latter in~tance, 
up-to-date report or LHM should be submitted. If. case is pending be-· 
cause of outstanding leads, set out additional lead to follow 
authorization of ADEX' card by Bureau. If case would otherwise be 
closed, place in pending-inactive status with lead to fallow approval • 
by Bureau and then close administratively. . 
e. Do not delay recommendations for ADEX because of absence of background 
or descriptive data. Submit recommendation with current report and 
retain in pending status to obtain missing items. 
f. Subjects missing or out of country may.be recommended for ADEX. PD-122 
should include data required for unavailable section. 
g. If Bureau approves recommendation, ADEX cards will be prepared. Copy • 
of PD-122 will be returned stamped "ADEX card approved-and prepared, two 
copies attached. Place description and photograph on reverse side of 
Geographical card.''. These cards shouid be filed in field off ice ADEX 
as outlined below. Place returned copy of FD-122 in subject's main file. 
h. When cards are received from Bureau, check data for accuracy. Cards 
will be complete except for description and photograph, which are 
maintained on separate card stapled to back of one ADEX card. File 
this card in geographical section (except unavailable section cards.) 
Second ADEX card is filed in alphabetical section. 
Inclusion in Stop Index File 
a. Submit FD-122 in triplicate to Bureau when.designating _Category I ADEX 
subjects who are extremists for inclusion in Stop Index File. 
b. Succinct summary with FD-122 should contain recommendat_ion for inclusion 
in Stop Index File and appropriate descriptive. data. 
c. After recornr.1endation approved, the th~rd FD-122 copy wtll be forwarded; 
to the Voucher-Statistical Section which maintains the Stop Index File 
for Category I ADEX extremist subjects. 
Content and appearance of ADEX card 
a. Data to appear on face of card . 
When cor.1plete, face of ADEX card should contain following information. 
If any items are missing, keep case pending to obtain necessary 
information. Set forth under each item are possible categories in 
which subject may be classified and code letters for appropriate 
space on FD-122. These code letters will appear on cards received 
from Bureau. 
(1) Name and ali~ses 
Full and correct name and aliases of subject 
(2) Race 
White (Caucasian) 
Negro 
Chinese 
Others 
w 
N 
G 
(All others, including 
Indian, etc.) 
0 
Orientals 
33 
4-13-72 
(except Chinese), American 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1933 
