-37-
\three"45-caliber machine guns and 500 rounds of ammunition. The Navy 
:;'>_ ,,; 
\ ·" Captain said he had three machine guns himself "but can be identified 
by serial numbers as.having been issued to him. Therefore unable to 
use them." (Santiago 562, 18 October) Colonel Wimert and the ·chief 
of Station have testified that the officers wanted the machine guns 
for self-protection. The question, of course, is whether the arms were 
intended for use, or were used, in the kidnapping of General Schneider. 
The fact that the weapons were provided the Lt. Colonel _and the Navy 
Captain and that Viaux associates were convicted of the Schneider killing 
suggests that the guns were not involved. 
The machine guns and ammunition were se*t from Washington by diplo­
matic pouch on the morning of October 19, alth~ugh Headquarters was 
puzzled about their purpose: "Will continue make effort provide them 
but find our credulity stretched by Navy Captain leading his troops 
with sterile guns. What is special purpose for these guns? We will 
try send them whether you can provide explanation or not." (Headquarters 
854, 18 October) The first installment was delivered to the Army Lt. 
Colonel and the Navy Captain late in the eve_ning of October 18 and con­
sisted of the six tear gas grenades intended originally for Viaux.* 
* As previously stated, after October 15 CIA efforts to ·promote a coup in 
Chile fo_cussed on the active duty military officers--Valenzuela, et. al. -­
rather than Viaux. An example of this shift in focus was the decision to 
provide the Army Lt. Colonel and the Army Captain the tear gas grenades 
originally intended for Viaux. A cable from Santiago explained the purpose of 
this action: 
Station plans give six tear gas grenades to 
Colonel Wimert for delivery to Armed Forces 
officers (deletion) instead of having False 
Flag Officer deliver them to Viaux group. 
Our reasoning is that Wimert dealing with 
active duty officers. Also False Flagger 
leaving evening 18 October, and will not be 
replaced but Wimert will stay here. Hence 
important that Wimert credibility with Armed 
Forces officers be strengthened. 
(Santiago 562, 18 October) 
NW 50955 Docid:32423539 Page 473 
\ 1_.' 
\ \ 
\' 
-
