• 
u. a. Senate Select Comaittee to 
lltucly Govenaeatal Operat101UI Witb 
Reepeet to Iatelligenee Act1vitiee (88C) 
Re: Testillony o1 Retired FBI 
Bpecial Apat (&A) Robert R. 
•1cbol• Be1ore sac Executive Seaaion 
lfichola was qu.eatioued aa to wbat type of 
investigation coaeeraing Kin1 w.,. conducted beaidea the 
w of a t.«:hnical aurveillaa,,.. Bichola replied that he 
hacl att-pted to 1nit1a:te action to infiltrate the 8CLC 
with live illfol'llanta but that every one o1 hi■ •s-tiou 
a.loag this line wu turned down by 1'BI Headquarters. Sicbola 
furnished the reaaon for thelle rejectioaa aa beiq that tbe 
FBI did IIOt waat to interfere with civil right■ orgaaisationa 
but 1nd.1cated that 'the Bureau had never tolcl bia thi■ in 
the rejection■ and that it waa hi■ OWD rationale. Klchol■ 
inclieated tbat 1roa ti.lie to ttae spot ph79ieal il\lrYeill&DCell 
would take place in Atlarata to verify contact• be'tWHD 1'.iag 
and iad1Y~4u•J• Iman or auapected of being cowuaiarte . 
.Dltr1ng thiJI pb ... of the 1aterv1 .. , leidel -•tioned the aame 
of Barry Wachtel and Mic:hola &CllDOWl.edaed he ... one of 
nas•• contacta. In reap,.,w to a queatioa aa to wbetller or 
aot trash or aail cover■ ~ Wied against Etna, Wicbole 
reaponclecl that they wen aot. 
lDf1Uil'7 waa aade u to why eo au.ch reliance was 
placed by the FBI on technical c:overap of lting and IIO little 
waa done ia the way of pbyaical aurveillan.cee. Seidel 
poiat.a Gilt tbat a techaieal eurveillaace of aa illd1v1dllal 
was a greater 1Dfr1age■■nt o1 bi■ privacy tban waa a pbyaical 
nrve1llance. lficllol• responded. that the Bureau. did what it 
felt waa ue•sary to pt tile :uafOl'llatiOA it needed. 8eidel 
tbea dkecl Jlicbols how be would peraonal.17 feel about a 
technical tAlffeillaace oa hill, •1eholll. Nichol■' N8POJU1e 
was tbai he would rather have hie phone tapped. than to alway• 
be follOHCl &rCIIUDd.. 
•1cbol■ waa queationed concerning the authority for 
the technical ■urveillaace o1 .nae a.ad how lfichol.11 would 
learn of t111cb autbori ty. 11chol• e xplaiaed that be would be 
NW 38326 Docld:329896.11 Page 204 
l 
- 6 -
