• I 0 I 
4 
SF 14-207 
FSP:mb 
Co 
In the .March 20, 1966, issue of the "San 
- Francisco Examiner 1', a San Francisco, 
California, daily newspaper 5 information 
was set forth that FRANCIS GEORGE MEDAILLE 
was arrested in 1958 on a hor,1icide charge 
in New York for throwing a six-year old 
girl from the roof of a building. 
MEDAILLE was sent to a mental institution 
until May 5, 1963, when he pled guilty to 
a manslaughter charge, first degree. He 
received a five-to-ten year suspended 
sentence and was placed on five years 
probation. 
RICHARD D. CALLAHAN, Special Agent, Chief of Special 
Operations Section, 115th INTC~ Presipio, California, on 
January 7, 1966, made available a file pertaining to the appear­
ance of the leaflet in the vicinity of Fort Ord. A review of 
.the file revealed a report concerning 2..::1 j_nterview with A. C. 
COULAPIELES, Lieutenant, U. S. Navy 63S-t''', ,, .3ecurity OfficerJ 
U.S. Naval Postgraduate School (USNPS), Mc:,t~rey. Lieutenant 
COULAPIELES informed on October 26, 1965, tnat during the morning 
hours of October 23~ 1965, illembers of his cleanup detail at USNPS 
informed him that a number of VDC leaflets addressed, ,;ATTENTION 
ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL;; had been scattered at various ·points within 
the USNPS area. The report related a subsequent inspection of the 
area by the cleanup detail indicated leaflets had been dropped 
from outside the fence line at various points. The report further 
informed that the number of leaflets dropped was small. 
Mr. CALLAHAN related inasmuch as the investigation 
revealed the leaflets were dropped from outside the fence on 
military property, no further investigation was conducted by the 
_military authorities~ USNPS is approximately three miles from 
Fort Ord. 
-' In addition, Mr. CALLAHAN re cal led information -, 
indicating copies of the leaflet had been reported as a~pearing 
on the cement divider on the main highway between Marina and 
Monterey, California. Mr. CALLAHAN added that part of this 
highway runs adjacent to Fort Ord. 
EDWARD .MURPHY, NISO, 11th Naval District, San Diego, 
17 
NW38613 52 18 
