i • 
!07K-L 
9. 
10. 
11. 
SECTION 
\ ) . 
10. SECUR~TY INF0RMA.NTS .AND C~NFI.TIAL SOURCES. 
Use of informant by Department - filing correspondence re 
From time to time, Depar~ment expresses interest in using particular 
informant :for testifying when he becomes available as witness. Place 
copies of all correspondence of this type in informant's .file. 
Occasionally such correspondence may be voluminous and apply tq more 
than one informant. In those cases, summarize information concerning 
each informant and place SUlllmary in appropriate file. 
Form FD-238 
Form FD-238 (printed oµ pink paper} is used in security informant and 
potential security informant files in nature of table of contents or 
indez to show where in file particular data can be found. This form is 
to be kept as top document in informant file and is not to be serialized. 
If particular se.ct-ion of form is not applicable., note such thereon. 
Bulky material submitted by informant 
Where informant or source submits bulky material other tha·n stat~ment 
and same pertains to specific investigative matter, bulky material may 
be filed in investigative case file, together with copy of form FD-306 
or channelizing memorandum. File original form FD-306 or channelizing· 
memorandum in subfile of informant or source and note thereon file and 
serial number where bulky material is located. 
L. PA Yl1ENTS TO INF 0RM.4.1fTS 
1. No gifts to informants 
a. Gifts should not be given to informants. 
b. Relationship between .Agents and informants shall _be maintain-ad on 
businesslike basis. 
c. Investii~ative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance 
companies and request assistance regarding payments of money, gifts, 
or products of such companies to informants. 
2. SAC authority 
a. When deemed necessary and expedient t~ expend money to develop in-· 
dividual as informant to obtain information concerning security ( 
matters which is not otherwise obtainable or to advance expense money , 
to obtain such information, S.AC may approve payments up to $400 and 
totaling not more than $400 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of number 
of payments. This applies only to ,individuals who have never· been 
regularly paid for services or expenses on Bureau authorization. 
b. Individual who is paid on S.AC authority should not be described in 
correspondence as informant or source who is being paid on a "regular 
basis II or on "Bureau authorization. 11 
c. Blue slip reclaiming payments authorized by SAG must clearly and 
accurately explain circumstances and sum.narize information obtained 
so Bureau will be in position to pass intelligently on such matters. 
d. Prior Bureau authority must be obtained to make any additional paymen·l; 
to individual who has received payments totaling $400. O~ce -individual 
has been paid $400 and it appears he will i'urnish informa.ti on on 
regular basis, recommendation should be made to Bureau to pay him on 
ttregular basis. 11 
e • .All newly developed security informants are to be paid under SAC 
authority for the first six months unless unusual circumstances 
exist. If additional funds under S.AC authority are necessary during 
this period, submit request accompanied by detailed justification of 
past expenditures. 
3. Payments on a regular basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a regular b~sis, obtain specific Bureau authorization. 
b. In requesting this authorization, use form FD-401: 
(1} Membership 
List current membership and position held in any subversivP.-
[ group. [If position identifies informant, submit separately 
[ by secure teletype {nitel).] 
(2} Amount paid for services and expenses 
List by the month or week.· Initial justification letter should 
.set forth amount, if any, ever paid under SAC authority. 
{3) Number of activities and persons on whom coverage is provided 
List number and type of meetings attended and other activities 
and number of persons on whom informant furnishes cove~age and 
their importance. 
( 
\ 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1162 
14 
3-13-73 
! 
l 
. \ 
\ I I 
! i 
\ j 
' . l • I 
' .i 
l 
' • t 
"i 
' : 
; 
• I 
i I 
• i ! 
i 
! i 
I I 
i f 
I t 
i I 
~ 
I 
I 
