NW 38296 
• 
Memorandum to Mr. w. R. Wannall 
Re : Senstudy 7 5 
Briefing for Staff Members 
by Intelligence Division 
April 11 1 1975 
• 
~
hat this was inevitable. He stressed, however, the investi­
ative policies of the FBI which protected the constitutional 
ights and right of privacy of such individuals, 
On the domestic internal security side the thrust 
of the questioning appeared to indicate an interest in the 
predication, duration and administrative controls of investi­
gations of domestic organizations and individuals. Again, 
Mr. Wannall stressed the precautions inherent in FBI policy 
and instructions to the field in these matters, pointing out, 
in effect, that these investigations are founded on statutory 
\
authority and are closely supervised by experienced personnel 
at Headquarters level. The Committee staff appeared to accept 
these answers and no critical or hostile attitudes on their 
part were evident. 
The briefing was terminated at 12:20 pm, due to 
commitments on the part of the staff. Mr. Miller and 
Mr. Schwarz both expressed their appreciation for the briefing 
and indicated it had been most instructive~ They indicated 
a desire to continue these discussions at some later date and 
Mr. 1fannall assured them that he would be happy to continue 
the briefing at any future mutually agreeable time. 
Perhaps most significant of all questions posed was 
the final question by Mr. Schwarz in which he inquired as to 
what advantages and disadvantages to the FBI could be anticipated 
as a result of the Committee fulfilling its mandate 111 Mr. Wannall 
replied that any statutory authority defining and affirming the 
FBI's role in the intelligence collection field would certainly 
be a positive achievement. He also stated that any result of 
the Committee's investigation which would tend to limit the 
investigative resources or the investigative effectiveness of 
the FBI would surely be an unfortunate negative factor. 
RECOMMENDATION: 
None. For information. 
u)ruJ L .. ,,,,, 
fr""""" far-
/t~ 
- 2 
l'lf 
°'tty 
