13-00000 
. SOURCE: 
. 1968 RAMPARTS 
Article by William 
W. TURNER 
OS INDICES RESULTS: 
Subject became of-interest to the Office of Security in March·1964 
·when the FBI informed the Agency that Subject had in his possession at 
the time of his a:zrest for bank robbery at El Paso, Texas on 20 September 
1963 the name of Richard FECTEAU (an individual by this name was captured 
by the Chinese Communists and is.now in prison in China) and of six Agency 
employees .. Research .failed to reveal any reason why NAGELL had these 
names in his possession. It was concluded that while NAG.ELL is unquestionably 
unbalanced, his story of being involved in espionage is not fully contradicted • 
by evidence. He could have been contacted by a Soviet agent while in Washington, 
n~ C. in December 1962 or while he.was in Mexico City in September and October 
1962. His file contains mostly FBI reports dated 1962 and 1964 and in these 
are documented his history of mental instability and physical complaints 
stemming :fcQJm. the plam crash. .Attached is a chronology dated 3 March 1965 
made from the information contained in the FBI reports. At the time this 
security research was conducted, it was recommende~ that NAGELL be personally 
interviewed by a representative .pf OS in the hope that NAGELL might reveal 
how he came into the possessio~these n~s but no further action is indicated 
in his file and this interview was not undertaken • 
. DETAILS: 
Subject's file reflects no Agency interest in him prior to March 1964 
when the names of CIA employees were found in.his possession when arrested 
for bank robbery. 
The RAMP.ARTS claim that he received intelligence training after i;he pl!:lilEl,0 ~ ,-o~,,-,c-- • '",<~ 
crash is true. The crash • occurred 28 November 1954 and he" graduated :from -
Army Intelligence f?chool, Ft. Holabird, Maryland on 15 August 1955. He 
served in Korea and Japan as a member of the u. s. Army Counterintelligence 
Corps, terminating-about 1958. A Lt. Col. Ned W. GLENN who served with 
NAGELL personally in Korea advised that NA.GELL was not stable mentally and 
that this instability was probably due to .brain damage suffered in the airplane 
crash. 
The RAMPARTS article's claim that NAGELL said he fired the gun in the _ 
·bank at El Paso, Texas because he wanted to be in custody when the assassination 
took place is not completely in conflict with a statement NAGELL made on 
l January 1964 which was, however, after the assassination. (see page 4 of 
chronology) • 
The RAMPARTS article's allegation.that the FBI took from NAGELL a note­
book containing the names of CIA employees is true. 
NAGELL1 s complaint that he was 11salted away11 is open to speculltion. A 
ten year prisoil sentence does appear harsh, considering the documented brain 
