Hlf 5095.'i 
SECRET - SENSITIVE 
The information plugged into the indexing system will not become an 
actual file until there is some reason for opening a file on a particular 
person. At that point (for example, a file search requested by another 
Agency) all information relating to a particular person will be collated 
in one place. This, in turn will be developed into a separate file (a 
personality file). If the information on a particular person is requested 
by a CIA field office, the collation process would occur and the field would 
be told how the particular person had come to the attention of the Agency 
in the first instance and would also be told any derogatory information which 
the field station would want to know, 
Other CI files derived from on-going cases. Part of these files emanate 
from information provided to the Agency by defectors. For example, one 
element of this information is designated "Soviet leads." (}his is because the 
Cl staff learned from a defector that all Soviet women employed in the United 
States Embassy in the USSR during a certain.,period were Soviet agents, 
Some of these women, in turn, married Ame:ricans, and, as a result, now 
live in the United States. The FBI is advised of the identity of all these 
women. The CI staff, under official cover, occasionally goes out to inter­
view these women, in an effort to convince them to r~veal wh\'Lt they know 
about KGB operations. The effort was first to deter~ine whether the 
_ _, ·,,,,, . ' • ' • ' . . -
women continue to be KGB age11ts, and, if not, to g~ther information. fr<?rn 
them. The general modus operandi would be to tell the women that We know 
' • '.· ',, ':,_,",,! ,'_. ,_,, / •·;_ .. _'-- ,' ', . ' • '- ',; 
that at one time they were KGB agents and, while we did' not intend to take 
any action against them, to request them to reveal. information that they 
may have learned at that time c·oncerning.KGB operations. Generally, 
the women w:,~ld agree to do so. If they did not, ithih1,q.it'ra~t ~ould,. at 
least tempora:i:ily, be dropped. These women are4us·ed: a's "defectors who 
did not detect!<] 
Other examples of going cases are:Ja. jou:';nali~,tlwho had private contact 
with George Blake, a former KGB agent in Engiand; an Arne rican who 
was tied into the Able case (in this instance, the actions are taken by 
the Bureau, but guidance
1
/given by CI staff); and a journalist who the KGB, 
on three occasions, attempted unsuccessfully to recruit,,, 
Other files may relate to actions begun because of some kind of counter­
intelligence implication in a particular situation. In these instances CI 
would maintain the files because of the particular sensitivity of the matter, 
even though action may be taken by another Agency component. 
'-'Stein noted that the decision as to whether to utilize someone as a double agent is 
made by the CIA. If the decision is affirmative, the double agent would be handled by t 
Agency (if he is abroad) or by the FBI (if he is in this country). The only exceptions to 
this pattern would be where the double Agent is in the United States for only a brief tirn 
or where he has a specia1re1ationship with a particular CIA officer. 
5 
Doclcl:32105622 Page 6 
Photocopy 
from 
Gerald R Foo:11.furar, 
