SECTION 6e 
- PART II • 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CONl':A.CTS 
d. Ea.oh insert s·hould be filed with the bulletin to .;'l'hich it rela·!;es., 
No indexing of individua.l,notices contained therein is necessary. 
:!!:a.ch office must submit to the Bureau annually at lea.st three suggestions 
for articles, identifying the suggested author, and briefly describing 
the nature of the suggested articlec The article should not be prepared, 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested suthor until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained •. Suggestions may cover any.general o~ specific sub­
ject of law enforcement interest,-including the following~ 
a •. Better investigative .or administrat:i..ve _methods and teqhniques of 
·any nature, particularly those used o~ developed by YBT National 
Academy men . • . . , .. ,, • . : :. •• _ .: • _ 
b~ Improved or unusual equipment being used • • • '. 
Cc, Complicated 3 unus.ual., and well-handl.ed ~a.ses which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems "and ·excellent police work 
dQ Human interest items from local police work . 
e. Poli.ce and firear~s tra:i,ning subjects . _ 
f 0 Crimi prevent{6n articles from departmen~s which have taketi aggressive 
action to combat juvenile .delinquency • . 
g., Transmit a_ll material .to the Bureau under the-caption:, 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin' • • -'" 
Research (Crime Records) 
C0 SPEECHES 
1. Bureau is to be notified of all speaki"ng engagements.· Sp ea.king engage­
ments a.re to be handled by the SAC. If he cannot handle them, the A.SAC 
should. If neith~r can, an .A.gent previously approved as a speaker is 
to be designated and the Bureau advised U.A.CBo Changes in speaking engage­
ments must be communicated promptly to the Bureau. Three weeks prior to 
any radio or t·elevision speech, a manuscript of the speech must be· sub--
.. 
mi tted for the. Bureaur s review and approval., In some ether cases involv­
ing important spe,che~ not pn radio or tele~fsion, the Bureiu will 
specifically request such manuscripts. If speech is tci'be broadcast or ( 
televised, prior Bureau approval of manuscript and commitment must be 
obtained. These regulations, as well as all other FBI administrative 
procedures, should not be the subject of comment to the public. 
2. Copy of Bureau letter approving speaker should be placed in his field 
personnel file. 
3. Each office is to designate a supervisor to handle speech ~aterial~ 
To this supervisor must be route~ law enforcement bulletins, FBI Notes, 
interesting case material~ magazines, research literature, an~ newspaper 
clippings containing information of value to police instructors and 
approved speakers. This material to be indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in the speech material fileso 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting oases may be: 
a. Requested by the ~ureau 
b. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c~ Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
c. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d~ Novel investigations of human interest 
3. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b. aureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c, Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d. Accurately 
e, .A.fter a review of the entire file 
f, In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
2 
9-30-60 
( 
