f107W 
") - ~ 
SECTION 107. [INT.AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CON.ENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
31. Corrective action on false information 
a. When it is determined that current asset or former asset has fur­
nished false information, promptly inform FBIHQ of complete facts. 
b. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in 
describing asset in future, such as "source of known unreliability" 
or "source who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information 
in the p'as t. :, 
c. FBIHQ will advise which designation to use; the field office will 
then proceed with review of all data furnished by asset and label 
information from him accordingly. . 
d. All communications containing information from asset which have 
been sent to FBIHQ, FBI field offices, and to outside agencies 
must be corrected. Corrective action should be taken by letter. 
Identify cases individually by title and character, together with 
dates of communications containing information from asset. Correc­
tive letters should refer to specific report, page number, and 
change to be made. Amended pages should not be prepared unless you 
are so instructed by FBIHQ in accordance with instructions of 
part II, section 4, Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
e. Instruct each field office which has m~de further dissemination of 
asset's information to follow instructions set forth above. 
f. Set up control file regarding this corrective action and upon 
completion of same submit to FBIHQ final letter under asset's 
caption identifying each case by title, character, FBIHQ file number 
if known, and date of communication. This letter will be used to 
check all pertinent FBIHQ files to see that necessary corrective 
action has been taken. 
g. If necessary, other field offices which have received information 
from asset should also be requested to submit summary letters 
showing what corrections have been made. 
h. Occasionally, former asset through his speech, writings, or actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to time he was 
asset. It is not necessary to go back and change evaluation of 
information attributed to that former asset in absence of definite 
indication that he furnished unreliable information while he was 
asset. 
i. Dissemination of information from assets of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
32. Discontinuance of assets 
Advise FBIHQ under asset's symbol number caption when services of asset 
are discontinued. 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1212 
. 38 
10-15-74 
) 
' . I 
) 
• ~ ! 
• 
~ i 
i 
\ 
~ 
~ . l 
( . f 
~ 
i f 
~ l 
I 
·:) 
. & , 
~ 
