-10-
"\ 
I think the.meeting of September 15th has to be 
seen in the context of two previous meetings of 
the 40 Committee on September 8th and September 
14th in which the 40 Committee was asked to look 
at the .pros and cons and the problems and pros-:­
pects of a Chilean military coup to be organized 
.with United States assistance. 
(Kissinger testimo~y, p. 5) 
·According to the summary of the 40·Committee meeting on September 
8, the following was discussed~ 
... all concerned realized that previous plans for 
a Phase II would have to be drastically redrawn .... 
the DCI made the point, ho~ever, that congressional 
action·against Allende was not likely to succeed 
and that once Allende was in office the Chilean 
opposition to· him would disintegrat~ and collapse 
. rapidly. While not advocating a specific course 
of action, the Director further observed that a· 
military golpe against Allende would have very 
little chance of success unless undertaken soon, 
Both the Chairman and the Attorney General supported 
this view .... At the close of the .. ~me~ting the 
Chairman directed the Embassy to prepare a "cold­
blooded assessment 11 of: 
1) the pros and cons and problems and pros­
pects involved should a Chilean military 
coup.be organized now with U.S. assistance, 
and 
2) the pros and cons and problems and pros­
pects involved in organizing an effective 
future Chilean opposition to Allende. 
(CIA Memorandum/Policy Decision Related to Our 
Covert Action Involvement in the September 1970 
Chilean Presidential Election, 9 October 1970) 
Ambassador Korry responded to the 40 Committee's request for a 
"cold-blooded assessment" on September 12. He stated that "We Lthe 
Embassy/. believe it now clear that Chilean military will not, repeat 
not, move to prevent Allende's accessi~n, barring unlikely situation 
of national chaos and widespread violence." The Ambassador went on to 
say that "Our own military people Lar!=_/ unanimous in rejecting possi-
-... 
~L 
-
k-.. r.;,f~ 
' f.'.,--
i •• 
k-rt-•··"' 
~ 
,............ 
