13-00000 
..... -· ... •• ....... .-· 
-
~•-.-.,· __ q:7_ ... 
..• ----!~---.-:·. 
°I¾ /.. r.. N '"'" . B t"). ti ~,., 1; IJ 5 >, S f7'H'I, tG.1 71kr l> n:f ~ ~ I< J ,:: (3 I 
11»y t.J I CJ/-"{ 
Mr. STERN. I think he might be able to highlight the answe.r. We have the 
exact answer on· the record, and I thought It might--
The CHAmMAN. Well, highlight it, If there is anything in addition I would 
think that would be relevant and pertinent. But to 'ask him to paraphrase 
that which he has done with great meticulousness would seem to me to be 
abortive and would take a lot of our time, and I don't see what it would prove. 
If yO'U have anything In addition that you want to ask him, if you want to 
ask him if there is anything In addition he has not put in there, that is all right. 
But to just ask him to paraphrase answers that have been done with great 
care would seem· to me to be confusing the record, and serve no purpose . 
Mr. STERN. I might ask, Mr. Belmont, whether there ls anything you would 
like to add or amplify In these questions? 
Mr. BELMONT. I believe the answers speak for themselves, although In view 
of Mr. McCloy's questions a little while ago, I would be very happy to make 
clear our approach to this matter. For example, th~ fact that our interest 
in defectors, in this case, ls shown by the fact that tn early November 1959 • 
w~ opened a file on Oswald based on the newspaper publicity as to his defection. 
And the fact that he had applied to renounce his citizenship. We checked our 
files then to see was this a man we had a record on, and found that we had a 
fingerprint record solely based on his enlistment in the Marines. 
We had no other record on him but we placed a stop or a flash notice In our 
fingerprint files, at that time so that if he shautd come back Into the. country 
unbeknownst to us and get into some sort of trouble we would be Immediately 
notified. That ls our opening Interest in the case with the thought in mind 
that should he come back to the country. we would . want to know from him 
whether he had been enlisted by Soviet Intelligence· in some manner. 
That ls our procedure because of our experience that these things have hap­
pened, and we consider It our responsibility to settle that Issue whenever we can. 
Mr. STERN. Could you explain, Mr. Belmont, this procedure of placing a 
stop in the files that you just referred to? • 
Mi'. BELMONT. We merely notify our Identification division to place what we 
call. a flash. notice in the man's fingerprint file, which means that should . he 
be arrested and the fingerprints be sent to the FBI, that the appropriate division, 
in this case the domestic intelligence division, would be ·notified that the man 
had been arrested, for what and where he was arrested, thus e:r;iabllng us to 
center our attention nn him. ' 
Our ·next interest in this ·man arose as a result of the fact that his mother 
had sent, I believe,. $25 to him in Moscow, so we went to her in April 1960 
and we talked to her. At. that time she told us that he had told her that he 
would possibly attend the Albert Schweltzel" College in Switzerland. 
So as a followup, we had our legal attache In Paris make inquiry to ·see 
whether he had enrolled in this college. The resultant check showed that while 
they had expected him and a deposit had been placed that he did not show up 
at the college. • • 
Mr. STERN~ I thlnK that ls all covered in quite adequate detail in the answer 
to the first question. 
Mr. DULLES. I have one question.I would like to put to you on the first ques­
tion and answer In your letter of. April 6, in Exhibit 833-the Bureau's letter 
of April 6. Yo\1 refer, first, to the fact that the first news you got about Oswalcl 
was from a news service Item, and then l~ter on at the bottom of the second . 
full paragraph you state, "A·. file concerning Oswald was prepared and as 
communications were .received from other U.S. Government agencies those 
communications were placed In his file." • 
The- record· may show the other communications, I guess our record does 
show, but do you feel that you adequately were advised by the State Department 
as this case developed or by the CIA or other agencies that might have known 
abo'ut It? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes. We received a number of communications from other 
agencies, and we set up a procedure whereby we periodically· checked the State 
Department passport file to be kept advised of his activities or his dealings 
with the Embassy In Moscow so that on a periodic basis we were sure we had 
all information In the State Department file. 
7 
