[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
6..\. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
. 6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
P.ART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Requesting authority ·for.release 
a. By teletype 
~t least four hours before the time of release, developments in the 
case, an outline of the release, a,nd stat~ment release will be made 
U.ACB are to be furnished the Bureau. 
b. By telephone where time is of essence 
Confer with division head having supervision of the matter for 
investigative clearance and with the office of the division h·ead of 
the Crime Records Division for final press clearance. While good 
judgment mus·t prevail, in important cases in which -a local newspaper 
deadline is approaching,. it may be advisable to ·telephone the Bureau 
for clearance .. 
Press releases are to be made_personally only b.y the SAC or in his absence 
by the AS.AC. 
Releases are to be made both at headquarters.and the local area affected 
by developmen_-ys. .All material prepared for the public must be· reviewed 
word for word. :i:t is not to contain wordo1 or phrases which might be 
r~garded as objectionable or offensive to a member of any race, creed,. or 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized ·wherever 
possible, and all press releases should be coordinated to eliminate any 
avoidable delays. • • 
In the. absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the public. interest, 
no statement should bi put in an announcement to the press· to the effect • 
that a subject either has confessed or has admitted his· crimes without 
specific Bureau a~proval. In qase of doubt, consult th~ Bureau. When 
the fact that a su,bject has given a confession is included in a, complaint 
and an inquiry•is forthcoming from the press, a "no comment" reply should 
be given. The complaint is a court record and must be left to speak for 
itself. • 
On-the-spot announcements by S.AC are authorized in emergency situations 
in which good judgment so dictates. Emergency on-the-spot-·statements by 
.Agents limited· to their official identity and, if known, .t.he identity of 
fugitive or criminal i~ gun battle. If badly wanted fugitive apprehended 
in remote. area and S.AG absent., Agent may, in rare emergency only and where 
time of essence, furnish bare details. Contact by SAC with press should 
be effected immediately where press desires further details. , · • 
In the normal process of issuing press releases,[either local br national, 
SACs may, when requested, make personal appearances for television and radio, 
provided no interviews are conducted and there is absolutely no elaboration 
over and above the original press release. These conditions should be made 
known in advance to television and radio station representatives when such 
requests are received.]_ . 
In the absence of special circumstances, Bureau Agents should never suggest 
or request a reporter or another representative of a newspaper or similar 
publication to withhold the publication of news. In the event ~hat special 
c·ircumstances do exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bureau prior 
to making any such request. • 
In cases involving bombings having an apparent racial or religious basis 
with the resultant public interest, the SAC should issue a statement to 
the press indicating the S.AC has arrived at the scene or is en route to 
actively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them 
every possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the Bureau's full 
laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by handling 
out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts that 
may indicate any Federal violation. At no time should this statement 
indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility for. 
the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance of this state­
ment requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press 
release file if exists. 
la 
12-27-65 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1004 
( 
( 
