530 011GANIZED CnI:\IE AN.D ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS 
It has nlso bc('n obvious to us that the Trnfficante organization has 
controlled the Blackburn opPration for at least the last, 10 yca1:s. 
From onr examination of :c;cizc<l records, and from the fact that m 
nl.l mids on the checkup houses ,i:-e have. arrested persons having 
close family tics with the Traflicante organization who were acting 
as auditors for his interests. In addition, there has bren he:wy tele­
phone toll trnffic IJctween the Trnfficantes in Tampa and tho BlacklJurn 
group in Orlando. 
·when Blacklrnrn "·as arrested in Ul!'\:-1, n memorandum was found 
containing telephone numbers of Augustine Primo Lazzara, Salva­
tore .T. Lorenzo, J. III. Caccintorr,-1rnclc oE :;,innto Trnfiicante, ,Jr.-and 
Santo Trnffi.cnntc, ,Tr., and of the Nebraska and Flamingo Bars, both 
o,rned by the Trnfftcnnte family. 
In 1!)37 a search of a gambiill/! honse in Ornnge County by a State 
officer, with the assistance of the Or1:rndo Po1ice, resuHed in the 
arrest of several persons. One of these ,ms Lorenzo and another per­
son by the name of Leto, from Tampa. They both ga,;e s"·orn state­
ments at that time to the county solicitor that they were working for 
Santo Trafficante, ,Jr. 
In Non~mlJer 18Gl, another raid was conducted by agents of the 
Intemal Tiennue Service in conjunction with the Orlando Police 
Department on a. house in Orange County. There Y•:ere six persons 
nITC'ste<l, and amon',!: those "·ere Arman<lo Rios and Sum Cacciatore. 
These two were cousins of Santo Trafficantc, ,Jr. 
In July 1DG3, a mid on a gambling house in Sanford, Fla., by the 
IRS agents,. "·it h the assistance of the Orlando Police Department, 
estalJlishecl that it was another operation of Harlan Blackburn's, 
supervised by Clyde Lee. In the records seized there ,ms the phone 
n11ml.Jer of Traflicante's cousin, John Fanlta. Cacciatore, and the 
phone numl.Jer of the printing establishment employing Stefano 
Scaglione, ,Yho is also on the chart. 
During the past 12 yea1·s that we know of at least three murders 
that. haYe IJeen due to lights for control of lottery operations in the 
Orlando area. 
The fantastic amount of money taken in by these 1ottery operations 
has been repeatedly established by our raids of these gamblin!:; honses. 
For example, the raid in UlG7 in Orange County, "·here Frank Fencri 
and Sam Lorenzo "·ere arrested, disclosed that the house was doing 
a gross business of $100,000 per "·eek . 
.Senn tor l\I t:SKIE. YVhat were they paying out? 
:\[r. Br.ANCIT. The profit on this operation runs abont 30 percent. 
The November rnrn rai<l in Orange County where Armando Rios 
and Sam Cacciatore, cousins of Santo Trnflicante, were arrested re­
waled that operation was doing a conservatively estimated gross of 
$1C0,000 per week. 
The CnAHrnAN. W'ith the same ratio of half applying there 1 
1\fr. BnANCII. Yes, sir. 
Senator l\fn,rn:rn. '\Vhen yon sny "net profit," this means after 
deductions of the commission which totaled 35 percent? 
1\Ir. BnAxcn. Yes,sir. 
Senator MusKm. And the prizes. 
l\fr. BnAxcn. Yes, sir. 
Jhe commission and also the prizrs and what other operating ex­
penses they may have such as automobiles, rent, telephone bills. 
NW 50955 Docid:32423630 Page 670 
ORGA, 
The lntesl 
$2fi~l,OOO per 
I• l'om tho, 
The CuAr; 
l\Ir. BnA:-; 
Orlando. 'I 
and auditors 
From the~ 
heavily into 
reYenues are 
nized crime. 
Any nddit 
further restr 
stnntial blow· 
Senator )1 
was it dishon1 
Mr. Biuxc 
They don't 
They stop at 
The Crurn 
Afr. TIRAXCI 
The C1urn 
cannot get his 
1\fr. BnANcr 
Thank you 
The C11,\m\ 
be afraid top 
All rio-ht c 
,Stan,t'by; s1 
:Mr. 13nAxc11 
Tl 
. Mr. Br:owx. 
It is necessary 
l!ntes from tf1e 
_rna7 and 10-!5. 
ll_L on all i llega i 
city wns refot're 
Senator .Mus 
papers? 
Mr. Bnowx. 
During the 1 
rackets to any ,T 
1\f. YVall, start~1 the iJle,.,.al 0'•1n·1 
I'I . b ,.,, 
' oncb. He st· 
admitted•to a Ji 
lllg from illeg-al 
by entering mtc 
. The elder Trn 
l!1 1D04: and beca 
cf the missin"" 
Tampa. He die, 
nrrest for Santo, 
In ID52, Wall 
