13-00000 
. -. 
-4-
decision indirectly supports S.J. Res. 282•s "clear and convincing" 
standard. For, my original 198o request and receipt in 1983 of the 
heavily redacted Hoover file had become known to U.S. News alld World 
Report which devoted its "1984 11 issue of December T9S'3to summarizing 
the contents of the released Hoover file. The resulting publicity heightened 
public and media interest in the heavily redacted Hoover file. By 1989 1 
if not 1985, FBI officials were no longer williug to risk FOIA litigation 
challenging their claimed interpretation of the FOIA's exemptive provisions. 
My second example bears indirectly on how the FBI would process a 
FOIA request for still-unreleased wiretap records first diclosed by the 
House Assassination CoUBDittee. The House report had disclosed that FBI 
wiretap intercepts recorded critical comments of organized crime leaders, 
ootably Carlos Marcello, regarding the Kennedya. Did the Mafia put a 
"contract" out on John Kennedy? Did FBI officials purposefully ilithhold 
this information from the Juatice Department and the Secret Service in 
1963 and ther. from the Warren Commissior. in 1964? The answers to these 
questions would require the release of the wiretap transcripts as-well 
as other FBI memos recording ho-..· the FBI dealt with these transcripts. 
My experience involving ho~ the F'~I has processed my requests for other 
FBI wiretaps suggests that any FOIA-released Kennedy documents will be 
st redacted as to preclude aoswers to these quest.ions. In describing one 
of my FBI wiretap requests, let me also outline for the Committee the 
considerably broader 11records universe" sought by scholars and wr.ich 
distinguish our approach from those of journalists, congressional staff, 
and lawyers. 
This case of_ FBI wiretapping involved Henry Grune· ... ·:-.ld, a Washington, 
D.C.-based investigator with close ties to New York· insuranc-e·exec-u-tiv·e-- ---- -
Henry Marsh, isolationist Republican COl16ressmen, former New Dealer Thomas 
Corcoran, and i-ashington bureaucrats. FBI officials were keenly inter.ested 
in Grunewal~ ' .. activities I confirmed by the j_ncluaion in Hoover I s office 
file of two folders containing the transcripts of two FBI wiretaps of 
Grunewald in 19'+1 and 1945. As in the case of the Fortas document, these 
two folders had originally been withheld in entirety on sources and methods 
and personal privacy grounds. The released 1941 wiretap traDScript~ 
particularly interested me as I had learned from documents contained in 
former FBI Assistant Director D. Milton La.dd's still exy.nt office file 
that Grunewald, as other conservative critics of the Roosevelt Administration, 
became the subject of FBI "espionage" investigative interest during the 
early 1940s. The I.add file, however, did not resolve whether this l~l 
wiretap had been known or authorized by the Attorney General or the White 
House. Accordingly, I filed a further FOIA request for the FBI's headquarters 
files on Grunewald. The released, redacted records confirmed the BooseTelt 
Administration'• interest in Grunewald's activities in 194o but (see Appendix 
B>:' either because of redactions or the Justice and Treasury Departmenta• 
failure to have processed A3 yet documents which they ·originated the 
