107P - Q. SECTI01-T 10'4t SECURITY lliFORM.A..l'fTS .AND CONF.IA.L SOURCES 
P. SIGNING OF LOYJ~LTY O.ATHS, .AFFIDAVITS, .A.HD STATEMENTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them tci sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep the contacting Agent fully 
advised of any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a 
form. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided, 
4. The Bureau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant's activity; however, such situations 
must be kept to a minimum in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
5 0 Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau i-s to be 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed action. 
6. In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
Cl.. DISCON'l'INU.!!!D INFORM.ANTS 
1. When the services of an info·rmant are discontinued, mark the name card 
"cancelled." Destroy the symbol card. Never destroy the name card. 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symbol number in the symbol 
number index. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued potential 
security informant or confidential source to whom a symbol number was 
once a~signed later is reactivated, remove his name card from the 
symbol number index 7 mark it reactivated with appropriate date, note 
thereon type of information he will novr be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the· name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential security informant or confidential source is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4. Advise the Bureau[of the date]when a potential informant or informant is 
discontinued and the reason therefor. . 
5. Advise the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to testify 
in open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity.of 
all cases of security of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance with section 69F$ volume III, of this manual. 
6. Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Depart.:. 
ment's interest in usi-ng the informant for testifying v,hen he becomes 
available as a witness are contained therein. In those casesin which it 
is evident the Department has indicated a. desire to consider the infc­
ant further when he becomes available, ·advise the Bureau in each sue' 
substantive case, except in those cases in which it is obvious the s. 
of limitations has r~n or the case has been adjudicated. This except~~ 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the Bureau. 
7 • .A statement shall also be made to the effect that the measures to con-
. tro 1 informants., set out in 8 below, have been considered and recommenda­
tions sh~ll be made wheri it appears that such are warranted. 
8. When the services of an infor~ant are discontinued, maintain close con-
. tact with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any aition which would be again~t the Bureau's 
best interests. When an informant is discontinued, determine whether 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newspaper article, or other­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the· 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than making other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1570 
24 
4-13-64 
