[ 
[ 
[ 
6G 
NW 38321 
PART ·.II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, 'PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS ' 
2. Id·entification orders,. ·wanted fiyers, check circulars, and apprehens:i,on 
orders 
Each f:i,eld office must !!13-intain a mailing list· compos·ed of individuals 
and organizations to which identification orders, wanted flyers, c~eck 
circulars, and apprehension ord
0
ers are to be sent. "Each field office must 
:+-ev-iew annually its maili'ng list in order to see that no data is sent to 
firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations . 
.A survey should be conducted by .A.gents each year by every office, at the 
time the field offica mailing list is purged, to determine whether addi­
tional. names of individuals and businesses should be added to the fieJ.d 
of:fice• .mail.ing list. . .. • . ; • 
a. ·Addressograph plates are to'be prepared at the Bureau upon receipt of 
field request. (.The- Bureau will prepare, on.it~ ovin initiative, 
.Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
h. Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns ar·e 'to app·e:3-r on 
-the· list. ,,· '· 
(1) The quality of the assistan~e the addressee is in a ~osition to 
give , .. 
• (2) The· cooperation which has been afforded 
•· (3) .The following must ·appear ·on the list: · · 
Alcohol and To:t>aoco Tax Division : Missions Providing .L.odgin·g 
Bureau of Customs Post Office Inspectors 
Coop era ti ve Credit· Bureaus • Postmasters . • 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Salvation-Army 
ment Officers Secret Service 
FEIN.A Graduates U. s. Marshals 
Hotels • •• 
Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service 
(4) The following may appear on the list: 
Automobile Clubs 
Banks 
[Car Re~tal Agencies] 
County Attorneys 
County Coroners 
Credit Companies 
Detective Agencies 
Enlistment Of.ficers, [U. s. Air 
Force,]Army, Navy, Marine Corps 
Employment Service 
Fire Departments 
Forest Service 
Gunsmiibhs 
Insur?~ce Companies 
Movie Studi-0s 
Navy Shore Patrol 
Oil Company Special Agents • 
Parole and Probation Officers 
Plant Quarantine Officers 
Prote~tive Associations 
Race Tracks 
Savings and Loan .Associations 
Service Recruiting Offic·ers 
State Employment O~fices 
State Hospitals for Insane 
Steamship Companies 
Telegraph Companies 
U. s_. Attorneys 
U. s. Commissioners 
c.· Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. 
Should a compelling reason· exist for distril:iu·tion-· of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employme.nt 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approvai for 
such distribution. • 
d. Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels.· 
e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has respon::d.biiiry for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
993 
4 
2-27-62 
( 
\ 
