•• CLAIRE 1-, .-BROWN 
• ... --...,.--,--=---::-------:::::-
.c. 5021 Seminary Road, #11(5,1 
(703) 379-1379 
Alexandria, Virginia 22311 . Voting 
CAREER OBJECTIVE 
To develop and improve communication, understanding, prograJiLFi~g, aria/or poricy 
between the Federal Government and State and local agencies and associations. 
EXPERIENCE SUMMARY 
• Extensive experience evaluating and interpreting Federal education legislation 
and regulations to determine the impact on State and local educational agencies. 
• Congressional and Executive liaison to Senate, House, and education asso~iations 
responsible for analyzing and evaluating legislation and Federal regulations. 
o Related ~xperience in curriculun planning and educational research and in library 
and education programming on the local, State, and Federal level. 
• Reviewed with education association executives, the impact of pending legislation 
on their interest group. 
• Five years experience as a public school librarian and teacher. 
EDUCATION 
Henry Grady High School, Atlanta, Georgia, 1965. 
B.S., Ohio State University, 1969. (Education) 
M.S., Boston University, 1970~ (Library Science) (Audio-Visual Education) 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
PROGRAM ASSISTANT, Office of Libraries. and Learning Resources, U.S. Office of Ed., 
Washington, D.C. Researched and analyzed completion reports, compiled statistical 
information, and wrote a comprehensive national surrnnary of public library con-
_struction £tom Federal funds. (1976) 
LIBRARIAN, Office of Career Education, U.S .. Office of Education, Wash., D.C. 
Implemented a resource center of available career education materials from all 
over the U.S. Wrote annotated bibliographies of specialized materials on women 
and on the mentally and physically handicapped. (1976) 
CONSULT.ANT, D.A. • Lewis Associates, Inc., Clinton, Maryland. Researched,· wrote,·.· 
and developed contract proposals in response to U.S. Gov't. R.F.P. 's, particularly 
in library and Indian education programs. (1976) 
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSIST.ANT, Committee for Full Funding of Education Programs, 
Washington, D.C. Served as principal personal assistant to the Exec. Dir. and 
worked with him in.all phases of the operation. Worked as liaison with Executive 
and Legislative branches.of government for other groups interested in educational 
funding (public s·chools~ universities, libraries, handicapped, etc.) tp coordinate 
an effort for full funding of education programs on a Federal level. Initiated 
legislative communications (phone & letter) to inform members and association 
executives of pending bills. Attended hearings and meetings, reviewed and analyzed 
Congressional Records and Federal Registers, and managed the financial records of 
the Committee. Collected and organized bills, reports, and background materials on 
pending education appropriations and budget legislation. (1975) 
' I 
_: 
r --
' ! 
\ 
I 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
