13-00000 
3. In dealing with the Miami Base, Simmons stuck strictly to 
the relationship between Headquarters and a foreign station. His 
command channel was, of course, via Chief of W/4 to the Chief of 
Miami Base to Morales. He and Morales understood each other 
perfectly and there was no ~ obstacle of any sort • in their , ; c 
collaboration. There was no second-guessing or double case of~ri.ng 
1n CI matters. ' 
4. Simmons and his section ran a number of CI ops directly 
from Headquarters. He referred to the following: 
a. A certain lady of easy virtue who had a vast acquaintance 
among the top Castro people. 
b. A Greek sailor who for eight years bas worked for the 
Agency as a-penetration in Communist maritime unions in various 
countries. 
c. A certainufo~ri.Mpanish intelligence office~Amshad, 
who has been living in/~l'ii"ome of the chief of G-2. • Unfortunate4s 
an expected<:9astro~official appointment did not materialize and this 
operation has not proved to be of much value. 
d. A former U.S. negro citizen now in the Cuban service. 
e. Juan Orta, former chief of Castro's executive office, 
now out of office. 
5. Simmons gave me the attached copies of four basic documents. 
Tab A - WH/4 counterintelligence plan, June 1960 
Tab B - Counterintelligence plan for an FRD security 
late August 1960 • 
Tab C - CI program for future project, 20 April 1961 
Tab D - Counterintelligence assets, 29 April 1961 
In addition,Morales gave me a copy of a dispatch summarizing Miami's 
CI assets currently in Ouba, (Tab E). 
6. ·Relations with PM Section: Simmons' relations with the PM 
section seem to have·been marked with a considerable amount of friction, 
perhaps more than always results from the resentment operators feel at 
the inhibiting influence of the CI man. Thus whenever a FM agent was 
lost, a CI man would analyse the files and draw a damage sheet showing 
what the agent knew, etc. . Simmons showed me a large file containing 
about 50 of such cases. This work was made more difficult because the PM 
people kept only very skimpy records. A CI representative, Rothwell, 
' . - ·-- 2 -
j .J .- ~ 
