14-00000 
• Richard Gibson and the Free Cuba Committee 
o Howard Hunt 
• Priscilla MacMillan Johnson 
• Valeriy Kostikov 
• Mr. & Mrs . George de Mohrenschildt 
• Yuri Nosenko 
• Michael & Ruth Paine 
• David A. Phillips 
• Richard Snyder 
• Win Scott 
Prior to enactment of the JFK Act, in early 1992, the 
Chief of the CIA History Staff, through various manual 
searches of shelf lists, located the "sequestered 
collection" of the House Select Committee on Assassinations 
(sixty-four record center size boxes). After obtaining the 
permission of the Congress, his staff surveyed these and 
other related holdings on the assassination. In addition, 
the History Staff located sixteen boxes 'of Lee Harvey 
Oswald's 201 file and a number of loose folders, mainly from 
Mexico City Station records that had been collected for the 
Warren Commission. 
In October 1993, following enactment of the JFK Act but 
prior to tpe President's appointment of the Board, CIA's 
Historical Revi~w Group (HRG) requested the directorates to 
conduct a name search on Lee Harvey Oswald, JFK 
assassination, and any related documents (Tab 1). This 
request r_esulted in a series of meetings and discussions 
with various Agency components and Information Release 
Officers. More than thirty-one additional boxes of 
materials were sent to HRG for review. Included in this 
material were nineteen boxes of JFK working files of Mr. 
Russ Holmes, a CIA employee who for many years was the -
Agency's focal point officer with responsibility for 
responding to questions related to our assassinated-related 
records. Also included were two boxes on Nosenko, seven 
boxes of Latin America Division documents, and three boxes 
from the Bay of Pigs project. Out of these thirty-one 
additional boxes provided to the Board staff, approximately 
twenty-two boxes of material were designated by the Board as 
assas.sination records. The preponderant volume of these 
records is duplicative of documents in the sequestered 
collection. 
in April 1995, after the Agency received the Board's 
first formal request, and in anticipation of "what are 
4 
