I 
! 
6A PART II 
-SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS , AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
4. News Media Inquiries 
Theri= are two categories of news media inquiries. The first involves 
routine inquiries received at the field office regarding either investi­
gative or administrative matters. These should be answered by the SAC 
or ASAC within the guidelines indicated above. 
In responding to such i~quiries, SACs and ASACs should be courteous, 
factual, and as helpful as possible. They should, however, avoid 
answering hypothetical questions or questions that would require them 
tp express personal opinions on matters of intense local or national 
controversy. 
The second category involves inqu1r1es from the news media·in emergency 
situations. Often these are received by Speci~l Agents at the scenes-
of arrests, gun battles, or other ·fast-moving developments in investigationso 
Unless undercover assignments or similar overriding circumstances dic-
tate otherwise, Special Agents who are approached by newsmen at the scenes· 
of fast-moving developments in FBI cases should (a) identify themselves 
as "a Special Agent of the FBI," (b) furnish the name of the field office 
• to which they are assigned, and (c) ·state the general nature of. the inves­
tigative operations, such as 11We are here to serve an arrest (or a search) 
warrant .. " Requests for additional information should be answered by 
courteously refe+ring the newsman to the field office or to the tem-
porary field headquarters if such a temporary field headquarters has 
been establish~d in the area. 
Only SACs or ASACs should participate in question-and-answer interviews 
with representatives of any news medium at the scenes of fast-moving 
developments in FBI cases o In emergency situations, .. however, Special ( 
Agents can relay reporters' questions to the SAC by telephone or radio; \ 
and the·SAC's responses thereto can be furnished to the reporters in 
the SAC's name by a Special Agent. In other than such emergency situa­
tions, Special Agents should courteously refer newsmen to the SAC or 
ASAC for answers to their questions; and Special Agents' investigative. 
responsibilities attendant to such fast-moving developments must take 
precedence over questions or inquiries of newsmen. 
No FBI employee should knowingly furnish an erroneous, deceptive, or 
misleading answer to a news media inquiryo In the overwhelming majority 
of cases, an unequivocal and definitive answer can be given reporters' 
questions regarding whether the FBI is, or is not, investigating a 
specific criminal act, as well as the reason why we have or have not 
instituted investigationo However, in kidnap-for-ransom cases and 
related crimes involving a threat against human life, neither the fact 
that the crime has occurred, nor the fact that the FBI is investigating 
it, should be disclosed or ·confirmed without the approval of the sub­
stantive investigative division and the External Affairs Division~ 
Dµe tq the sensitivity of many banking-type institutions to publicity 
concerning the a,~ount of loot obtained in robberies, burglaries, and 
larcenies of financial institutions, such information should not be 
disclosed to news media without the concurrence of the General Investi­
gative Division and the External Affairs Division. 
le 
2-27-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1081 
