13-00000,. 
,~ \·Se: 1ator 
John Glenn 
IMMEDIATE RELEASE: 
May 12, 1992 
News Release 
Contact: Jack Sparks (202) 224-5635 
Leonard Weiss (202) 224-4751 
Statement of Senator John Glenn 
Chairman, Senate Governmental Affairs Committee 
Hearing on 
S. J. Res. 282, "The Assassination Materials Disclosure·Act" 
May 12, 1992 
The bill before us today, S.J. Res. 282, is the 
"Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1992." The 
legislation was introduced by Senator David Boren and Senator 
Arlen Specter. An identical bill was introduced in the House of 
Representatives by our colleague, Representative Louis Stokes. 
The legislation would require the government to release 
records to the American public which are "relevant to the 
assassination of President John F. Kennedy.-" The bill would 
establish an independent review board.within 90 days of 
enactment, and this board would work as quickly as possible to 
release the records to the public through the National Archives 
and the Government Printing Office. 
The bill creates a strong presumption on releasing 
documents. The onus will be on those who would withhold 
documents to prove to the Review Board and the American people . why those documents must be shielded from public scrutiny"~--- ·-----·-··----·----- ·-------
It is also important to stress that the legislation does 
not authorize.any official investigation of the assassination. • 
Its only purpose is to create a process by which the American 
public may'be given the most complete access to review relevant 
records, and make their own observations and assessments. The 
Committee's work and the hearing today is likewise limited to 
this purpose. 
This bill is the result of a climate of suspicion and 
distrust that has grown over the years regarding the official 
explanation of the assassination of President Kennedy. It is a 
climate nurtured by many books, articles, television programs, 
and the recent movie "JFK." Disclosure of information is the 
only reliable way to maintain the public trust, and dispel 
distrust. Those of us who knew President Kennedy personally and 
remember where we were when we learned of President Kennedy's 
assassination must exercise our responsibility to the next 
generation of Americans, whose historical knowledge of the 
