' . 
.. 
~ . 
\ • SECRET 
4. The U.S. Information ~_g§9cy: 
A. Issued a detailed information policy guidance to all its 
Washington media divisions on March 28 setting forth the basic 
themes to be followed and types of materials to be developed 
in exposing CaGtro-Communist subversive activities in the 
hemisphere. This was followed on April 3 by a circular 
instruction (USIA CA-2819) to all USIS field posts in Latin 
America urging each to stimulate local press and radio atten-
tion to evidence of Cuban-based subversion and to report promptly 
local developments, official comment, and editorials, for cross­
play to other countriBs. 
B. Broadcast over vc·1.ce of America a total of 26 features and 
commentaries on the subject of Cuban-based subversion in its 
Spanish-language transmissions to Latin America during the three 
month period. This was in addition to regular reporting of 
developments on the subject in the Voice's hourly newscasts. 
Prominent attention was given to the Managua Ministers Meeting, 
the OAS reports of the Special Consultative Committee on Security 
and the Lavalle Corrm1ittee 7 the capture in Bolivia and Peru of 
Cuban-trained guerrillas, the discovery of a subversive plot in 
Ecuador, and ter:rorism antl counter-measures in Venezuela. Special 
features included editorial round-ups from the Latin American 
press on subversion, a dramatization of an incident in Ecuador, 
a chronology of subversive acts involving Cuban diplomats, and a 
history of subversion. In the usual Voice of America ·practice,, 
these features and commentaries were sent to USIS field posts in 
tflpe recordings e.fter short-wave broadcast for placement on the 
hundreds of local r.,Gdium-1-rave stations in the area. 
C. Transmitted by tsletypo through its press service a total 
of 33 articlos on Cu.'iJan-basc,d sub,ro:rsion during tho three-
month period to USIS posts throu8hout Latin America for placement 
in the local pr,.Jss ,. 'I'hsse i1'lcludod news stories, commentaries, 
and backg:counders en es2entially 'c,h0 same developments which were 
treated by the Voic8 cf P0rnTica. Th0 Agoncy 1s Information Officers 
in each country 1:Jsr:2 p1·0v-id2d with cop:l.0s of the OAS reports for 
use in thoh" pe,rsol'l.aJ contacts with p1·ess and radio personnel. 
A pamphlet ba80d on -tho letters from the Guatemalan ex-communist 
leader Carlos M0.nu0l P811ece!' to Castro and Khrushchev in which 
he revealed co;;;.:nunist sv.b·Te:·sivc -~actics was developed by the 
Agencyrs publica-cioas ccnt.0,~ in No:dco for reproduction and 
distribution thrc:-1.ghout the arcn." Work was completed also oh a 
cartocn book:) J'h_,::;_J;ls?i~P.2i1:-t£2.; tho story of two young Cubans who 
tour th0 corr.J)1un:L,rt, bloc e::::1cm1ntt1ring oppr0ssion and food shortages 
and retu:t·n hom3 tc fir:d the so.r:10 conditions developing in their 
own country. Trv::: ca: ·:ocT. bed~ in being distributed in over a 
million copies th:cough:xtt Latin America. 
NW 50955 Docld:32424015 Page 18 
