[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
1071f - 0 SECTION 1,. SEc\JnITY INFORl1J.l/T S MID CON> .TIA!, SOURCES . 
protect his security. Fellow members of the pertinent subversive 
organiz~.·tion may be aware of his unemployment ctatus a.nu. woule. expect 
h:i.m ·to apply. Where a state requires no·tifioa.tion of Bureau pa.ymen.ts 
to informants thid; would necessitate disolos1.n·e of their identity, 
then Bure:.u payments should be disoont:i.nncd during the period they 
receive unemployment compensation benefi·t;o., 
9. Handling money and property received by double agerits 
a. Double agen·ts must turn over to the }3ureau any money or property. 
received from their principals in connection with the double agent 
intelligence operation. This should be made clear to tho double 
agen·I; at the inception of the operation ( oonsicler obtaining a signed 
s·l:;atemcmt to this effect). Exceptions to this rule must be specifi­
cally approved by the Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements muut 
be made for payments to double agents for ser·'Tices render-eel to the 
Bureau. 
b. .Any tnoney or property received. by a double agent from his p_rincipa.1 
represents possible future evidence and the double agent should 
execute a statement clescri bing the money recei vea .. by type of currency,_ 
denomination, series of issue, and serial number a.nd appropriately 
describing any other property recei--red. T11is statement should be 
signed by the double agent's code name. 
c. !1oney or property received from double agents should be retained as 
.evidence in accordance with section 3, pa.rt II, Ma,nual of Rules ana. 
Regul2.tions. 
d. Bureau .A.gents receiving such money or proper·cy_ from double agents 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refresh­
ing recollection in the event testimony is later necessary. 
0. SlliIANNUAL L}~TTER 
A semian:1ual letter s~ould be submitted to the Bureau by each office as 
follows: 
1. List the symbol numbers of ali security informants and confidential 
sources being paid under[Bureau author.ity (not SAC authority))for 
services or expenses. If[the]confidential source has no symbol 
number, list his name. 
2. Also list the symbol numbers of all security informant:;(not paid 
under Bureau authority.) 
3. Set forth any comments concerning the present status of the informant 
coverage of the office, together with information concerning what actio~s 
are being. tc>,ken to improve the security informant coverage. 
4. As a separate section of the semiannual letter, list under uneadquart 
City" and each resident a_gency all subversive organizations broken do~.:,, 
into each division and unit thereof, such as- clubs, committees, and 
chapters. 
Under each unit the approximate membership, together with the symbol 
numbers and positions of security informants affording coverage, should 
be set out. Where no informant coverage exists or where coverage is 
provided by informants or sources who are not members, such factors shoulc. 
be shown relative to each unit. 
Semiannual letters may include any additional pertinent information re 
informant coverage that may be helpful in over-all evaluation, such as 
informants in other divisions who are occasionally utilized and highly 
placed informants who furnish area-wide, national, or international 
inform;i.tion. 
22 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1436. • _l:2-13-61 
I 
l" i 
~ I 
I 
l 
i I 
j 
! j 
I 
i 
I 
' i .\ 
: i 
I 
l 
! 
i 
i 
I i 
I 
l 
• I 
. I 
' I 
' 
