13-00000 
\' I, 
I, 
I 
NOTE FOR: 
FROM: 
OFFICE: 
DATE: 
SUBJECT: 
Marne: 
ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY 
From the Desk of R. Bruce Burke 
Associate Deputy General Counsel 
.----------------~ ---- --- ......._ 
~an,e Jensen-Kendrick ~ DA 
R. Bruce Burke 
OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL 
09/17/98 08:59:36 PM 
JFK Board Prepublication Review 
My comments in bold ( although my computer quit holding in paragraph 5). 
, Bruce 
ATTORNEY /CLIENT COMMUNICATIONS 
Ramona, 
The following represents a summary of where we currently stand regarding the issue of 
whether secrecy agreements were ever signed by the Assassination Records Review Board ("the 
Board"), and offers options to address that issue. Thus far, CIA security officials have conducted 
diligent searches, both internally and externally (FBI, White House), to locate any secrecy 
agreements that members of the Board may have signed. Those searches have been unsuccessful -
to date, no secrecy agreements have been found. We now intend to search selected Agency 
records systems to see if there exists any reference to, or indication of, particular secrecy 
agreements that the Board members may have signed. We also will attempt to locate any secrecy 
agreements the Board staff signed to see if that leads us to any secrecy agreements the members 
may have signed. At this point, however, the likelihood that these actions will bear fruit are not 
good. 
Our primary goal in this situation is to preserve our prepublication review rights with respect 
to future writings of the Board members, in order to prevent the inadvertent release of classified 
information (since it is unlikely that any member of the Board would knowingly reveal classified 
il"lfo!mation). /Before co-nsicfering the -options setforth below, it is worth notin-g that whatever -
approach we take with the Board, we may encounter some hostility and resistance due to the / 
Board's unhappiness with our position concerning the final state~ent of compliance that we.,> 
submitted to the Board. With that in mind, our options are: / • • 
---- \::_ -,- • - --. 
i. Do and say nothing, and hope that the Board members will voluntarily submit any future 
writings for prepublication review. 
2. Provide a generic security exit briefing for the Board which mentions their continuing 
obligation not to reveal classified informa,ion in any way, without specifically mentioning 
prepublication review, and again hope that they will voluntarily submit any future writings for 
prepublication review. 
/;:i'brovide a specific security exit briefing for the Board which expressly mentions that they 
have ~igation to submit for prepublication review any future writings they plan to publish 
(related to their work as Board members) as part of their obligation to protect classified information, 
ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY 
