87E 
[ 
NW 88321 
87. 
:""'.'\ 
SECURITY INVESTIGATIO. 
(6) A,:·•.-ise Bureau promptly by LH11 of subject's return from travel 
atroad. If such individual has traveled behind Iron Curtain, 
'also furnish Bureau recommendations as to interview and state 
whether additional investigation is contemplated. 
3. ?ile reviews 
Check office indices and review files thoroughly for pertinent infor­
~~tion showing background and subversive activity. Include information 
in initial report . .After each check and review of files has been made, 
consolidate reference cards pertaining to subject in indices. 
4. Secu?-ity informants . 
Information developed through security inforw~nts is unsurpassed in 
value both for intelligence purposes and as-admissible evidence. 
5. Physical surveillances 
Physical surveillances should be used when, in opinion of SAC, infor­
~~tion of sufficient value might be obtained to justify their use in 
light of existing circumstances and available manpower. 
a.. When information is received that meetings of subversive organiza­
tions ·are to take place, physical survetllances should. be considered 
to corroborate such information and identify participants. 
b. Surveillances of individuals in leadership or underground capacities 
serve to identify others within movement. 
c. Success of surveillances depends upon resourcefulness of .A.gents who 
must at all times exercise sound judgment and discretion. Be alert 
to observe activity of subject and countersurveillances which may 
be used to identify .A.gents and embarrass Bureau. 
6. Photographic surveillances 
Photographic evidence of meetings betv1een individuals or which shows sub­
jects entering or leaving meeting places of subversive organizations af­
fords convincing and admissible evidence to establish subversive activ­
ities. Prior Bureau authority is needed for photographic surveillances 
of meetings and they must be· properly correlated with other investi­
gative techniques to obtain maximum evidence. Conceal equipment to avoid 
detection by subjects or other individuals in proximity of surveillance. 
7. Public sources 
~Ake use of all logical public sources of information. Obtain background 
and lineage data from birth records and local bureaus of vital statistics~ 
credit agencies, state records, public utility records, and school records. 
Credit check of individual should be limited to ob~aining identifying 
information only (name, address, former address, employment, former 
employment). Obtain and index as reference material publ~cations of 
sub-..rersive organizations and records of state and Federal committees which 
nave conducted hearings concerning subversive activities.-
a.· ~ecords of private firms 
Where pertinent information is available in records of private firms, such 
as ·past or pre sent employers, insurance companies, and merchants, contact 
such firms provided it will not jeopardize inve:;:tigation. 
9. (a.] Channelizing of inforrr.ation to case files 
Membership or activity in subversive org~nizations should be chan­
nelized to main case files of individuals involved. Ytlmeographed form 
FD-3O6 may be used provided it is limited to reporting attendance at 
meetings. When information from informants or surveillances is chan­
nelized to individual case files, it must be documented. Coordinate 
information recieved from informants and confidential sources with 
active investigation. 
26 
l;I.-15-71 
( .. 
·.1 
l 
I 
i i 
.I 
I 
l 
! ' 
( I ! 
l • ! .. i 
! ' ! 
I I -, ; 
i 
I 
11 
~ 
' i I 
' 
( 
