13-00000 
5 
·r 
r, 
d 
d 
.-
e 
tf 
.e 
;o 
h 
ld 
r-
et 
lJ 
Is, 
IS, 
1-
es 
ns 
he 
If-
ny 
nd 
:3) 
i. 
i I 
t) 
I 
I 
·:~ 
\ 
SECRET ) 
rPERSONNEL HR 2{}-54b 
L. 
b. POLICY 
(1) Agents cannot claim rights and privileges normally grarited to U.S. 
Government employees; therefore, they will not be managed in accordance 
with normal personnel and administrative standards. 
(a) Initial approval of the Counter Intelligence Staff ts required before any 
commitments are made or any classifted information is disclosed to 
an agent. 
(b) Agents will receive compensation, benefits, and emoluments in amounts 
and a manner deemed best by the Operations Directorate to motivate 
and control them, subject to the following limitations: 
(1) No commitment may be made to an agent to provide gross com­
pensation (basic compensation, additional compensation, fees, etc.) 
at a rate which, if projected on an annual basts, would exceed the 
maximum rate for a GS-15, without prior approval of the Director. 
This limitation applies only to payments made by the Agency. It 
does. not apply to bona fide cover income. 
(2) No commitment may be made to an agent to provide special bene.; 
fits, without the prior approval of the Director of Personn~l. Spectal 
benefits are Agency obligations other than basic compensation, 
normal overseas cost of living payments, and travel or operational 
expenses. 
(3) No commitment may be made to an agent that appointed status 
will be offered at the conclusion of his service unless such com- • 
mitment has been recommended by the Deputy Director for 
Operations or his designee, with the concurrence of the Director of 
Security, and has been approved by the Director of Personnel. . 
(c) Engagement of agents will not be subject to Agency personnel celling 
controls. • 
(d) In general, agents will not be required to meet Agency medical stand- . 
ards. However, if an agreement with an agent obligates· the Agency 
to provide medical or disability benefits, a medical examination w1ll 
be carried out, unless precluded by security considerations. 
(e) Agents who are U.S. citizens, resident aliens, or foreign nationals 1n 
the United States, must pay Federal· tax on all income derived from 
their association with the Agency. Procedures for satisfying Federal 
tax liability will be determined by the Covert Tax Board. (See HR 
20-35.) 
(f) The use of retired civilian annuitants of the U.S, Government as agents 
will be governed by policy set forth in HR 20-13. 
(2) All commitments made or implied to agents will be recorded in either a 
Formal Agreement or a Memorandum of Oral Commitment. 
(a) A Formal Agreement is a written agreement, signed by the agent and 
an authorized 4gency representative. Formal Agreements will be nego-
tiated whenever operationally feasible. • • 
(b) A Memorandum of Oral Commitment ts a written record of ail agree­
ment, signed by an authorized Agency representative but not by the 
agent. Use of Memorandums of Oral Commitment will be limited to 
those cases when it ts in the Agency's best· interest not to solicit an 
agent's signature on a Formal Agreement. • 
(c) An agent will never be given a copy of the Formal Agreement or Memo­
randum of Oral Commitment. 
-+~vised: 23 February 1973 (733) 
SECRET 
E2 IMPDET 
CL By: 002230 
129 
i 
• I 
