C 
•. 
·( 
[ 
NW 
4. 
~, 
-SECTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS 
i 
87G 
(4) In all instances there must be clear showing, by overt acts or 
statements or other evidence, that there has been continuing 
sympathy for aims and objectives of Cuban Government since 
'10-1-60. Citizenship status must be clearly established. 
o. Pro-Cuban activity • 
All individuals in sec~rity i~dex under basic criteria (item 3a, 
above) should be tabbed "Pro-Cuban" if by th.eir activi ti•es and sym­
pathies they warrant special consideration in event of limited emer­
gency involving Cuba and U. s. This tabbing includes Cubans and non­
Cubans who have engaged in activities in support of Cuban Government 
or pro-Castro groups. For this tabbing, submit FD-122 to Bureau.with 
notation "Pro-Cuban" typed opposite words 'ir-iiscellaneous (specify). 11 
Attach page containing concise summary of facts supporting recommen­
dation. Security.in1ex aards sent to field. on such subjects contain 
letter "C" on Jeft side of card at beginning of seco~d line. Thise 
cards are not kept in "Cuban" special section but are tabbed with 
metal tabs. . 
d. Evaluating interviews for security index status • • 
(1) Positive statement to interviewing Agents clea~~y indicating ad­
herence to doctrines, aims, or purposes of revolutionary organ­
ization or front organization shall be considered overt act. 
'( 2) • Other than above, intervie\•rn are not 'factors in making de·termi.:.. 
nation as to security index; e.g., lack of cooperation or partial 
cooperation are not factors. • • 
e. Effect of resort to fifth amendment 
Department·has advised resort to fifth amendment by wit~eis appearing 
before govera~ental body should be considered overt act within security 
·index criteria (1) when subject was asked directly concerning present 
membership in subversive organization and (2) when ques·!;ion calls for 
response as to past membership in organization in those cases in ·which 
available information would seem to bring subject within criteria. ex- -
cept for overt act within requi~ed period. 
_f. Activity in Nation _of Islam and other black na.-1,;ionalist ~xtre"!JliS~ 
groups • 
Department has advised Nation of lslam constitutes potentially danger­
ous instrumentality in event of national emergency; statements and 
activities of individuals in Nation of Islam indicating anarchist and 
revolutionary beliefs should be considered iri making judgment as to 
whether or not. membar should ba in security index. Give particular 
~ttention to developing and reporting &uch statements, including vio­
lent and revolutionary statements made by other members in subject's 
·presence. Statements should be reported in detail. Apply ·l;hese in­
st!:'uctions to other black nationalist extremist groups. 
Recommendations for and preparation of security index cards 
a. SAC must personally recommend inclusion in anc removal of any name 
from s~curity index except in off_ices having more than 1,000 security 
index subjects, where recommendations can be made by SAC, ASAC, or 
Bureau-approved security supervisor. 
b. Where potential dangerousness of subject .has been established, office 
of origin is to[prepare]recommendation to Bureau on form FD-122; in 
triplicate. Forward original and copy to Bureau, and place copy in 
subject's file. Nothing should appear on FD-122 which is not in sub­
ject's file. FD-122 has[three]uses: (1) to recommend subject for 
security index, (2) to submit changes for existing cards,[and (3) to 
recommend subject be deleted from Security Index.]Submit abstract 
when recommending subject for security index but no abstract for 
cha.nges[on the security index card.] 
c. When FD-122 is submitted to recommend subje9t for security- index, attach 
additional page or pages setting out succinct summary of facts on which 
recommendation based. Facts must be in sufficient detail to support 
recommendation, including justification for designated priority level 
for apprehension. Statements of conclusion are not enough and original 
sources·must be characterized as to reliability. Summary must show 
pertinent data of subject's activities. 
Docld:32989529 1972 35 
·~ • I 
I 
l 
I -: 
i I 
I ! 
i 
-! 
I 
! . I 
-1 
I ! 
l • I 
! l 
I 
i 
i i ' ! 
I 
t I 
i 
I 
I ! ! 1 
I l 
'I 
! 
i ! 
I l I 
! 
I I 
' ! i 
' i • i I 
I • 
I I 
I 
I • i 
I 
I 
I 
