13-00000 
the-fact that many of the documents belong to agencies other 
than CIA. 
However, we've already taken steps to lift the 
sequestration, to coordinate with other agencies, and to begin 
the process of declassification. 
As I indicated earlier-in the week, if necessary, and 
in the absence of legislation, I will ask the House of 
----Rep-wsent-at-i-v-es---fo-r-a- -r-esoln-t·i·on-permi L Ling cr~o-reTeasn~- tlfo _____ _ 
results. of the declassification effort on the sequestered 
documents. And I hope that we can work together, Mr. Chairman, 
to remove any obstacles that might arise in releasing the 
sequestered documents. ... . .. . _ 
I also have indicated in my statement for the record 
that I assume there will be some materials that cannot be 
released, for a variety of reasons, including privacy concerns, 
or the exposure of intelligence sources and-methods. 
And let me agai-n--take ·a moment to give an example of 
this type of material. 
During tqe investigation by t~e House Select Committee 
on·Assassinations, I understand that.a number of security and 
personnel files of CIA employees were requested. These files 
contained fitness reports, or performance evaluations, medical 
evaluations, and credit checks on individual CIA officers. 
Although irrelevant·to the question of who killed 
President Kennedy, ·these and other personal documents ultimately 
ended up--!n the sequestered collection of documents. I do not 
believe that the benefit to the public of the disclosure of this 
information outweighs the clear. privacy interest of the 
individuals in keeping it confidential. 
Similar ·privacy concerns exist with documents 
containing derogatory information on particular individuals, 
where the information is based on gossip or rumor. _______ _ 
Our files also contain the names of individuals who 
provided us intelligence information on a promise of 
confidentiality, and we would not release their names in breach 
of such a promise. , 
Where we cannot disclosure such information to the 
public, the agency will make redactions and summa~ize the 
information in order to ensure that the maximum.amount of 
information is_released while still protecting the identity of 
an agent, or the privacy of an individual. 
As I told your Senate colleagues earlier in the week, 
if legislation is not passed by the CDngress and signed by the 
president regarding these papers, to enhance public confidence 
and to.provide reassurance that CIA has not held back 
information relative to the assassination, I would appoint a 
panel of distinguished Americans from outside of government, 
perhaps including former jurists, to examine whatever documents 
we have redacted or kept classified. 
And they would then issue an unclassified report on 
their findings. 
I believe that these actions attest to the seriousness 
of our intent to get these documents declassified and released, 
and to open what remains classified to outside nongovernmental 
review. • ' 
It is against this background that I cite our few 
technical reservations about the mechanism established by the 
joint resolution to achieve this result. 
