t, I 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
L. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
SAC 
1. 
2. 
3. 
• 
PART II 
• SECTION 6. J:lUBLIC_l\..TIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Included in the index may be individuals in Gover-nment, business, or 
industry. Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of informat~on. ~et up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. An index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having appToved office space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a locked, steel file cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in the field office. The cards shall pertain only to the 
territory covered; under such circumstances there shall be no duplicate 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete. 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not remove 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information index. 
Files 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparation of sources 
of information. 
Security and racial sources of information 
Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and racial 
sources of information. See section 107N,[3b,]volume TV, of the Manual of 
Instru·ctions for form to be followed. If the security or racial source of 
information is not being, paid qn Bureau authorization. and is being used 
regularly, the Agent handling the source of information must dictate a 
memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification as to 
stability and reliabi~ity as required by payment letters. 
Gifts to sources shall not be reclaimed as blue slip items •. 
CONTACTS 
SAC contacts are defined·as persons who, because of their positions, can 
and do render extraordinary s.ervice, or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assistance to the FBI upon the request of the SAC. 
A co_mplete file review must be made on each contact (file ·review on 
spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary unless special 
circumstances prevail). 
SAC contacts must be approved by the Bu~eau. Request this approval 
by letter to the Bureau captioned "---,,,-,-' SAC Contact. 11 Hark the 
letter for· the attention of the Crime Records Division. 
Use the following subheadings in the order given: 
a. Description of proposed SAC contact 
b.. Services this contact can provide 
a. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Derogatory information 
f. Recommendation of SAC· 
Submit an original and two copies,(but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication.] If the SAC contact is 
approved,[the single-page]copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to the field. If the contact is not approved, a[letter]is_ to be submitted 
to the field stating why the individual cannot be used as an SAC contact. 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not pro­
posing individuals who because of business connections or personal 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 925 
7 
2-29-60 
