SECRET 
against Cuban Embassy is being used by a newly created Chilean 
surveillance team in checking out purpose of travel projected 
and in following up on returnees from Cuba. The station 
has an agent in daily contact with leaders of the extreme 
militant left and is exploring the possibilities of sending 
three station assets to Cuba for training and intelligence 
missions. A Cuban First Secretary was declared persona non 
gra ta during April for µsing false .identity documents, and 
the Cuban charge d'affaires was subsequently recalled by his 
own government. Two new sources have recently been recruited 
by the station who are in a position to furnish valuable 
information concerning not only certain aspects of the situation 
within Cuba, but details concerning travel to and from Cuba 
by both legal and illegal means. The station is now in the 
process of debriefing an asset who recently returned to 
Santiago after spending one month in Cuba as a trainee. 
Efforts are being made to have other station assets included 
in future training programs. 
5. Colombia - Chief of Customs has indicated to station 
his willingness to institute an improved travel control 
system. Station believes it has identified a courier operating 
between :Colombia and Cuba and has mounted an operation to 
uncover his Colombian contacts. One station asset is now 
in Cuba attending guerrilla warfare training, another is 
being debriefed after his recent return from Cuba, and a 
third expects to depart soon for two months training in 
Cuba. The station is continuing to develop leads provided 
by one recent returnee, and thus far this investigation has 
involved members of both the Colombian Congress and the 
Bogota municipal government. A Colombian Civic Action 
Group, composed of influential local businessmen, which is 
subsidi2ed and directed by the station, has established an 
anti-Castro propaganda unit. This group is actively 
collecting evidence of Cuban subversion in Colombia to 
support its propaganda campaign. 
6,. Cos ta Rica - Local authorities appear to be inclined 
to cooperate in a program of harassing travellers to Cuba. 
A station asset in the Costa Rican Security Service has been 
confiscating the passports of persons returning from Cuba 
and has cooperated in other ways. One station asset is 
expected to travel to Cuba soon for training. The "Kennedy 
Groups, 11 which were organized at the time of the President's 
visit to Costa Rica, are being encouraged to collect 
information of all sorts concerning Cuban subversive activities, 
and to participate in propaganda activities aimed at Cuban 
subversion. Other station propt;iganda assets have kept up a 
SECRET 
NW .~0955 Docld.: 32424015 Page 12 
