I 
Uy ./11rh Arul,inwr, The confidc-u!ial no!csqw,:e 
. . Hoover :is instructing J,i·, 
",''~l l.:_es If Ii ate,! , . ~ubordi1wtc-s to get the nr,r1 
' '.: '1 t'-> 1 ( L \ "l 7 J , b..:l,out of the Justice Depa rtn:cnl 
Tile FB! withheld from the "before Bobby gets back." • 
Warren Commission hundreds Apparently, the FBI chief 
of documents about the also feared Deputy Attorney 
assassination· of President .• General Nicholas deB. Kat­
Kcnncdy. zcnbach might tamper with 
• These arc· raw r'BI files, . the report before forwarding it 
which the commission to the· Warren Commission. 
requested but never received, Hoover told his aides to alert 
They contain no startling President Johnson's major-
informalion that will overturn domo, Walter Jenkins. 
the commission's verdict, but "Let Jenkins know after 
thev reveal intimately how the report is out of our hands." 
FifI handled its most im- Hoover directed. "Let Jenkins 
portant case. know what Katzenbach is 
In the margins of some doing. Might cause long delay. 
Jl,lust not consider any suppressed memos, the late alteration." 
FBI chief, J. Edgar Hoover, Thirteen days after 
scribbled caustic comments in 
blue ink. He was critical of President Kennedy was gunned down in Dallas, 
almost everyone involved in Hoover delivered a detailed 
the investigation, from Dallas report to Katzenbach naming 
police chief Jesse Curry to Lee Harvey Oswald as the. 
. President Lyndon Johnson. assassin. Katzenbach kept it 
Confidential notes kept by four days before submitting it 
: one lop FBI official, for to the commission. 
example, quote Hoover as The crusty old G-man was 
warning: "JohnsOll may furious at the Dallas police 
become very dictatorial. We chief, meanwhile, for leaking 
.• inust keep our guard up." the story that the FBI had 
Sources familiar with the investigated. Oswald but had 
suppressed documents say the failed to alert the Secret 
contents were summarized Service. 
and submitted to the Warren "This is the lowest Jevef in 
Commission. But there were history of Bureau since r have 
~ome subtle, perhaps been director," Hoover 
deliberate. omissions. lamented, according to the 
The documents show that confidential notes. 
Hoover brought pressure on He contended that· Oswald 
his subordinates to rush out a had never been seen with 
preliminary report on the FBI firearms, had written no hate 
investigation before the letters against U.S. leaders. 
murdered President's As a former defector, he also 
brother, Robert F. Kennedy, knew he was a marked man 
rel urned to his desk as whom the FBI was watching. 
Attorney General. "With that background," 
mt 50955 Docld: 324·23630 Page 447 
l(Slayin~ 
• -
grumbled Hoover. ''ho\\' could 
he he sccurilv risk? No in­
dication or violence so far ;is 
our records show ... Oswald 
. could have hollered false 
arrest if we had arrested 
him." 
-The FBI chief commented 
I hat· Chief Justice Earl 
Warren. who headed the 
comm1ss1on, "would have 
been first one to holler" about 
Oswald's rights. Citing !he 
criticism of the FBI. Hoover 
commented: "This is one of 
the rough ones." 
He felt, therefore, that 
President Johnson should 
have endorsed the FBI report. 
"President should • have . 
backed up report," com­
plained ?::wver, "based on 
evide!".t..e gathered • by the 
FR;:." •• 
In private remarks that . 
Wt'!re never intended to be 
repeated outside his inner 
circle, he made deprecating 
remarks not only ahout . 
• President Johnson but about 
Sen. Barry Goldwater <R­
Ariz. ), who was then 
preparing to run against LBJ 
for the presidency. 
"Goldwater has no sound 
advisers around him," Hoover 
noted. But his comment on 
Johnson was more deadly: 
"LBJ's speeches are dull." 
The • Warren Commission 
adopted a resolution, 
meanwhile, calling for "the 
raw materials upon which any 
reports given to the com­
mission are based, together 
with all raw materials and 
rrports relating to Ille work oi 
the commission since the <bte 
of any and all earlier reports." 
J. Lee Rankin, the general 
counsel, foHowed up wilh a· .. 
''Dear Edgar" letter to. the ~ 
FBr chief requesting the· run • 
files "as promptly as .. 
possible." But they were '. 
never delivered. 
A • commission lawyer,· 
remembering those days ; 
more than a decade ago, . 
told us: "Nobody ever got the . 
FBI's own files." In 1963-64, , 
another staff member pointed 
out, the FBI "could do no • 
• wrong," so no one pressed too 
hard for their internal 
records. 
Now 12 -years after the • 
'Kennedy assassination, a . 
fascinating story is still locked , : 
in FBI files awaiting a public· j 
reopening. We will tell part of. 
the story in future columns. 
Sen. Richard Schweiktr IR- •. • 
Pa.,, chairman of the genate •. : 
intelligence subcommittee •. 
investigating . 'the ·•,-: 
assassination, is seeking the 
full story from the FBI. 
Footnote: FBI spokesmen 
stoutly defended the FBl's 
findings and lhe thoroughness 
of the investigation. They 
conceded that ''informative" 
and "deliberative" memos 
were not given to the com• 
mission. But "everything they· 
needed was given them. They 
had all they wanted to make 
their findings." 
(197J,Uniled F .. rure Syndlcare, Inc.I 
