14-00000 
~ 
CIA-12-JMWAVE-5 Files 
The DA conducted file searches in OS and HRM for records on Theodore Shackley, Ronald Cross, 
Bart Henry, Doug Gupton, David Morales. We were subsequently advised by HRP that the David Morales 
OS file was part of the collection so the OS searched for records on the first four names only. OS 
identified files on Shackley, Cross and Gupton which were reviewed by the ARRB staff. HRM identified 
files on Morales and Shackley which were provided to HRP. Neither office surfaced records on Bart 
Henry. (Attachment 4) 
CIA-16-Oswald Pre-assassination Files 
The Office of Security identified a multi-volume file and provided answers to questions posed by 
the ARRB staff. (Attachment 5). The OS file was reviewed and in April 1998 was released to the 
National Archives. NOTE: The attached 17 Februacy 1997 OS memorandum describes records holding 
related to H'ILINGUAL and states that the files were destroyed in April 1994. 
CIA-IR-03 HTLINGUAL File 
See CIA-16 above and Attachment 5 
CIA-IR-07 Claude Barnes Cap_ehart 
Capehart• s Office of Security file is in the sequestered collection. The DA JFK Focal Point 
provided input on the question of protecting Capehart' s relationship with global marine. (Attachment 6). 
In coordination with the DS&T, HRP responded to the ARRB staff. 
CIA-09 George Bush Computer Search 
The Offices of Security and Human Resource Management reviewed the files of George Herbert 
Walker Bush and found no documentation indicating that Mr. Bush had an affiliation with CIA during the 
1963 time period. Attachment 7 
CIA-IR-11 Warren Commission Critics 
The Offices of Security, Human Resource Management and Information Management were tasked 
with records searches on Edward Epstein, Josiah Thompson, Mark Lane, Harold Weisberg and Sylvia 
Meagher. No records were found on Lane and Thompson. Weisburg and Epstein security files were made 
available for ARRB staff review. An OS impersonal file was identified but had been destroyed in 1994. 
HRM found only an OSS service card on Weisberg which has been supplied to HRP. OIM identified a.file 
on Epstein. Several FOIA and PA files also were identified. Attachment 8. Contains the DA response and 
the final HRP response letter coordinated with the DA/IRO. 
CIA-IR-13 • Office/Person Dealing with Organized Crime & Cuba 
The Offices of Security, Human Resource Management and Finance & Logistics provided 
responses to this request. The Official Personnel File of Charles Ford was given to HRP, OS provided a 
description of the OS file contents and OFL provided travel and financial records. Attachment 9 
- SEtkbi 
... 
