' " 
, 
\ 
-' 
( 
( 
107S - U. 
8. In 'ltruct· e>?.ch i·o.te1·ested Bu.re2.u off:1.c-e which has made further dis-
9o 
10. 
11. 
12 0 
13. 
sereination of s~ch infor~ation to follow the instructions set forth 
aboveo 
A1sc set up a •,;ontrol file regarding this correcti-ve action, and upon 
cor:-.nletion of ::-,·.:·e submit to the .Bureau 2. final letter under the in­
for;iant I s caption identifying each cRse by title, character, Bureau file, 
where known, a.nd date of commt.nica.tion. 
This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau.files to see 
that necessary aorrectiTe actiofi has been taken in each inst&nce. 
If necess~ry, other field offices which have received infor~~tion from 
the informant should also be roquestec1 t; submit summary le•;,J.;ers show­
ing what corrections havu been made. 
It j s imperative that all information from the inform2.nt be correctly 
labeled and. great care mus·t be taken to s.ee that this is done. 
Occ:-.sionally, an ex-informant. through his speech, writings, or acticns 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
\nformant. It is not necessary to go back ~nd change the evaluation of 
the information attributed to that individual in the absen~e of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was an informant. 
14, Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the ;t1anual of Rules and Regulations. 
T, CLASSIFICATibN' - 1;34 
U. -CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1 , D-efini tion 
See page 3 of this se~tion. 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a. A symbol number· may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved. 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief· 
statement concerning type of information furnished. • 
c. The abbreviation "CS" may be used in intra-Bureau communications 
[ for confidential source;[e.g., 11Richard Roe, CS,"] Communications 
rela:ting to espionage and. fo:r:-eign nai;io·nality: matters should 'in 
addition have a character indicating the· country involved; e.g.~ 
IS - R for Russ·ia. • • 
d. When a permanent symbol has been assign~d to a confidential source, 
the abbreviation "CS" is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS NY-·ooo-s. • 
[ e. numbers as~igned to confidential sources are to be taken from the • 
[ series of numb .. ers used ;!:or your security, racial, and· criminal 
informa·nts. 
3. Index 
a. Index cards on form FD-348 like those prepared·f_or informant~ must 
be made up and tiled as an ad~un9t to the criminal_infprmant index, 
·racial" :i.nf_ormaht index; or the.' security informant in.dex, "de pen.ding· o·n 
the 'ty.pe of inform&,tion furnished. • • 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the syrnboJ index on inform-
ants. . •. 
c. Duplicate confi.dential source c.ards may be maintained with thee • • 
criminal informant inde·x, ·racial informant index, 'and the security· 
informant inde~ if the source.furnishes information ot value in these 
types of investigations. 
4. Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to an individual who 
has potential as a security confidential source, a 134 classification 
file should be opene~ and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to develop the individual. are discon~inued. Files may be opened 
on confidential sources in criminal matters in a manner identical vdth 
~hat for handling criminal informant files in the discretion of the 
SAC. 
27 
7-1,4-64 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1619 
