13-00000 . 
- 5 -
10. As to Cuba, he stated his dissatisfaction with our 
present policies and actions connected therewith and said that 
shortly after his return to Washington, and probably after the 
State of the Union message, he wanted a comprehensive review 
of the Cuban situation and our policies and he wanted the most 
imaginative and forward thinking people put to work on seeing 
what else could be done. He did not feel the sabotage efforts 
would ever really result in any ultimate goal~ for U. S. interests 
but was prepared to accept some of them if they promote internal 
dissidents and assisted the morale of the people we were working 
with in Cuba-. He stated he was not at all satisfied with the 
Governmental actions taken thus far to curtail free world trade 
with Cuba. He said he had told Erhard that he could not tolerate 
West German trade with Cuba and that Erhard had assured him 
that while it was very small, he would put a complete stop to it 
as soon as he returned to Germany. The President directed that 
thorough preparation be made so that when Pearson visits the 
United States, Mr. Johnson can take him on in the same manner 
and similar preparations should be made for other free world 
countries doing appreciable business with Castro. 
11. There was then a discussion with Staats and Murphy 
about .some sort of pork barrel program which was to be canceled 
and which .Hubert Humphrey and El vis Stahr had taken violent 
exception to .. Apparently the President had received a vitriolic 
letter from Elvis Stahr about this matter because he commented 
that he now understood why Stahr had made such an inadequate 
Secretary of the Army. The lines of action directed by the 
President as to preparation of responses was not a matter for CIA. 
12. There was then a discussion as to some sort of adjust­
ment in tax procedures which, by reducing a figure from 15 to 14, 
would save some $800 million this year. Neither Mike Forrestal 
nor I heard this loud and clear but I think it had to do with adjusting 
withholding tax deductions. In any event, no decision was reached 
by the Presid.ent and the conversation was directly with Staats and 
not for the rest of the group. 
