H. 
• 
SECTION 107.ECURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFID.IAL SOURCES. 107H-I 
SYMBOLS 
1. Assigning numbers 
a. All informants should be designated by permanent symbol number of 
which Bureau must be advised. Once number assigned, it must not be 
subsequently reassigned to any other informant or source. 
b. A symbol number designation should be afforded to all individuals 
from the time any step (generally the opening of an informant or 
source file).is taken to develop them as sources or informants. 
[Upon assigning a symbol number, Bureau should be immediately advised by 
secure teletype of the symbol number, informant's true name, available 
background information, and cover name, if assigned, for indexing purposes.] 
c. Individuals to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be advised 
of such symbols. 
d. Cover name should be used by informant in signing his statements and 
in communications between informant and field office. Advise Bureau 
of cover name. 
e. Prefix of symbol number consists of appropriate field office teletype 
abbreviation. Suffix of symbol number will consist of letter "S" for 
security informant; letters "PSin for potential security informant; 
letters 11CS11 for confidential source. 
f. Although source may subsequently furnish information requiring change 
in designation (e.g., from security to criminal or to extremist, etc.), 
number previously assigned will remain same; however, suffix is to 
be changed to appropriate letter or letters indicating this change 
(NY 000-S to NY .000-C or to NY 000-E). 
go An asterisk should not be used to designate certain highly sensitive 
informants or investigative techniqueso Do not include asterisk 
in reporting information from such sources. 
2. Communications - use of symbols 
a. After Bureau is advised of permanent symbol, in subsequent communica­
tions true name of informant should not be set forth; use symbol number. 
b. In all communications after initial[one,]Bureau and field office 
file numbers for informant must be set forth. 
c. In communications between offices, follow same procedure. 
d. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis should be referred to in initial secure teletype 
to interested office by true name and symbol number if necessary 
for other division to know identity. Such a teletype should 
not be routed to a Resident Agency. Office receiving such 
teletype should make appropriate index cards for ninformant·s 
and Sources in Other Divisions II index. Subsequent letters 
between interested offices may then identify individual by symbol 
number only. 
(2) Individuals who leave division where they have been furnishing 
information and do not plan to return should be immediately 
discontinued, their symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name used in all administrative correspondence. 
(3) If informant is transferred to another office and remains active, 
his identity must still be protected. 
e. In communications concerning potential security informant when a 
symbol number is not used, name of potential security informant 
and abbreviation 11PSI 11 shall be used; e.g., ".John Doe, PSI." 
f. Captions of communications concerning informants and sources should 
contain a precise character designation to identify the organization 
with which they are most closely associated or on which they are 
INDEXING 
most capable of furnishing information (i.e., Security Matter -
Stud~nts for a Democratic Society or SM - SDS, Se·curity Matter -
Young Socialist Alliance or SM - YSA, Security M!.tter - Communist 
or SM - C, etc.). In espionage and foreign nationality matters, 
caption of communication should also show character and country 
designation (i.e., IS - R for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.}. 
This -facilitates routing at Bureau. 
True names and aliases of all informants, as well as cover name assigned, shall 
be indexed in general office indices as any other name. Index cards should 
show file number of informant, but such terms as "Informant" or "Potential 
11 
8-13-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1749 
