' . . . 
'J\iz,is pol icy has beeJt, deueJ"oped. over years of e.xperience . . !./e 
,are faced. witli the pro bl em o./ having l it~ral ly hunclrecls of representat, i ves: 
of friendly forei!/n nations assigned to official and diplomatic establ ishi; 
ments: in the U. S. and qccredited to· our· Government in connection with ( 
their official duties. The problem of discharging our,;,,responsibil ity 
for the·. internal security of the country and warding off the menace which 
could be created. by a security threat issuing from any. one of these 
foreign government officials necessitates· the devising,:;and fol)owing ·of 
some procedures ·wlJ,ich will place us in a positio,n to. acquire information 
•. regarding activities on the part of_ any such official which might be 
detr·i,nental to this country's securityo . 
. ·The 1934 case involving _JQ$eph Sidney Petersen, Jr., which 
resulted in compromising communications intelligence material with 
]lffJtherlands officials~ vividly bro_ught _to our attention the question 
whether we should maintain investigative coverage of the activities of 
al 1 representatives of friendly foreign governments in the U. S. • A 
careful study of the problem. at th~~ time 1 eft us with the conclusion 
that in order to establish such ,coverage as would effectively reveal an 
operation such as that occurring in· the Petersen case, it would be 
necessary to maintain both technical ·and physical. surveillances on 
diplpmatic officials and o.fficial .... establ ishments in the ll. s. of all 
friendly foreign countries. Ifoting that our intensifi-ed coverage of 
Soviets· and sat el 1 ites al one required over 6JO .,_4gents at that time, 
it was concluded that manpower eipenditure would seem to negate 
.following a similar program with.regard to non-Soviet bloc officials and 
establishments. (65-63113-1) 1 
Taking a more realistic approach, we immediately (l!ovember, 
1954) did two things: (1) Alerted· 12 key field of.fices to the problem 
1 
and issued ·instructions designed to help cope with it. /2) Informed 
si.x other agencies of our Government o.f our responsibilities in this 
field and asked them to notify us of the arrivals in the lf• S. of all 
foreign iritel l igence of.tip ials, even though their presence in th is 
country might be under working arrangements with one of the si.x ag··encies 
involved~· (65-63113-1 through.-.5) . • 
Since-November, 1954, v;e have coordinated into captioned· 
program two positive cowiterintell igence procedures which have been in . 
use for many years: (1) Technical surveillance coverage in· the U. s. ~-(., 
offi.cial ·establishments of ,ir{endly foreign countries· located in "t~~?~::/,'· 
areas. (65-6]113-40) (2) Developr:ient of 1 ive sources i-n such· e·s-taoJ ,'.,_,.;.-
men.ts. (65-63113-89) 
:> ...J. 
'ij 
.i1' ., 
