14-00000 
OE!CR:E'f 
(U)· We continue to identify other collections of documents 
that properly belong within the JFK collection. These 
include: The Oswald Security File; Agency working files 
generated by JFK assassination investigations and requests; 
and CIA documents found by other agencies and Presidential 
Libraries and referred to CIA for review under the JFK Act. 
II. The Time Frame of JFK Assassination Records. 
(U) In general, the time frame of JFK records commences 
whe.n Oswald arrived at the US air base (the U-2) at Atsugi, 
Japan, in December 1957 and continues through the end of the 
Garrison investigation in 1968. Note, however, for 
information which is clearly related to the story of the JFK 
assassination or its investigations, there is no time frame 
limitation. Any document or request that deals with the 
assassination, Lee Harvey Oswald, or the various conspiracy 
theories should be referred to the HRG/JFK review project. 
III. Key Topics, Etc. 
(U) Certain individuals, organizations, places, 
projects, and subjects are central to the Oswald/JFK story 
and the ensuing investigations, which causes a number of 
documents with no mention of Oswald or the assassination to 
fall within the purview of the JFK Act. Clearly, it is not 
possible-to list every category of document which may have 
been reviewed and released under the JFK Assassination 
Records Act. The following categories contain examples of 
information that are considered to be within the JFK 
review. 
(U) A. JFK Assassination Investigations: 
Warren Commission, 1963-64 
James Garrison, New Orleans DA, 1966-68 
Rockefeller Commission,* 1975; 
Church ~ommittee (Senate),* 1975-76 
House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA), 
1976-79 
* JFK Assassination, anti-Castro plots and CIA anti­
Cuban operations only. 
B. Key subjects 
(S) Moscow Station, Mexico City Station, JMWAVE Station, 
and CIA stations in those cities through· which 
Oswald passed on his way to and from the Soviet 
Union, as they related to Oswald's activities or to 
possible conspiracies. 
S~CRET 
