13-00000 
-4-
covered other topics. Finally, an officlaJ said: u1 don't see why It can't be released. This 
Is an issue -for COMMO [COMMO is the Communications Office.] Someone ask 
COM MO whether it cares.• COM MO was subsequenUy asked - and It had no objection 
to the release. I now Infer that protecting crypts In slug llnes was an Ingrained agency 
habit rather than a considered judgment. The d~losure came only after Incessant 
questioning by a skeptical interlocutor. • 
• Illustration 2. During the course of our review of records from the Secret Service, 
the Board Identified for the Secret Service a record It intended to open in full and the· 
agency objected. The Board then advised that a copy of the record had actually been 
published in full in 1964 as an exhibit to the Warren Commission Report. The agency 
continued to object, arguing that even a -subsequent release of an open document 
would again disclose matters that should be kept secret. The Board subsequently 
voted to open the record. • 
Illustration 3. In several FBI documents that were subject to appeal to the 
President, the FBI argued that certain types of Its electronic surveillance had not 
previously been disclosed. In our opposing memoranda, we showed that Director J. 
Edgar Hoover, In open testimony to Congress, had effectively disclosed the existence 
of the electronic surveillance. Those records are now open. 
Illustration 4. See Exhibit B. The Review Board was presented wit~ ~-t,~avily .. 
redacted but provocative document-pertaining to·an-FBt-intemal Security" Inquiry into 
Lee Harvey Oswald in October 1960. The FBI declined to release the Information, 
arguing that it contained the equities of a foreign government and that the government 
had refused to release the lnfonnatlon. The Review Board, with the assistance of the . . 
Department of State, thereupon approached the Swiss Govemmel)t and requested that_ 
it consent to the release of information about the assistance that the Swiss Federal • • 
Police provided to the fBI to. track down Oswald. The Swiss govemment agreed and 
the record Is now open in full. 
Illustration 5. See Exhibit C. The Review Board located several Top Secret 
documents related to military contingency planning for a coup in Cuba. ExhibH C 
contains one page from a 58-page document from this group that had been "excluded 
from automatic downgrading and declassification: The Review Board staff arranged 
for a group of declasslflers from several military and other national-security entitles to 
meet at the Review Board offices In a joint-declassification session. The 58 pages of 
this document, and many other records from this group, have gone from being 
completely closed to completely open. 
Illustration 6. See Exhibit D. In May 1963, Secretary of Defense Robert 
McNamara met with military advisers In the eighth of a series of conferences on 
Vietnam. Exhibit D includes all of the material that had been publicly released on the 
conference prior to Review Board action (a 6-page summary published in Foreign 
