13-00000 
-SECREf 
.1 
8. If the rationale of the HSCA for pursuing the question of 
Nosenko's treatment is contrived. and largely peripheral to the real 
purpose of the Committee. as we believe it to be. it should be faced 
in those terms. No one would disagree with there being relevant 
inquiries. but it fs hardly proper to take an internal critique and turn. 
it against the Agency on a point irrelevant. to the central purpose of the 
inquiry. The HSCA staff position is tendentious. and reflects on its 
face a hostile attitude that the Committee may not otherwis.e want to be 
so obvious .. The Committee has the right to determine what is relevant 
to its charter. but the Agency should also assert a .similar right to ,defend 
itself from truly peripheral and hostile fishing expeditions. • 
9. Therefore. while we believe that the· Hart Report should be made 
available to the HSCA sta'ff. we do not believe that such action should be 
taken prior to attempting to limit the use made of information contained 
in the Report not related to the issue of Nosenko's bona fides. 
III 
10. There are aspects of the Hart Report that contain information on 
foreign liaison services that should not be exposed to the HSCA. There is. 
therefore. a question of some sanitization to be conducted prior to the 
Report's being made available. • 
11. A version of the Report has been prepared for the FBI in which the 
names of employees below the DCI have been removed, as well as certain 
modifications in more dramatic rhetorical phrases~ That version is in 
other respects faithful to the original Report. It provides a·working basis 
for further sanitization. Sanitization prior to review is not foreign to the 
HSCA. as the Directorate of Operations has had a continuing policy of 
selected sanitization. Extending this practice to the Hart Report ,vould 
be consistent with the extant working relationship with HSCA. The Report 
will remain classified. 
12. If the paper is made available. classified and sanitized. it should be 
on a highly restricted basis; the HSCA wants six named persons to have 
access to it. which is at least three times the number needed for bona fide 
research purposes. 
13. Staff Position: This paper favors making a sanitized version of the 
paper. in classified form. available to a limited number of the HSCA staff 
representatives at the CIA Headquarters Building at Langley. Any such 
release should be preceded by appropriate discussions limiting use of the 
material by the Committee. The General Counsel is of the opinion (Tab B) 
3 
