6.J. PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, MTD PUBLIC C01'TTACTS 
2. Requesting authority for release 
a, By teletype 
At least four hours before the time of release, developments in the 
case, an outline of the release, and statement releas·e will be made 
U.A.CB are to be furnished- the Bureau, 
b. By telephone where time is of essence 
Confer with division head having supervision of the matter for 
investigative -clearance and with the office of the division h·ead of 
the Crime Records Division for final press clearance. While good 
judgment mus,t prevail, in important cases in which a local newspaper 
deadline is approaching; it may be advisable to telephone ·the Bureau 
for clearance. • 
3. Press releases are to be made personally only by the S.A.C or in his absence 
by the .AS.AC-. 
4. Releases are to be made both at headquarters and the local area affected 
by developmenys._ All material prepared for the public must be.reviewed 
word for word. It is not to c9ntain words or phrases which might be 
regarded as objectionable or offensive to a member of any race, creed, or 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized wherever 
possible, and all press r-eleases should be coordinated to eliminate any 
avoidable delays. • • 
5. In the absence of an overriding consideration bearing on the public interest, 
no statement should be put in an announcement to the press to the effect· 
that a subject either has confessed or has admitted his crimes without 
specific Bureau approval. In case of doubt, consuit the Bureau, When 
the fact that a su-bject has given a· confession is included in a complaint 
and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press, a "no comment" _reply should 
be given. The complaint is a court record and must be left to speak for 
itself. • 
6, On-the-spot announcements by SAC are authorized in emergency situations 
in which good judgment so dictates. Emergency on-the-sp~t-·statements by 
Agents limited_to their official identity and, if. known~ the identity of 
fugitive or criminal in gun battle. If badly wanted fugitive apprehended 
in remote area and SAC abs·ent, Agent may, in rare emergency only and where 
time of essence, furnish bare details. Contact by SAC with press should 
be effected immediately where press desires further details. 
[ 7. In the normal process of issuing press releases,[either local or national, 
[ SACs may, when requested, make personal appearances for television and radio, 
[ provided no interviews are conducted and there is absolutely no elaboration 
[ over and above the original ·press release. These condition's should be made 
[ known in advance to television and radio station representatives when such 
[ requests are received,] • • 
8, In the absence of special circumstances, Bureau Agents should never suggest 
or request a reporter or another representative of.a newspaper or similar 
publication to withhold the publication of news, In the event that special 
circumstances do exist, it will be necessary to clear with the Bureau prior 
to making any such request. 
9. In cases involving bombings having an apparent racial or religious basis 
witb the resultant public interest, the SAC should issue a statement-to 
the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to 
actively assist local investigative authorities, making availa:ble to them 
every possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the Bureau's full 
laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by handling 
out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts that· 
may indicate any Federal violation . .At no time should this statement 
indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility for. 
the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance of this state­
me~t requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
10. Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press 
release file if exists. 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 91!8 
la 
12-27-65 
~' 
,t 
' • '-t-' 
r 
t ' 
