-rt 
SECRt I <'."'\ 
·-.. ~~~./ 
11 4. Could Source obtain employment on a 
Congressional Committee on either side of the 
Hill which would give him access to the ar~as 
of interest? 
"Source has exceptional connections on the 
Hill and it is believed that through these con­
nections he might obtain some type of assign-
ment on a temporary basis or perhaps on a regular 
basis. However, in the opinion of the SRS staff 
this is exceptionally hazardous and if it became 
known through some misfortune, it would be of 
enormous embarrassment to Agency officials. In 
addition, Source might well obtain employment 
with the Congressional Committee, but his work 
might be too limiting to permit him to move about 
and it might well preclude any opportunity he had 
of making contact with the local press. Further­
more, most Committee assignments, investigative or 
otherwise, generally follow a 9 to 5 routine on 
the Hill and free lancing and freedom of movement 
are not easily obtained in Congressional Committees. 
It is regarded as impossible to place Source on a 
Congressional Committee if the employing Senator 
or CnngrPssman was to bP JnfarrnPa even Jn a mo~T 
nominal way of Source's mission. 
"S. Can the basic plan be telescoped on a 
shorter basis? 
"This is considered questionable by those 
who have worked in this area for some time. If 
we shorten the approach, we would obviously cut 
down on our Source's background and prestige, 
particularly in an area where stature is neces­
sary. The articles using Source's by-line, if 
they are successful, would be very important and 
would serve as a basis for everything that would 
follow. The South American trip is needed and 
Source would have at the present time the best 
possible chance for success based on his Cuban 
contacts which are very strong at the present 
time. A possibility also exists on such a trip 
that Source might .he fortunate enough to achieve 
an important newspaper scoop which, of course, 
would build prestige and quite conceivably place 
FROM -85-
.) SEP ~O 1975. 
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 73 
