,, 
3 November 1960 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJZCT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 3 November 1960 
PRESENT: Messrs. Merchant, :-1ouglas, Gray, Gen. Cabell, 
Gen. Lansdale 
.I 
1. Cuba 
Mr. Gray inquired once more as to the status of planning for 
problems which would arise post-Castro. Mr. Merchant ·said he 
would check into the progress of the Seate Department group which 
has been ch~rged with developb.g recommendations on this matter. 
From this the Group launched into a far-ranging discussior. of 
the entire concept oi U.S. efforts against Castro. Mr. Douglas, 
supported by Mr. Gray and Mr. Merchant, expounded Ge idea faat 
perhaps things have now progressed to a point where covert activities 
of the type originally envisaged fo::.- CIA to undertake will not be effective. 
Mr. Douglas referred to the extensive program of the militia, Mr. Gr.:1y 
cited the matter of arms from the Soviet bloc, and Mr. Merchant dwelt 
on the increasing effectiveness of Castro's measures to control foe 
populatio:i. in ways which the Communists have developed so weil. The 
latter said that he and others in the State Department had originally 
thought that a popular rebellion would develop within Cuba and that 
this could be augmented by the corn.para tively small- s calc efforts of 
exiles under CIA control. Now the same people are begi.n.ni.ng to feel 
more and more th.at despite tl1e numerous defections and the economic 
deprivations being experienced by tne middle _and upper classes, time 
is actually working on Castro's side. Mr. Merchant said that he 
foresaw that there wot:ld occur a point in time beyond which covert 
intervention would not do the job. C ~-• .-·. ,_, 
Mr.· Gray expressed the opinion that we will never be able to 
11 clean up 11 the situation without the u"se of overt U.S. military force. 
He suggested the possibility of using the CIA-backed exiles to mount a 
simulated attack on Guantanamo in order to offer an excuse for overt 
PROPERTY r;: r:.•-·! 
HE WHITE HOU:::C: : , . .. \ \ 
L. ~ •d :.J 
- ~ ·-
NW 50955 DocId.:324.23488 Page 31 
