Memorandum J. J. Casper to Mr. Mohr 
Re: Attorney General's Staff Conference 
Wednesday, April 8, 1970, 5 :00 p. m. 
Assistant Attorney General Leo M. Pellerzi, Administrative Division, 
• referred to the FBI exhibits and in particular Exhibit No. 25 and questioned 
Mr. Hoover as to why the State of Virginia had such a high number of Laboratory 
examinations. Mr. Hoover explained that Virginia had no Laboratory and that 
that was the reason for the high usage of the FBI Laboratory. Mr. Hoover took 
this opportunity to explain th€ FBI' s policy in not making our experts available 
when local experts have already examined the evidence or are going to testify as to 
;the evidence. He also explained there are many "phonies" who are traveling about 
the country conducting examinations and testifying but \Ve, in these cases, have 
briefed the prosecuting attorneys in advance. The Director explained that in such 
places as New York State where they have their own Laboratories they only use 
, our Lab for the more sophisticated examinations. 
_ Deputy Attorney General Kleindienst then questioned the Director as 
to the basic qualifications for the position of Special Agent. The Director explained 
that they all had to be either lawyers or accountants or college graduates majoring 
in science or language. The Director emphasized again that we have no discrimina­
tion and that we have many fine Negro Agents in the FBI, pointing ~ut that only last 
week he gave a meritorious award to a Negro Agent from our Detroit Office who had 
developed valuable informants in the Black Panthers and related organizations in 
that area. Kleindienst then asked the Director approximately how many applicants 
we turn down for each Agent that we accept. The Director explained that for every 
100 applicants 90 of them are turned down. He said that we carefully interview 
these men, investigate them, test them, and give them thorough physical examina­
tions to make sure they meet our high standards. The Director told the conference 
that he h~s a standing rule that if any-Agent in Charge recommends an Agent or 
clerk who is a hippie type; that is, long hair, sideburns, etc. , this Agent in Charge 
is going to lose his office, and we are going to get rid of the applicant. He said he 
wo~ld not tolerate any hippie types in the FBI and do not want our Agents going into 
Federal court looking like hippies. 
"" 
The Director pointed• out that many of our young clerical employees 
are going on to school to become Agents, and he demands the same discipline of 
these young people. He also pointed out that some 6,000 people a day tour our 
facilities and \Ve don't want them getting the idea the FBI has any hippie types. 
t,. 
As a n1atter of fact, the Director said with a smile that he would like to declare 
open season on these hippies just like you have open season on the deer and shoot 
then1. 
( CONTINUED - OVER) 
- 3 -
-------------------------- -- - - ----- ----===-
•• .J.._: 
