6A PART II 
SECTION 60 PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
11 (i) The def endantt s name, age, residence, employment, marital status, c· 
and similar background information. 
11 (ii) The substance or text of the charge, such as a complaint, 
indictment, or informationo 
"(iii) The identity of the investigating and/or arresting agency and 
the length or scope of an investigation~ 
n Ci v) The circumstances immediately surrounding an arrest, including. 
the time and place of arrest, resistance, pursuit, possession and use 
of weapons, and a descript~on of physical items seized at the time of 
arrest .. 
ttDisclosures should include only ineontrovertible, factual matters, and 
should not include subjective observations. In addition, where back­
ground information or information relating to the circumstances of an 
arrest or investigation would be highly prejudicial or where the release 
thereof would serve no law· enforcement function, such information should 
not be made public. 
11 (4) Personnel of the Department shall not volunteer for publication . 
any information concerning a defendant's prior criminal record, but.infor­
mation drawn from Federal conviction records may be made available in 
response to a specific request. 
"(5) Because of the particular danger of prejudice resulting from 
. statements ~n the period approaching and during trial, they ought 
strenuoµsly to be avoided during that periodo Any such statement or 
release shall be made only on the infrequent· occasion when circumstances 
absolutely demand a disclosure of information and shall include only 
information which is clearly not.prejudicial. 
"(6) The release of certain types of information generally tends to 
create dangers of prejudice without serving a significant law enforce­
ment function. Therefore, personnel of the Department should refrain 
from making available the following: (/ 
t1(i) Observations about a defendant's character. \_ 
1i(ii) Statements, admissions, confessions, or alibis attributable to a 
defendant, or the refusal or failure of the accused to make a statemento 
"(iii) Reference to investigative procedures such as fingerprints, 
polygraph examinations, ballistic tests, or laboratory tests, or to tµe 
refusal by the defendant to submit to such tests or examinationso 
"(iv) Statements concerning the identity, testimony, or credibility of 
pro spec ti ve witnesses.. . . 
"(v) Statements concerning evidence or argument in the case, whether 
or not it is anticipated that such evidence or argument will be used • 
at trial. . 
!'(vi) Any opinion a·s to the accused's guilt, or the possibility of a 
plea of guilty to the offense charged, or the possibility of a plea 
to a lesser offense. 
"(7) Personnel of the Department of Justice should take no action to 
encourage or assist news media in photographing or televising a defend­
ant or accused person being held or transported in Federal custody. 
Departmental representatives should not make available photographs of a 
defendant unless a law enforcement funct1on is served thereby. 
la 
2-27-74 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1083 
