87D 
(6) 
..• '\ .. , 
/ 
SEG'.r .• 870 SJi!CURI'.rY IH.VI!3TIGATION$. 
(b) Data to appear on separate attaohe~ card 
I. The following data must be placed on a separ~tc 
card to be attached to reverse side of the sec~rity 
imlex card being filed in the geotfl·?..phioal, special, 
or G.!lavailabJ.e sections o Data wilJ. not be attached to 
the security index card filed in the alphabetical 
section~ These cards contain printdd captions to 
a.::;sist in recording the descrip·i;ive ini'ormationo 
C~ptions are not all-inclusive and should be trngmented 
by other data required. 
(.A.) Complete description . 
{B) Notation that secm·:ity index :cl&sh notice J:ia.s been 
submitted for posting in Identification Division 
{C) Photograph, with da.'Le ·ta.ken placed 'below 
(D) Dangerous characteristics of subject, in?luding 
notation if subject pos::rnsses firearms • 
(E) Other data wli:ich will assist in effectini:. appre­
hension of subject~ such as directipns to residenqe 
or employment, where subject not situate,l • in 'usua.J. 
locations, listing of number of miuor ch:i.ldren 
and aged depenclent:. 
II. If descriptive data have not been obtained·, c.<J.sc must 
be kept pending and investigation conducted to develop 
this informa:l;iono Upon posting of security index flash 
notices in security index cases, th.e field will be 
furnished the FBI m.u:nber and- fingerprint classification 
which should be affixed to -reverse side of the security 
index cards filed. in geographical, special· and unavail­
able section:.. 
III. Form FD-186 is used for purpose of compiiing inforr.riation 
to be posted on the separate card a.ttach8d to back of 
the security index card filed in the geographical section 
·of index~ Form may be f:ilJ.ecl in by the Agent handling 
the case in legible handwriting and forwarded to clerical 
employee designated to post this information on the 
attachment to the geographical, special or unav:dlable 
section~ .. A..fter the secur-ity index card has been pre-
• pared a·t Bureau and sent to fielcl and information appear­
ing on FD-186 has been posted on the card to be attached, 
it ;;hall be fi_lecl in __ the inves'tigath·e case file. 
. . 
FD-186 piay also be used to record information ~:·,at a 
security index subject has ·bee~ physically ob:- ·veq. 0 • 
Descriptive data developed during observation~: the 
subject should be noted on FD-186 for posting • 
.Arrangement of the s ecur:i ty index· 
(a} .At Bureau 
The entire security index is maintained at the Bureau 
through the utilization of IBN tabulating cards. The 
.*hit~ 5- by 8-inch securjty indix cards ar~ ·printed by this 
·machine and transmitted to.the field. Tlirougt the use 
of thfs device, the security index can be broken down 
into the various catego:cies of information appearing on 
the s.ec~ij;y index cards when _such breakdowns become necessary 
for administrative purposes at the Bureau. This procedure 
• :makes it possible to main:tain the content of the security 
index in the field and at the Bureau in an identical co::i­
dition at all times. 
An alphabetical breakdown of the true names and all aliases 
of security index subjects is also maintained at the Bureau 
for administrative purposes. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page GSQ 50 
