----- .. 
' • 
-·~ ------
- -------~---- ----­
~---- --
M. A. Jones to Bishop 
RE: LUNCHEON WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL 
connection with this article. He also has used the information disclosed 
from our mic·rophones in court cases in such cases. as the Raymond 
Patriarca matter, etc. 
DEPARTMENT TASK FORCE, BUFFALO, NEW YORK: 
. In October, 1966, under the direction of the Organized Crime· 
and Racketeering Section of the Department, a "task force" was organized 
as an investigative operation, supervised by Department Attorneys, and to 
which were assigned representatives from various Federal i_nvestigative 
agencies. 
On August 21 and 23, 1967, the "task force" conducted 
investigative activity, including physical surveillances in the Niagara Falls, 
New York, area. The subject of its investigation was one Ernest Reinhart, 
a bookmaker fro1n Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada, who was said to be 
making trips daily to Niagara Falls, New Yo·rk, to establish regular contacts 
and gambling pickups from other known gamblers. The Niagara Falls, New 
York, Police Department, which was also investigating the activities of 
Reinhart, had requested the assistance of the United States Custo1ns Service 
to develop sufficient evidence to establish a violation of the local gambling 
statute. A representative of the Custon1s Service nottlied the ,.'task force" 
representatives of the local police department's interest in this matter and 
immediately thereafter, according to the officials of the· Niagara Falls Police 
Department, attorneys and other members of the 'task force" appeared at the 
police department and "took over" the entire investigation. 
SAC Neil J. Welch of our Buffalo Office has since determined 
from representatives of the Niagara Falls Police Department and the Customs 
Service that the investigative activity of the "task force" was so inept that the· 
case against Reinhart was 'blown." (In conducting a surveillance the task force 
utilized a panel truck and their actions, while in the panel truck, were such that 
·they caused the truck to rock back and forth revealing to the gamblers who were 
watching: that people were inside the truck.) Surve~llances conducted by the 
''task force, "including attorneys assigned thereto, were readily discovered by 
Reinhart and his associates. Reinhart remarked to a customs agent at the 
border crossing that he would give the investigators a good run around . 
.. Although Reilmart's gambling activities were being carried on 
bet,veen Canada and the lTnited States, that is across state lines, in apparent 
violation of the Interstate Transportation in .Aid of Racketeering Statute , the 
FBI Office at Buffalo was not nottlied. The FBI has a substantial investigative 
(CONTINUED - OVER) 
- 5 -
1 J; 
NW 3 
·, Page 520 
.·• 
,.~ .. , ',;}~ 
