-4-
with the columnist, Margurite Higgins, in which Diem asserted 
that his policy toward the Buddhists had always been conciliatory 
and asked for harmony and support of the government. 
Shortly after midnight on Augudt 21, 1963, Nhu ordered forces 
loyal.to him to attack pagodas throughout Vietnam, arresting monks 
and sacking the sacred buildings. Over thirty monks were injured 
and 1,400 arrested. 'rhe American Embassy was taken by surprise 
and viewed the attacks as a shattering repudiation of Diem's 
* promises to ;Jol tins. (Pentagon Papers, p.ilu} 
On August 2'1, 1963, the State Department sent a cable 
(Deptel 243) to the new ambassaclor in Vietnam, Henry Cabot Lodge. 
The telc0ram was prepared by Roger Hilsman, nssistant Secretary 
of State for Ear Eastern Affairs, and Under Secret~ry of State 
Averell i:arriman, and was approved by President ;:ennedy. (Pentagon 
Papers, p.235) Deptel 243 told Lodge to press Diem to take 
"prompt dramatic c1.ctions·' to redress the· grievances of the 
Buddhists_ 
. - . 
"vie must at same time also tell key military leaders 
that US would find it impossible to continue support 
GVL'l (Vietnama.se Government) miJ_itarily and economically 
ualess above steps are· taken imn1ediately which we 
recognize requires removal of the Nhu's from the scene. 
We wish give Diem reasonable opportunity to remove ,~hu' s 
but if he remains obdurate, .then we are prepared to accept 
the obvious implication that we can no longer support 
Diem: You may also tell appropriate military commanders 
we will give them clirect support in any interim period 
of breakdown central government mechanism. Con-
currently•with above, Ambassador and country teams should 
urgently examine all possible alternative leadership and 
rnake detailed plans as to hov1 we might br.inCJ Diem's 
replacement if this should become necessary '' 
* Coi1ein te.stified tiwt the raids might have been timed to occur 
when no American Ambassador was in Vietnam (Nolting had left a few 
days before and.his replacement, Lodge, had not yet arrived) (Conein, p.21). 
Hlf 5095.'i DocI<l:32423.52.'i Page 136 
