i\:'J?c~1:ry OF 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST'.. "--··--• •• •· ri-:-~r .~r 
proportion of these dealt with the deploy~ent of defensive mis­
siles and related activities. Knowledg~ ·on the part of the 
analysts that such a deployment was in fact going on, plus the 
normal difficulties encountered by untrained observers in tell-
• ing an offensive missile from a defensive one, tended to throw 
.·a sort of· smoke-screen around the Soviet offensive deployment 
when ·1 t finally began. The CIA c.nalytic ·apparatus, , however, 
recognized J.nd correlated the first authentic reports of 1ffiBM 
equipment ever to be r-eceived. in Washington, and took action 
upon them. It targeted the San Cristobal area, not as another 
location where alleged missile activity should be negated by • 
photography, but as a suspect SS-4 site. 
47. This process took about three weeks, from. the d::t te 
when the first observation was made on the ground in Cuba to 
the preparation of t~e target card. The two reports from Opa 
Locka which triggered it were: 
a. An 9bservation in Havana on 12· September of a 
convoy, carryi·ng: long canvas-covered· objects which the source 
identified under interrogation as resembling SS-4s. This re­
port, which was disseminated by CIA on 21 September, contained. 
suffi~ient accurate detail to· alert lntelligence arialysts. 
b. An observation on 17 September of a convoy mov­
ing toward the San Cristobal area. This information, received 
on 27 September, dovetailed· in many respects with the.earlier 
re::_::,ort·. 
48. The arrival of the second report led CIA analysts 
to a tentative conclusion that the two observers had in fact 
seen·the same convoy,~ and that there wa~ a possibility of th~ 
SS-4 identificatibn. being genuine. A day or so earlier~ a 
target card on San Cristobal had been prepared on the basis 
of· a vague report of "Russians building a rocket base.'' Now 
this card was removed and, with the two reports cited above 
and other less specific information on activity in this area 
which ~as beginfting to trickle in, a new card was prepared 
between 1 and 3 October which was in effect a priority require­
ment for photographic coverage, This card was used in the 
targeting of the 14 October flight (see para 63). It read as 
follows: "Collateral reports indicate the existence of a re­
stricted area in Pinar del Rio Province which is suspected of 
including an SSM site under construction, particularly SS-4 
Shyster. The area is bounded by a line connecting the follow­
ing four town: Consolacion del Norte (8332N/2244W); San Diego 
del Los Banos (8325N/2235W); San Cristobal (8301N/2243W); and 
Las Pozos (8317N/2250W). Requirement:· Search the area deli­
neated for possible surface missile construction~ with parti­
cular attention to SS-4 Shyster." 
-25-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
