13-00000 
f 
ODO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
3. DEFINITIONS 
'; 
I 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
Within the context of this instruction, the definitions listed below will apply. 
Special -note must be taken of the fact that the key term "operational use" 
employed throughout this instruction has been defined in the_ most succinct 
manner consistent with clarity. It has not been feasible, however, to cover in 
a definition the entire scope of possible variations in operational circumstances 
which may be encountered in DDO activities. The definition of "operational 
use" is intended to provide guidance for the majority of cases, and must be 
_ employed with responsible opei;ational judgment. Issues involving a deter­
mination of "operational use" which cannot be resolved with reasonable as-
-surance by the responsible operating components will be referred to the 
Deputy Director for Operations for decision. 
a. Operational Use 
Operational use is interpreted to mean the recruitment, utilization, or train-
-ing of any individual or group for DDO purposes on either a -witting or 
unwitting basis_ by or on the· behalf of an element of the Operations Direc­
torate. Utilization is made of an -individual or group whenever that in­
dividual or group; responding • to the direction or solicitation of a DDO -
element, provides information, performs services, provides cover, or supplies 
financial, materiai or other support necessary for the accomplishment of 
• ODO operational objectives either directly or indirectly, to or for an ele­
ment of the Operations Directorate. • 
b. DDO Element 
• Any person or group who or which is responsible to, owned or controlled 
either directly or indirectly by the Operations Directorate. Included tinder 
this definition are employees or members of -Agency proprietary mech­
anisms. 
c. Operational Contact 
Any association having as its purpose the initiation or furtherance of ODO 
operations. 
4. RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATIONAL USE 
a.-Restrictions on the operational use of individuals or groups are.of four types 
and cover twenty five separate categories as outlined below and as described 
in greater detail in paragraphs 5 through 8 of this instruction: 
( 1) Operational Use is Prohibited ( see paragraph 5) : 
(a) Members and trainees of ACTION; 
( b) Fulbright grantees; 
.2 
SECRET 
• 
• i 
at 
