· f./ {?. }t7t;~:,}/:r:~:?::'.~~;!:~·-:.";:~• .:.;:_::: . 
2 2 June 1964 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUHJECT: Minutes of the M~eting of the 303 Committee, lf° June 1964 
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. McCone, Mr. Vance, Mr. Johnson. 
Mr. Mann .1nd Mr. FitzGerald wer,e also present. 
- A general discussion was held on problen1s arising from increased 
activities on the part of organized Cuban emigre gruups, independent 
adventurers, purported plots to assassinate Castro and the general edginess 
and instability on the island. 
None of those present appeared to feel that it was either realistic or 
practical to sever connections with or to withdraw support from the two 
principal emigre organizations, those of A:rtime and Ray. 
The recent escapades and overall capabilities of Manolo Ray were 
deplored but it was agreed first: that steps should be taken to get the Puerto 
Rican authorities to release his ship; second: that he should be promptly 
advised in accordance with the stated policy established by the late President 
to cease forthwith all activities from the United States Mainland and find 
himself a new base of operations; third: no monies would be forthcorning, 
specifically a requested $25,000, until point two above has been accomplished. 
No help was to be offered in finding Ray a new -Caribbean base. Mr. Mann 
was particularly interested that Ray not be encouraged to transfer to the 
Dominican Republic because of the fragility of the regime. 
The next subject discussed was the recent visit of Major Oliva to both 
the Attorney General and Assistant Secretary Mann. It was pointed out that 
Oliva is both a zealot and a man of integrity and that his only interest in life 
is leading a return to his homeland. Any attempts to put Oliva into business 
would be expensive and undesirable at this time. It was decided that 
Mr. Bundy would ask the Attorney General if he would be willing to dampen 
Cliva's ardor~ 
The activities of Artime from Nicaragua were discussed next. Alexis 
Johnson pointed out that Artime raids could conceivably provoke Castro into 
utilizing Cuban SAM sites; he said this possibility should not be discounted. 
But it was also pointed out that Artirne 1 s recent sugc1r mill' raid succeeded 
in leading Castro to mobilize many persons involved in important sugar 
harvesting and thus constituted a successful econon1ic warfare byi:,roduct. 
