87B 
5. 
f 
.[ 
6 .. 
7 .-
NW 38321 
. \ 
.SECTION,, INVESTIGATIONS OF 
ORGANIZATIONS AND 
SUBVERSI~, 
INDIVIDUALS 
(2) Informants and sources should not be directed by FBI to Join 
or participate in activities of target organization. However, 
if subversive group requests informant to do so, latter may 
comply. 
(3) ~e certain all persons interviewed, including informants, are 
aware that FBI is not interested in normal activities of target 
:organization but solely in efforts to influence or control the 
organization by subversive elements. 
d. Conversion to full scale investigqtion 
If target organization becomes completely dominated and controlled by 
subversive elements, advise FBIHQ on UACB basis that full investigation 
is being initiated as subversive organization. Drop infiltration 
designation from title of case. 
Subversive publications 
Each office should review[any independent subversive]publications produced 
in its territory[(as contrasted with publications issued by subversive 
groups which are under investigation, see Bo 3o e .. above)]to deternine 
whether any advocate violations within FBI jurisdictiono If so, submit 
available information by LHM to FBIHQ with copy of pertinent material and 
make recommendations as to further actiono Insure that FBIHQ is aware of 
all subversive publications with brief identifying data. 
Investigative steps 
Efforts should be made to develop reliable informants at all levels and 
in all segments of subversive organization. 
Live informant coverage should be supplemented by other logical investigation 
including review of appropriate public records and publications, 
interviews with former members of group and, on selective basis, through 
such techniques as physical and photographic surveillance. 
Administrative and reporting procedures 
a. Reporting requirements and status 
When necessary data has been developed concerning organization's 
activities (See B.[3.]above), submit report. After initial report, 
reports should be submitted semiannually (unless FBIHQ has instructed 
otherwise in individual cases) .. LHM may be used to provide FBIHQ or 
other interested agencies with significant data of immediate interest 
on an interim basis between reports. 
b. _Informant coverage 
Cover pages of reports should include a brief summary of informant 
coverage available with respect to the organization, identifying 
informants who report on the group's activities by symbol number and 
showing specifically which informants are members of the group. 
c. Topical headings 
Both reports and LID,ts should be organized under logical headings. 
d • . Character 
All cases should .use character "Internal Security," e.g .. , "Communist 
Party, USA; Internal Security." In case of subsidiary or front group, 
character should show na.rne or abbreviation of the parent organization, 
e.g., "Young Workers Liberation League, Internal Security - CPUSA"; 
"Young Socialist Alliance, Intetnal Security - SWP." Caption of 
• subversive infiltration cases should include name of subversive group 
and target organization, e.g., "Infiltration of (Name of target 
organization) by Socialist Workers Party, Internal Security - swp.u· 
e. Classification - 100 
1M9 
