13-00000 
CCiNF IDE~ll AL 
( Flh eii' 11 I 1'e 'd 1 n ) 
SECRECY AGREEMENT 
1. I, L@C/4N 41awka 7 U~ iZC, understand that upon enter-
ing on duty with the Central Intelligence Agency .ram undertaking a posi­
tion of trust in that Agency of the Government responsible to the Presi­
dent· and the National Security Council for intelligence relating to the 
security of the United States of America. I understand that in the 
course of my employment I will acquire information about the Agency and 
its activities and about intelligence acquired or produced by the Agency. 
2. I have read and understand the provisions of the Espionage Act, Title 
18, USC, secs. 793 and 794, and .I am aware that unauthorized disclosure 
of classified information relating to the national defense may subject 
me to prosecution for violation of that Act, whether such.disclosure be 
made while I am an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency or at any 
time thereafter. 
3. In addition, however, as I am undertaking a position of trust, I have 
a responsibility to the Central Intelligence Agency not to discl.913e any 
classified information relating to the Agency without proper authoriza­
tion. I undertake, therefore, not to discuss with or disclose to any 
person not authorized to hear it such information relating to the Central 
Intelligence Agency, its activities, or to intelligence material under 
thE:? control of the ·Agency. I further understand that this undertaking 
is a condition of my emp.loyment with the Central Intelligence Agency, that 
its violation may subject me to immediate dismissal for cause or other 
appropriate disciplinary action, and that this undertaking shall be equally 
binding upon me after my employment with the Agency as during it. 
4. I understand that the burden is upon me to ascertain whether or not 
information is classified and if so, who is authorized to receive it, 
and, therefore, I will obtain the decision of authorizedoff'icials of 
the Agency on these points prior to disclosing information relating to 
the Agency, and failure to obtain such a decision will be grounds f'or my 
dismissal. 
5. I understand that my unauthorized action or utterance in the nature 
of' a publication or which would reasonably be expected to result in pub­
licity on intelligence or intelligence activities would be in violation 
of Government and Agency regulations and would be grounds f'or -my dismissal. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
FORM NO. 368 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EOI TIONS· I DEC 55 
