13-00000 
. :::~ ~: ~;-~: ::; 
:i\Hl;.; /iit / 
j 
before dispatching him to Cuba, he has attempted to carry out ; 
his instructions. By October he had succeeded .in eliciting • 
significant information from the ~arget, and was confident his 
full·recrtiitrilent was simply a matter of time. One inhibiting 
fe~ture affecting the pace of this operation is the fact that 
the agent lives in Santiago while his relative, the target, is 
n resident of Havana. Unquestior..:·bly the full recruitment of . • 
the target could help fill an important gap in our reporting • 
on GOC activities. • 
(b) In June 1962 TFW, obtained a lead to a 
person very closely related to Fidel CASTRO. Throughout the 
summer extensive but necessarily circuraspent negotiations were 
conducted to bring this person to Mexico where· full recruitment,· 
training and briefing would be possible. The negotiations 
culminated in success. The agent wns met and trained by Agency 1,, 
personnel in September. and early October and dispatched to Cuba • ,{ 
on 15 October with the specific mi~sion of· reporting on the " vt! 
thoughts, plans and activities of the CASTROS and other leading ·'--\,1 . 
GOC figures. Since the target, prior to recruitment did not \j 
possess the kind of political awareness which would have led him 
systematically to observe those GOC personalities to whom he 
had matural access, the Agency was denied any prime political 
intelligence from this source during the•reporting period. 
(c) Throughout the summer 1962, TFW 
received various reports, the tenor of which were that Ernesto 
'Che' GUEVARA would lik:e to defect from. Cuba.· Each report proved,· 
up~n closer inquiry, to bo groundless, until we learned in late 
September that n Mexican industrialist had claimed GUEVARA had 
asl:ed him in 1961 for assistance in leaving Cuba. Though many 
of the facet~ of this disclosure tallled with other known data, 
exploitation of this exceedingly important lead was hamstrung by 
the inability to aline· a qualified agency officer with the widely• 
travelling Mexican. This lead illustrates well the frustrations 
involved in pursuing high-level targets within a rigid time 
framework, arid with a limited number of available personnel. 
If also illustrated the need to persist, whe~ the target is of 
sufficient importance, i~ the follow up of "far-out" leads. 
· 3. Military 
(a). In late July TFW recruited a Cuban 
legal .traveller ~x. p:ressly because._~f..,his • close relationship with . 
a member&f the CUban Gerieral Staf~9~ Once again only a few hours 
was available.in which to train the agent. Nevertheless, during 
August, September and October the agent persisted in his efforts 
( 
