[ 
! 
I ~---,.1· ~- . ~ ,,_ 
NtW~J21 
10. 
11. 
120 
13. 
14. 
15. 
• SECTION ,o,. Sr ITY IllFORl11Jl~S[AND CONFIDEIIT
1 
.SOURCES] 
such activities, the Dureau will consider placing him in contact 
with a reliable publisher, but it must be made clear to the inform-
ant that the Bureau will not sponsor or endorse any book or publi-
cation which he elects to write 0 
All payments to discontinued security informant3 and'confidential 
sources must be made on a strict c.o.d. basis. Obtain Bureau author­
.,ity before making any such payments. In requesting Bureau authority 
for paym~nts of this type, submit complete details as to the infor~ 
mation furnished by the discontinued informant or source in the past 
and what is to be expected of the informant or source in the future 0 
Once an informant is exposed in any manner v;hatsoever he is no longer 
to be carried as a concealed source in reports or memoranda. His 
:true name is to be set :forth., together with descriptive data. 
When an office receives information concerning,or obtains information 
from,an ex-informant, copies of memoranda prepared must be furnished 
to the oi'fice which orig-inally handled the info;rmant so that the file 
• of the ex-informant will be as complete as possible 0 
1070. 
When an informant has been discontinued for cause, such as unreliabil­
ity., he should not be contacted in the :future for informat·ion. If 
sue~ kn individual furnishes information it should be accepted, but in 
setting out the information in reports oz· communications use the 
individual's true n~me, together with an appropriate description of his 
reliability. 
Re~ove flash notice per section F,[6.] 
Repeated use of the same discontinued informant as a witness at security 
trials an:d hearings should be avoided. Make, an all-out effort to develop 
witnesses who can furnish the same testimony as that expected of previously 
used witnesses. Advise Bureau of any indication by Government attorneys 
.that an informant-witness who has previously testified will be called 
upon for testimony at a subsequent trial or hearing and furnish your 
comments concerning possibility of supplanting· the testimony of individual 
involved. Submit cormnunica tion under appropriate case character. 
• Every effort should be made to prevent a discontinued informant from 
becoming involved in situations which may prove embarrassing to inform2.nt 
or the Government. Immediately after he testifies for the fil·st time, a 
serious tn.lk should be had with informant by the S.AG in the presence of 
the .Ji.gent who handled the informant. This interview should be conducted 
in the fteld office and informant told that: 
ao He will no longer be operated by the Bureau 
b~ Since he is a public figure, he will probably be contacted by 
representatives of the press, radio, and television for interviews and 
appearances 
c. He raay be sought as a witness by congressional committees, by the 
Iromigr2.tion and Naturalization Service, and by state authorities 
d. (Firmly stress.) In connection with such interviews and appearances, 
informant must continue to be factual and truthful and must not build 
~p or embellish the statements., for if he does so he will wind up in 
serious trouble • 
.Advise Burc?.u resttlts of such interview and comment on its possible 
effectiveness. 
