14-00000 
lvOlilFIJ!i □li'PI,i.b " 
Budget and Finance 
Question 1 - In Cold Warrior Mangold refers to a CIA secret 
slush fund which was tightly controlled by Angleton and not 
audited by usual procedures. Did the fund exist? Was the fund 
audited? Are there any records of CI operational 1 expenses for 
the period 1959-63? 
According to C/Financial Service Division (FSD/OFL) who 
contacted a former finance officer who was a secretary in CI in 
1957-60, to the best of their recollection CI did not have their 
own fina~ce officer. C/FSD also talked to another officer during 
that era who did not recall that CI was one of the early offices 
to do their own certification of expenses. It _was his feeling 
that there very well may have been a CI fund that was not 
handled in the usual way however it is very unlikely to 
impossible that any fund was not audited/certified in some 
fashion (i.e. reviewed and certified decentrally and only 
reported on the books in some aggregate amou~t). He commented 
that he has never in discussion with finance officers heard of an 
account managed by staff officers that wasn't certified by 
someone in f~nance. 
Question 2 - Mangold also refers to unnamed CI/B&F officer 
who says he worked for Angleton from 1958-64 and never dealt with 
him directly on a single matter. Is there a list of B&F 
officers assigned to the CI staff from 1959-63? Do their records 
still exist? 
OFL - The Career Management Officer stated that we would 
need the name of the B&F officer in order to identify if he/she 
was assigned to the CI/Staff. CMO also stated that he does have 
some old records during that time period pertaining to 
assignments but the list he has is alphabetical by name. The 
current procedure is that the soft file maintained in OFL 
contains the assignme-nt of each officer in the biographical 
profile. 
HRM - Has microfilm staffing complements for the 1959-63 
timeframe. These staffing complements were created on a 
quarterly basis and are broken down by the office (location~ 
level. With the correct directorate/office name we can visually 
search these microfilm records, find the correct office and 
produce hardcopy reports listing the employees on the rolls for a 
given quarter. The hardcopy report could be reviewed to break 
down the office listing by occupation and create a list of names 
associated with the occupation (i.e. B&F officers assigned to CI 
from 1959-63. The employee name could then be used to located 
current or archived HRM files. CAUTION: 1) If an individual came 
