13-00000 
Ii,: 
The Honorable John M. Deutch 
November 27, 1996 
Page2 
The Review Board has recently considered how it, along with th~ relevant_fajeral 
agencies, can best demonstrate to the American public that a thorough, good:-faith, and 
diligent effort has been made to locate and release all remaining assassinatfori_:related 
records within the control of the United States Government (and that the Government is 
not hiding any such materials from public discl!Jsure). • Pursuant to th~ Con~sional 
mandate under the JFK Act to "create an enforceable, independent; and acctjuntable . 
. -~ process for the public disclosure of such records," 44 U.S.C. § 2107(2)(a)(3)~.:t:Lfe'Review 
Board seeks to have the relevant federal agencies pro_vide a complete and specific 
accounting of their efforts to locate and release assassination-related records/:including 
a full explanation for any destruction of such records. 
Accordingly, the Review Board requests that each relevant agency adhere to the formal 
compliance program (hereinafter "JFK Act Compliance Program") outlined below and 
devised by the Review Board pursuant to its powers under Section 7q)(l)(A), (B), (C), 
(0), and (F) of the JFK Act We hereby request that you undertake the following 
measures by the dates provided (these dates were set in view of the fact that the 
Review Board's operations currently are scheduled to expire on September 30~-1997): 
1. Designation of Agency Compliance Official (pr officials) and statement of 
intent to comply with the JFK A.ct. We request that by December 9, 1996, 
your agency.designate an Agency Compliance Official who ultimately wm • 
be responsible for ensuring that the agency has complied with its 
obligations under the JFK Act, including the identification, location, and 
organization of assassination records and the transmission of those 
records to the National Archives and Records Administration (''National 
Archives"). Although the Review Board assumes that Mr. John Pereira or 
Mr. Barry Harrelson will serve in this position, we nevertheless await 
your formal confirmation.·If necessary1 your agency may designate 
additional persons with knowledge of the· measures that have-oeen 
undertaken to locate assassination records. • 
We also request that by December 9, 1996, the agency convey its 
agreement to adhere to the compliance procedures outlined in this letter. 
To the extent that any compliance procedure described below appears to 
be unreasonable or to present difficulties that we may not have 
anticipated, please explain why and make alternate suggestions to us. 
2. Initial Statement of Compliance. We request that the Agency Compliance 
Official prepare, by January 6, 1997, an initial written statement of the 
