. ' ., 
l 
-Memo Jo J. Casper to Mr. M hr 4/8/70 • • .· . . 
Re: Attorney General's Staff ~onference ·- 4/8/70 - 5 PM 
George J. Reed, Chairman, Board of Parole, questioned Mr. Hoover 
• as to the extent. of Communist influence in all of this New Left, Black Panther, 
Students for a Democratic Society, and militant action that we are faced w"lth. 
The Director explained that the Communist Party will join anything that will · 
further its causes and that they get their orders directly from Moscowca He 
. said their influence in sotne organizations is co:nplete control and in others 
it is only one of participation but, IE pointed out, they are· always the most 
vocal and, consequently, are very influential in tl).ose groups that they participate 
in. He said the Black Panthers follow the philosophies of many international 
revolutionary Communistso The-Director then cited the in::ident of the young 
girl who blew up ~er father's home in New York which she had turned into a 
I 
bomb factory. He stated she started to get out of control when at Bryn Mawr 
. she joined the Students for a Democratic Society, and now she has fled to 
Canada. and we are unable to extradite her. 
At this point Deputy Attorney General Kleindienst thanked Mr. Hoover 
for 'his outstanding presentation. He said he felt they all had a better kno\vledge 
of the FBI and a greater appreciation of the many problems from a security and 
crime standpoint facing our country .. With that, the official. part of the conference 
was adjourned. Many of the conferees came up and personally congratulated Mr. 
Hoover and thanked him fo:: his presentation, including asking Mr. Hoover to 
autograph the FBI exhibit folde:r which had been passed out to each participant. 
l feel this outstanding presentation on the part of the Director brought 
great credit and praise for our organization. Hopefully, it will act as an incentive 
. to some of • our counterparts in th~ Departm~nf to do a more aggressive job 
in fulfilling their du-des in meeting their security and criminal responsibilitiese 
Submitted for information. 
- 6 -
NW 3 ._.----.,·u.321~'.'.)'.'.)4 
Page-275 .. 
. _-,. 
