f : 
i-,, 
;, 
L-'. 
r i 
107P 
P. 
0.. 
0. SEC'l'ION ·10. SECURITY INFORM.ANTS J..l.':D CO:HFl-TD.L SOURCES 
SIGNING OF LOYALTY OATHS, Al~FIDAVITS, AND STATEMENTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2 .. In.formants should be ca~tioned to k€:ep the contacting .Agent fuJ.ly 
advised of any situation wherein they might be x·equired to sign such a 
form. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4.. The Bureau will consider as a last resor·t advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant's activity; however, such situations 
must be kept to a m:i.nimum in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
5. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau is to be 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate recom­
mendation for proposed action. 
6. In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loy,lty oath 
in the negative. 
DISCONTINU!!D INJi'ORMANTS 
1. When the services of an informant are discontinued, mark the na.me card 
11canct:lled. 11 Destroy the symbol card. Never destroy the name card. • 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symbol number in the syrnbol 
number index. If a d:j..scontinued informant or a discontinued potential 
security informant or confidential source to whom a symbol number was 
once assigned later is reactiv~ted, remove his name card from the 
syr.1bol number indext mark it reactivated with appropriate da·l;e> note 
the.re on :type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential security informant or confidential source is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4. Advise the Bureau[of· the date]when a potential informant or informant is 
discontinued and the reason therefor. 
5. Advise the Bureau as to whether or not the :informant is willing to testify 
in open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all cas.es of security of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance with section 69F, volume III~ of this manual. 
6. Review the informant's file to determine if any copies or summaries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Depart­
ment's interest in using the informant fo·r testifying when he becomes 
available as a witness.are contained therein. In those casesin which it 
is evident the Department has indicated a desire to cons~der the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, ·advise the Bureau in each such 
substantive case, except in those cases in which it is obvious the sta·tute 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does not apply to security of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the Bureau. 
7. A statement shall also be made to the effect that the measures to con­
trol informants, set out in 8 below,' have been considered and 'reconunenda­
tions shall be made w~en it appears that such are warranted. 
B. ·when the services of an informant are discohtinued, maint~in close con­
tact with him so that the informant will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Bu~eau'~ 
best interests. When an informant is discontinued, determine· whether 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newspaper article, or other­
wise pu~licizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rathe~ 
than making other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
·24 
4-13-64 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1576 
( 
