INrERVIEW AND MEErlliG SUMMARY Paged_ of~/ 
To understand decisions in 1966 or 1970 it is 
necessary to go back to World War II, according 
to Papich. President Roosevelt got the FBI into 
the foreign intelligence field in World War II. 
Overnight the FBI had to generate the capability 
to move into Latin America against the German 
espionage operation which included business covers, 
radio networks, and influence in Latin American 
governments. The FBI had no precedent or guidance. 
Assistant FBI Director Hugh Klegg conferred with 
the British in London for assistance. FBI agents 
went into Latin America first under business covers, 
then in the embassies, which was thin cover. The 
legal attaches established official liaison w 
local authorities. The FBI's role was prim 
counterintelligence but some positive 
was gathered about the stability of 
FBI agents learned on the job. Mo 
headquarters was ridiculous until 
were reported back. 
The OSS ran operations and Asia as well 
as Latin America. Donov ran undercover 
operations in the United S tes. See the book 
by Donald Downs. OSS had a very close relation­
ship with MI 5 and MI 6. The British also ran 
operations in the United States in 1939-41. No 
one knows how many. They saw the FBI as neophytes 
knowing little about the business. The British 
developed closer relations to OSS than to FBI. 
At first, Donovan and Hoover were friendly but 
Hoover received complaints of OSS operations in 
th example, the OSS bugging / ~ 
o Other complaints came from ,S 
La ca. e ction between Hoover and 
Donovan is important background for Hoover's view 
of the CIA. Donovan would recruit persons regard­
less of their background if he thought they had 
the capability to penetrate the accea~~ The OSS 
use of Communists "shook the hell" out of Hoover, 
as did OSS discussions in Moscow of cooperation 
with the NKVD. Hoover would never work with 
Communists. Hoover saw CIA roots in OSS. Papich 
stressed that OSS had some great people, extremely 
capable and dedicated, but OSS had an element that 
Hoover would never buy. 
NW 50955 Docid:32281992 Page 4 
B'ILE: 
I 8. 
SECREJ )0 
I bf 
