• • 
\ 
\ 
\ 
I can't recall the conversation at the meeting but think that 
Sullivan outlined the request of the President to study means of 
getting better -intelligence information on new left activities and 
violent protest movements in the US, especially ~ith regard to 
possible foreign support. I think Sullivan probably outlined areas 
of concern and asked representatives present to document where they 
felt intelligence was lacking, how it could be obtained, who should 
obtain it and what was needed to obtain it. I said I couldn't at this 
date recall specific observations or proposals and rather believed 
the purpose of the meeting was to outline the general problem and 
ask the representatives to document these and come in with specific 
recommendations at a subsequent meeting. I am certain Mr. Huston 
spoke about the purpose of the meeting but I can't recall his comments. 
This was the only meeting of the Working Group I attended. 
I told Mr. Sullivan that if agreeable with him I would not attend 
subsequent meetings and I thought the FBI had several representatives 
present and that the ~hrust was on new left and related activities. As 
I recall he said "suit yourself." Johnson pressed me on this and I 
told him this was what I expressed to Su~livan but I also was somewhat 
uneasy after the first meeting as. I did not believe Mr. Hoover was 
aware of collection efforts that were likely to be recommended. I 
could not state what FBI members attended subsequent meetings but 
I believe Charles Brennan and Bill Cregar, and of course, Bill 
Sullivan, attended as well as some other representatives . .. 
I can't say who drafted the report but was sure it was under 
Sullivan's direction. During the period of the meetings Deke DeLoach 
had retired and Sullivan had been appointed Assistant to the Director 
and moved from the 9th & D Building to the Justice Building. I 
don't recall when Mr. Hoover's objections to certain of the 
recommendations were added .. I can't. say whether I ·saw the report 
prior to the objections being in it but may have; I do recall seeing 
the report after the objections were in it. I don't know whether 
Mr. Hoover told Sullivan to put the objections in it but presume 
Sullivan knew Mr. Hoover's views and put the objections in on this 
basis. I could not answer the question as to whether Mr. Tolson 
was the person responsible for having the objections made but felt 
he would have objected to the initial recommendations. 
- 2 -
NW 38326 Docld:32939621 Page 18 
