[J.07B - C SECTION 107.SECURITY INFORMANTS[AND CONFI.TIAL SOURCES] 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
. [ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
l4. 
15. 
(16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
Investigation of com.~unist petition signers who are acquainted with 
Communist Party functionaries 
Be alert to receive any suggestions of plant executives and highly placed 
personnel who are reliable and friendly to the Burei:i.u concerning members 
of subversive organizations who migh·l; cooperate with the Bureau or employ­
ees who might be willing to infiltrate a subversive organization, In the 
past such ·contacts have on occasion resulted in the plan·!;t s making avail­
able the services of an employee who already is an infor~ant of the manage­
ment. • 
Personnel directors in plants frequently are able to advise of members of 
communist--dominated unions who retain their membership merely to holu 
their positions. 
With regard to both 10 gnd 11 above, if possible, the official should 
suggest to the potential iLformant that he contact the Bureau rather 
than have an Agent originate the contact. 
After the Bureau has notified the armed forces of a comrr.unist in an indus­
trial plant having armed forces contracts, the communist frequently recants 
when he is informed of the charges and is. facing the pos si bili ty of dis­
missal or transfer to a nonrestricted position in the same plant. At 
such a time, officers friendly to the Bureau sometimes suggest that 
the person acl-v-ise the Bureau of his past activities. Be alert to take 
advantage of such cooperation when offered, 
Review of Communist Party registration records to ascertain what individ­
uals me,rely registered but ne,rer became active 
Use of a reliable th_ird party to make the contact with a possible inform­
ant when direct contact by an Agent is inadvisable. Request Bureau to 
furnish the services of an individual who is available for such a contact. 
Officials and employees of foreign establishments in the U. s. 
Employees of the United Nations Secretariat 
Cont~cts (business, social, or otherwise) of foreign officials stationed 
in •: ::-:· U. S , 
Indi·;.\.d.uals who because of 'oackground, employment, or social status are 
in a position of intellfgence interest to a foreign principal and who 
will undertake intelligence assignments under the guidance of the 
Bureau. ( See deseco program, section 105K, 6h, volume IV, of this manual.)) 
(C. DTVESTIGA'.rIOlT OF POTENTI.AL[.SECURITY]INFORMANTS 
\:hen a decision made to consider a particular indi vidu.al for informant pur­
poses, back.ground investigation must be conducted, This should consist of 
the following: 
1. Check of field office files for derogatory information, particularly 
of a subversive nature 
2. Discreet canYi:i.ss of other informants to ascertain if the potential inform­
ant is known to current informants of your office 
3. Inquiries of discreet nature to obtain information concerning the individ­
ual's personal history (date and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, health, 
reliability, stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past 
employments~ and bu1liness connections. Background investigation must 
definitely establish that the potential informant can be utilized without 
any danger of future embarrassment due to instability or unreliability. 
S.ec1~ring bi:i,ckground- inform:"J.tion from the potential informant is not 
suf~icient; the background of the individual must be established by the 
inves+.igation. 
4. Check of local credit and arrest records. Obtain necessary data for 
-!:ib:e completion of an ii'D-9 form which should be transmitted to the Identi­
fication Division to obtain the record, if any, of the informant. 
5. ~4.rmed services record should be reviewed if the individual is a veteran. 
6. Check draft status or status in the armed forces reserve • 
. 7. Domestic.status and if any marital difficulties all details should be 
obtained! 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1505 
\ 
I 
