• 
investigative e.f .. ~ ;rts on our pc~rt. To avoid recurrences of instcnces of 
this nat1..,ire; we . lopted the pol icy of clearing our intentions with the 
Departi.r:.ent of 3t ~te be.fore authorizing the .field to e~:~pencZ any 
invest igat ( ve e.~ ~ort. In this man,n.er we put State Department on not ice 
as to our objec, ·ves at the outset in order that when we retarr1, to 
State to secure i.;l earance for the investigation and interview of 
a particular individual, we will not be denied clearartce on t;-ie groun,ds 
o.t delicate international relations. (65-63113-,89) 
-: 
By letter dated 5-20-58, 12 offices in whose territories 
foreign official establ islu.'zents are located were advised that our ef.torts 
in the development of sources and informants in establ islv:·zents of 
.friendly .foreign nations should be based pri1;·2arily on need and should 
be directed toward development of sources in the es.tC?bl i8h;;,2ents c.t 
ostensib.] .. u. f ·iendJ.u 1~Dreiort cu£tiitries c·1)·· where there ·i.s der·~inite 
.. ., - -✓ • ~ ' ; • 
indication t,ie specific country is drifting to1.1x1,rd alignment with the 
Soviet bloc; (2) i:;here the situation in a particular country involves 
serious political or r;zilitary crisis with international ranifications or 
possible revolutionary activity and good potential e:xists for the Eurcc~u 
to produce val v..abl e int el 1 igence data through coverage o.l .d ipl or::at ic 
establ islu:zents in the ll. :J; or (J) where there is a cl ear and present 
inves.t igat ive neek The 12 offices c.:Jere inforr:ed that Bureau authorit?..' 
must ·oe secured prior to initiating any program to develop soicrces end 
informants within d ipl o;:1,at ic establ is,-inents of a specific country 
outside the Soviet bjoc, at which tine cot2pleteclata must be ft.irnished G!S 
to need and potential benefit o.f such a program. The f ielcl ux;,3 in./orr!ccl 
that, if such a prograr:z is jt;,stified, the Bureau will then discuss the 
matter with the State Depa1-t.o-:zent. 1.7 ollowing ,'Jtate Department clearance, 
the Bureau, wi 11 notify the interested field offices to initiate the 
prograr:z. • J-Iowever, .further Bureau authority will still be required for 
the investigation and interview of each prospect, since State Departr:1.ent 
clearance will be sought in connection with. each of these steps. 
• (65-6JllJ-90) 
Since our redirection of this phase of captioned prograr:z in 
ltay, 1958, with prior State Department clearance we have instituted 
action or continued action previously instituted to develop live sources 
in o.fficial establishments o.f the countries 1 isted below. The first 
column beside the name o.f each coz.aitry shows the nur:iber of presently • 
active sources developed to elate (including those developed prior to 
l!ay, 1958) and the second colu .. '7:n zho;,,:,s the n,vI:l.Jer stz'll under 
cons id erci ti on. 
r, 
.. -
✓ 
C 
~·~-~ . 
i ~ . 
. ' .••• 
