522 ORGANIZED CRIME AND ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS 
operations that they are engaged in, to the detriment of tho public 
at large, and to the detriment of innocent people who can't help 
themselves. It focuses and emphasizes how serious this menace is. 
Very well, you may proceed. 
Mr. Bi:ow:--. Notwithstanding these findings, the grand jury eon­
c1ucled that there ,ms no national or local Mafia in Tampa. I would 
like to submit ns exhibit 1 a certified copy of the report of the gmnd 
jury dated ~farch 30, H)GG. 
The C1u1InL\N". V cry \,ell, this report of the grand jury will be 
receiwd and it may be made exhibit No. 44, antl exhibit 1 to this 
wit1wss' tl'stimony. 
I may later direct it be printed, but as of now we will just let it be 
filed as an exhibit for reference. 
(The document refenNI to was marked "Exhibit No. 44" for refer­
ence, and may be found in the files of the subcommittee.) 
Mr. BnowN. It seems likely to me that the grand jury failed to 
acknowledge without qualilieation the pr6sencc of the l\fafia in Tampa 
because it songht a pnttern of l\fofb operations similar to the historical 
Sirilinn traclition of primitirn and direct extortion, rather than tho 
sophisticated nnd polished control of rackets that now characterize 
that organization. 
The Ci1Am:11AN. I take it from that last statement that you feel 
that they have considerably improved their technique. 
l\Ir. B110,vN. Very much so. 
The CIL\IR)L\"N". ·of crime operations. 
l\Ir. BuowN. Very much. 
Senator l\IusKrn. May I ask a question, Chief, there? 
As I understand what you have just testified relative to the grand 
jury's report, they acknowledged trmt there was some evidence of the 
existence of Sicilian l\Iafia in the community, but apparently felt 
that e\·idence "·ns not conclnsive; is that a correct summary~ 
l\fr. BROWN". That)s correct; yes, Senator. The Tampa Police De­
partment, however, has long been aware that many criminals in our 
area have local reputations as l\Iafiosi. l\Iy staff and I have mn:de a 
cnreful evaluation of those reputations, based upon personal knowl­
edge, criminal records, surveillance reports, personal histories, familial 
relationships, statistical analyses, reports from ronfidential inform­
ants, inform.ation from Federal and local hw-enforcement agencies, 
and other customary police intelligence somces. • • 
It is our considered conclnsion that the Mafia exists in Tampa, that 
it controls most illegal gambling in Tampa and central Florida, and 
that its members have interstate and international ties to other Mafia 
groups. 
The organization of t11e l\fofia in the Tampa area is best understood 
from a chart we have formulated ,vhich I submit to this subcommittee· 
as onr exhibit No. 2. 
Senator MusKrn. Before ·we get to that, Chief, may I ask another 
qnestion? The grand jury to which you referred sat in IV5G,_am I 
correct? 
l\Ir. BnowN. That is correct, sir. 
Senator MusKm. That is 7 years ago. Do you think you have 
accmnulated additional evidence as to the existence of the l\Iafia in 
Tampn. which would justify a new reference to the grand jury~ 
l\Ir. BROWN. Yes; I believe so. • 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 662 
