- 6 -
not been introduced into hostilities or situations pursuant to the pro.visions of 
the Waf Powers Resolution.'' This definition makes it clear that, absent a decla­
ration of war or the introduction of United States Armed Forces pursuant to the 
War Powers Resolution, the killing of foreign officials is a criminal offense. 
Linsert discussion of paramilitary aspec..!:_/ 
In the course of our hearings, some witnesses, while strongly condemning 
assassination, asked whether, as a matter of theory, assassination should absolutely 
be ruled out in a time of truly unusuai national emergency. Adolf Hitle~ was 
cited ,as an example. Of course, the.cases with which we were concerned were not 
of that character.*/ In a grave emergency, the President has a limited power to 
act, not in violation of the law, but in accord with his own responsibilities 
under the Constitution to defend the Nation. As the Supreme Court has declared, the 
Constitution· "is not a suicide pact." Kennedy v. Mendoza-Martinez, 372 U,.S. 144, 
160 (1963) . 
Ab.raham Lincoln, in an unprecedented emergency, claimed unprecedented 
power based on the need to preserve the nation: 
... my oath to preserve the Constitution to the best of 
my ability, imposed upon me the duty of preserving, by 
every indispensable means, that government -- that 
nation -- of which that Constitution was the organic law. 
Was it possible to lose the nation, and yet preserve the 
Constitution? By general: law life• and limb must be pro­
tected; yet often a limb must be amputated to save a life; 
but a ~ife is never wisely given to save a limb. I felt 
that measures, otherwise unconstitutional, might become 
lawful, by becoming indispensable to the preservation of 
the Constitution, through the preservation of the nation 
.... The Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln, Vol. X, 
pp. 65-66 (Nicolay and Hay, Eds. 1894) . 
.:_/Indeed, in the only situation of true national crisis -- the Cuban missile 
crisis -- assassination was not even considered. 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 567 
