( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
• 
PART II 6R 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
H. INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED TO THE BUREAU 
1. Which does not h'ave a nationwide circulation or interest 
2. 
a. Relating t·o· law enforcement concerning 
I
ll Scientific apparatus 
2 Equipment 
3 Personnel 
4 Methods 
{ 5) Economics 
b. Newspaper clippings, other than items bearing the date line of a 
national wire service, should be submitted when they concern 
1) The FBI, derogatory and complimentary. If possible, show author. 
2) Outstanding abuses of parole and probation 
3) Outstanding instances of juvenile crime 
41 Bad local crim& conditions 
5 Scientific crime detection experts 
6 Bureau police schools only vrhen there is some unusual feature 
about the 'publicity. Examp'les: i terns setting forth comments 
made by police officers as to the va.:(.ue of police schools; 
comments on the caliber of schools in which FBI participates; 
incidents in which a police officer credits instruction ~e 
!
7) 
8) 
9) 
received in a police school as enabling him to captu~e a fugitive, 
solve a case, or otherwise perform his work more efficiently. 
(File in individual files of police agencies clipplngs relati~e· 
to each police ~ohool in which field participates.)· . 
Police training'in colleges and universities 
Aggravated sex offenders 
Matters appearing in the press concerning Members of Congress or 
the names of prominent persons who are mentioned in connection 
with Bureau oases. These matters also include wire service stories 
mentioning directly or indirectly persons of prominence in pending 
investigations being handled in your division, Forward such 
matters immediatery and if there is any question as to what 
action should be taken ask for specific instructions. 
(10) Items of interest by nationally syndicated columnists need 
not be submitted if it is apparent that such items will come 
to the Bureau's attention through its review of Washington, 
D. c., newspapers, Columns of interest by writers syndicated 
regionally should, of course, be submitted. 
Method of preparation for transmittal 
a. Mount the clipping on form FD-350 within the borders shown. 
b. Do not fold the clipping except jn the case of a very large picture 
or in the case of a single word in a headline too long to fit in the 
allotted space. Make certain the clipping is placed evenly on the 
paper and does not hang over its edges. If necessary, a second page 
may be used and the only requirement is that a margin at least 1 1/2 
inches deep should be left at the top of the page. 
c. The large block on the right side of FD-350 has space-for the insertion 
of the names of more than one newspaper. The names of newspapers 
clipped'may be overprinted in this space. Placing the page number on 
the line in front of the name of the newspaper will serve to desi~nate 
which paper the clipping is from. The page number may be written in 
longhand._ Only the page number on which the article begins should 
d. 
[ e. ] 
[ f.) 
[ g.] 
be shown. If overprinting is not used, required information other 
than page number should be typed. 
[Show whether the matter mentioned is being investigated.] 
Inser~ staples hori~onJally at the top and bottom and vertically at 
the sides of all clippings. Use only a sufficient number of staples 
to hold the clipping securely to the paper. 
D? no·~ mutilate or mark c~ipping in any manner by underlining or 
circling words or by drawing arrows to direct attention. 
No cover letter needed when submitting clippings unless clarification 
is.required for a particular clipping. This may be handled by routing 
slip, letter, or airtel accompanying clipping in question. 
5 
7-26-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 331 
