- 2 -
missions (both contained in papers from the Coordinator of Cuban 
Affairs dated 7 May). 
There was no objection by the Group to any of the infiltration/ 
exfiltration operations. This approval includes the seven CIA 
operations, the infiltration of a radio operator in support of the 
U.S. Army, and approval of rendezvous opportunities which may arise 
without adequate time to bring them to the Group. The Group also 
noted Mr. Cheever's description of a proposed exfiltration to be 
carried out by the MRR, with some support by CIA. 
With regard to the two sabotage missions, Mr. Cheever said that 
he thought the chances were excellent of carrying them out successfully. 
He said, however, that the critical problem would arise the following 
morning, when sea and ,air interception might well take place. He 
emphasized that under the circumstances that could be expected in the 
aftermath of such sabotage, the Cubans might well disregard any 
territorial limits in the course of hot pursuit of the saboteurs. 
He added, in answer to questions, that there is no doubt that Cubans 
would recognize these operations as being externally mounted, and 
that the agents would certainly talk if capturel'i. 
Mr. Cheever mentioned three possible operational plans which might 
minimize the danger of capture by Castro forces, but emphasized that 
these were by no means operationally we"il-designed nor was he re­
commending them, and further that they did not come within any exist­
ing policy approvals. 
The feeling of the Group was that the damage that could be done 
to the Cuban economy by successful execution of either of these 
missions was not sufficient to outweigh the disadvantages. The Group 
recognized that the responsible CIA operators feel themselves under 
obligation to continue to develop suitable proposals, and they thought 
that CIA should be encouraged to keep on doing this~ The difficulty 
of maintaining agent morale in the face of continued inaction was 
recognized. Mr. Cheever was commended for his frank and explicit 
outlining of the pros and cons. 
4. Cuba --NTS Broadcasts 
Mr~ McCone and Mr. Cheever'said that CIA does not object to the 
Department of State's proposal to subsidize NTS broadcasts from the 
Dominican Republic, addressed to Soviet troops in Cuba. They pointed 
out that, this concurrence is subject to the caveats that the Agency 
will be unable to accept responsibility for monitoring and control of 
