j 
~W88321 
- -. 
She urged the women not to~ ~:Usperse, but to join her and. - .. 
others in invading the City Council Char.foers ·with a demand 
that the JRB be allo\'1ed to speak. to the Council even though 
they had not made previous arrangements for a place. on the 
agenda that day. Some of the women were already out of range 
of the public address system and did not h~:J.:r this announcement 
by Wright, having already been dismissed b~ Sissons and told to 
rE;convene at the Board of Education following luncheon. 
Approximately 200 of the demonstrators did enter 
the Council Chambers. They got word to the councilmen; thr9ugh 
one of the staff members·; :that they -wisi1ed to be heard. • • 
A motion to allo,;•1 a J'BB representative to address them was . . 
put before the Council, and defeated by a vote of six to fiveo· 
Immediately follo1·1ing this vote, there ,,,as a unanimous vote 
that the Council adjourn. As the councilmen filed out of the 
room, Tima Tomash rushed to.the front shouting demands that 
they return, while other of the women hissed and booed the 
city legislators. 
During the noon hour some of the women distributed . 
leaflets in the· City Hall and on the surrounding streets- in 
the doi•mtown Civic Center. 
At 1 :OO PM, the i•1onfen, whose nurnbers had by that 
time been reduced to 125., massed in the patio of the. Los .... -. 
Angeles City Board of Education., 450 North Grand Avenue, 
Los .. Angeles.. Sis sons., Wright. and Tomash addressed-the - - . 
assembled de~onstrators, pointing out that money spent in 
Vietnam could be better spent in educatj_on. Wright claimed 
that many of the so-called student 11drop-outs II are in reality 
"push-outs 
11
, claiming that she herself ·nas one of the latter. 
She said, 
11
We need books, not bombs. \·le kn.0-::·1 t:'lis is a racist 
war and we blacks are. not going to fight a· racist war 11• • She 
indicated ·that ·rather than· fight overseas;. the black people 
would remain at home and .fight the racists. $he also said.,. 
1.1Just because I'm pro-black doesn't necessarily mean I'm anti-. 
white." • 
Wright said., "I I m not political., but I am honest~ I 
can't honestly get up and say the pledge of allegiance to the 
American flag, because I really don't have liberty and ~ustice; 
so I just get up and stand and 1·1on' t repeat the pledge. 1 
Later, when she observed a photograph of President Johnson . 
hanging from a wall in the Administration Building at the 
Los .Angeles City :aoard of Education, she told the JRB •,·1ome~ 
with her, "We shouldn't have to look at such pornographic 
It 
pictures .. _ 
•• -4-:. 
Dodd:32989545 Page '695 
