f. . 
(. 
( 
( 
. [ 
. [ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[_ 
. ·[ 
[ 
[ 
r. 
[ 
[ 
·[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[. 
. [ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
SECURITY IHVESTIGNl'IC, 
• 
87C 
4. Annual Communist Party, USA, organiz~ tional anc1 me~bership survey 
[5. 
Eapb office is instructed to initiate by February l of each year a 
detailed and annlytical survey of the organi~ation and membership of 
the Communist Party in :i.ts territory, results to be forwarded to "Ii.he 
Bureau by April 1. Set forth in detail the cornple·be organizational 
structure of each Communist Party district or state orgnni~ation 
including di 1;trict and county commi ttces, together vd .. th the ident1 ti es 
of officers from the club through the districi level. Identify each 
Communist Party club and section in the district, to.gethc:c with the 
identities of individual club members and rnoGt recent date each member 
·was so identified. Where identification of an individual is tentative, 
this fact should be indicated bj placing the word ntehtative" after 
the individual's name. Note the informant coverag~ in each club, as 
well a.s on district and county committees, by setting forth the symbol 
numbers of the in:f'ormants. In those i11stances in which no. :i.nforma.nt 
coverage exists in a particular club or on a district or county committee, 
this fact should be noted. In addi-tion, summarize the over-ali findings 
by setting forth the estimated Communist Party membership in the field 
office territory, together with the number of membe:t"s who lw:ve 1Jeen 
positively and tentatively identified as such within the immediately 
preceding 1.2-mont·h period; Charts and ma·ps should ·oe used in setting 
forth the geographic distribution of the Communist Party whenever 
feasible. Offices which are auxiliary offices in investigation of a 
Corr.,munist Pa,rty district should furnish the required information to 
the office of origin for inclusion in its survey by March 15 of. eac-h 
year. 
Following the organizational breakdown, each· office should critically 
appraise its knowledge of the Co1mnunist Party ·organization -within its 
. divisi!'.)n and set forth its comn1ents ana recommenda:tiorrs·c-:>ncerning· 
investigative activity to be under·taken to eliminate any weaknesses 
detected. In those instances in which the disclosed weakness is that 
of lack of adequate informant coverage, advise in detail of the 
number of Bureau-approved potential security informants being developed 
in the particular area, as well as concret~: plans to obtain ·a.dditiona.l 
informant coverage.in the future. • 
Communist Influence in Racial Matters, Internal Security - C (code name 
'11CIRI111). Bufile 100-442529. Office of origin: new York. • 
a.. Quarterly reports (to reach the Bureau by February 1, May 1, August 1, 
and November 1) should be submitted by each field office for the 
purpose of reporting, in a centralized manner, all available information 
bearing upon the communist influence in racial matters.· Included · 
should be information develop~d under the-title of a variety of 
matters, such as CPUSA, Negro question, communist influence in racial 
matters; communist infiltration cf various organizations, such as the 
Congress of Racial Equality, Student Non-Violent G:· •-::-dinatind' Corr.rnit­
tee, and the like; investigations of ~ubv6rsive i~.-~idua.ls :ctive in 
the racial movement; investigations of communist f1·,:nts· and o·ther 
misce11,neous organizations; and racial disturbances and other racial 
matters investig~ted under the racial matter character. Information 
should be included in these quarterly reports, not,~ithstanding the 
£a.ct that it will duplicate reporting in the other substantive matters 
referred to a.bove.-. These. reports shall be designed to precisely spell 
out the full extent of the communist influenc.e in racial matters. 
They should separate word? and intentions from actions; mere par.tic­
ipation from direct influence; and. the bon::>. fide communist from the 
mere "do-gooder." They should not include information concerning 
legitimate e:f_"forts in the racial movement whore there ts no communist ta.int. • • ••• • • 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page £56 
12a 
9-18-64 
