.. ' 
Gary Steven Krist; Ruth Eisemann-Schier; Barbara J~ne Mackle -
Victim Kidnaping Iv1ackle kidnaped fro_m Atlanta, Georgia, motel 
12-17 -68 and $500, 000 ransom demand made. FBI investigation 
resulted in her safe return and Krist and Eisemann-Schier identified 
as kidnappers. Krist apprehended and all-out investigation continuing 
• to locate Eisemann-Schier. Krist will be tried ·by state and next 
appearance in court scheduled for 2-:-28-69. 
I 
• I • 
SPECIAL I~-vESTIGATIVE OPERATIONS 
Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs (BNDD) Since the Bureau 
of. Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs (Bl'IDD) · ,vas formed under the • 
jurisdiction of the- Department, the -FBI has been conducting back­
ground investigations on its applicants and employees. This was 
·done pursuant to Departmental Order #175--59, dated 4-1-59. . 
However, the BNDD was discovered to be conducting some· dupli­
cate investigation of their clerical applicants. We objected to this 
wasted effort and expressed our views· to the Department which • 
countered with a proposal advanced by Associate BN.DD Director 
Giordano, that we share parts of these investigations with them .. 
By letter of 2- 6- 69, in reply to this proposal, we informed the 
Department that no additional requests for BNDD applicant investiga-
tions would be accepted, except those submitted under the • 
provisions of the Federal Employee Security Program . 
. Martin Edward Underwood Underwood, an employee of the· 
Department of Commerce, who was detailed to the White House in 
1966 to serve as an advance .man for former President Johnson, 
was removed from his off ice at the White House on 2- 6- 69, and the 
Department of Commerce has been instructed to inform him that 
his services are no longer required. • Our investigation of Underwood, 
which was furnished the White House on 2-12- 69, disclose that he 
had severe drinking problem U:ntil at least 1964. 
r 
• Virginia Stanfill Savell We conducted a discreet inquiry of Savell 
in Septe1nber, 1966, at the request of former Senator Kuchel (R) 
of Califernia, for who1n she then worked in his Los Angeles office. 
It had been alleged she was operating a bookie joint out of the 
Senatot''s office but our inquiry developed no information to sub- • 
stantiate this. I-Iowever, it ,vas reported that she ,vas an alcoholic. 
Current investigation revealed Savel atte1npted to comn1it suicide 
• in J~ly, 1967, by overdose of sleeping pills .. 
d 
