13-00000 
/ 
Namet of Ruaiant we 1bould tiy to tract down about Lee Haney Oswald, Yuri Nosenko and the 
JFJtaaaamation: . 
1~ ~• M. Gn"banoY, head of the Second Chief Directorate of the KGB m the early 19601 
wbere oaento ap he worked. prlmarily against American tourists. u deputy chief of the Seventh 
Department. Nolellko ~· himself as sort of .fnored by Gdbanov and he Aid GribanoY ln­
atracted blm, alter tbe JFJC aeuamatioo. to retrieve the Oawald .file from the Mimk KGB rfght 
T~ ~ depu~ chief of the 5ecoll4 Chief~ oc aae of i1a deparlm.m,, It 
time of auaulna Nosento Aid when the me arriTed from Mimki, be ud Koralenko were 
ping onr the aJl.imporlut first volume-and findinK KGB had nothing to do with Oawald--whell • 
JCGB af&cu from~ lipt Department came In.and picked it up on GribanOY'1 mien. to RYiew it 
and write • IIIJDllmJ of It. • ' 
3. The officer wbo picked it up was .COL ·Matveey. deputy chief{I think) of Fint(or American) De-
Partmellt. Second Chief Directorate. Uuha"JO mat name. • 
,. Chief of thia Yant Department was. CoL Sergei M. Fedoaeyey or Fedoseev and prumnably he 
woaJd hava had a hand in or auperriaed prepuation.of the~mka• or summary. , _ 
5. Gribanar and more than 40 other KGB officers were • ed out because of Nosento·a defection, 
accordiDg to Noteakc>v That right1 W~ },.yf%!tt<:Jd ~ 
• 6. ~• Rutraafn. Was ill 1959 a eenior cue officer in KGB responsible iJr Intourist mat­
ten. o an tbat ltwu Rastrusln who told him about °'1raid and bow be wallted to etay ia 
Soviet Ualon.1'TONnko aid Ra,trusin said.Oswald ·dOCSll·t praent intemr to XGB ud Noaeato 
cbechd out with his 1aperlon. Word came back not to bother with Oswald. Noaento wu told to tell 
Rastnam to teD Int.oariat to deal with him. 
7. BaatrmlD nblnled DeXt day and aid we got a problem. OJWald ·tried to kill •~ etc. KGB 
washed baDda of lmll. decided tD let Intourist deal with him. Intourlst then part of Miniatty of For• 
eJp Tnde. Noullko aid he believea question of what to do with Onald was run to top of that min• 
istq ud beyond. to KhruacheY or one of hil deputiea •. 111 any case. decision wu made to let Oawalcl 
■tay Ill ldimk. Bat DOt. Noeeako ~ by KGB. • • . 
8. In the faDif 1963. a KGB co gue;u. [ Tnalin, Senice No~ 2(counterintellJpnce In lorefp 
1:0UDtriea). Fant Chief Directorate. told Nosenko orally that Mmc:o City 1tation had ju,t leDt a cable 
about• request by Oswald for a Tisa to re-enter Soviet Union. What should be donel • 
Noaento aaid he llid. -wait a second. How come he•a back in America?' At that point. ?loaenko said 
he WD't bow OnraJd had gone back. 
' t. Noeenko 1114 lie uld let'1 10 to chief of department who he identified aa a Col. Chelnetov or 
.CbtJne11m(but later aeemcd to 01 his timing might be off ad eomebocly else may hive bien dilifof 
N01ento•1 department at the thne). In any me, Nosenko quoted chief as saying, m effect. 1 remem• 
ber tJua cnsr mat. No. No. No. Tell them we dou•t have any interest! 
Cable back to Maico City acbiuing KGB there get rid of Oswald by telling him to go back to bit 
own coantrr ud apply i>r a :'ria ~t Soviet Embassy In Washington, etc., etc. • 
~ Col.~ wu chief of the· KGB department in Minsk that waa responsible for foreignen 
11. OJq Necb~e of three KGB officera stationed m Mexico City who re:ported)y inter-
roptiii or dealt don his ·visit ta Embany there. Now Jiving in Mo1cow area. 
Other two Mezlco City officers. both·still amc m Russia: Val • tikov and Pavel Yatmw. 
.. ....... 
