[ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 [ 
ER 97-4602 
Assassination Records Review Board 
600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530 
(202} 724-0088 • Fax: (202} 724-0457 
October 28, 1997 
Mr. David W. Carey 
Executive Director 
Central Intelligence Agency 
Washington, DC 20505 
Re: Completing the Review of TFK Assassination Records 
Dear 1vir. Carey: 
I would like to congratulate you on your new appointment at the Agency and wish you 
the very best of success in the difficult ~enges that lie ahead. • 
As you probably are.aware, the Assassination Records Review Board has been 
mandated by Congress and the President to oversee the declassification and transfer to 
the National Archives of all records related to the assassination of President Kennedy. • 
buring tl_le past three years we have received excellent cooperation from CIA in regard 
to the processing of the relevant Agency records. From our perspective, this is due in 
significant part to the work of John Pereira; Chief of the Historical Review G~oup, and 
J. Barry Harrelson, who has shouldered the extremely complicated, burdensome, and 
frequently thankless task of oyerseeing the project. Both of them have proved to be 
superb representatives of the Agency. We also very much appreciated receiving a 
strong message of support from your predecessor, Nora Slatkin, who advised us in a 
meeting on October 16, 1996, of her full support for the project and her willingness to 
commit the necessary Agency resources to complete the project. 
Because the Review Board is now in the final t:welve months of its statutory tenure, I 
thought it would be appropriate to advise you of our goals for the upcoming year. It is 
' our wish to be able to $tate in oui:' Final Report to the President and to Congress that 
CIA has made all reasonable attempts to locate, review, and declassify all available 
records on the Kennedy assassination. We would like the R~view Board to be able to 
assure the American people that the Agency has been fully cooperative in this 
enormous and difficult task, and that the Agency no longer retains any "secret" files on 
the assassination. In addition, we are obligated to keep Congress informed, on a 
monthly basis, of the status of our work and any difficulties that would interfere with 
our ability to achieve our objective. . 
Although many important strides have been made to further our-goals, we nevertheless· 
perceive that the pace of review and declassification of Agency records will need' to be 
,.,-··· •• ..... 
A- ' 
---------------------------------=.'."'--., -i:1::-::: "'. 
BOARD MEMBERs: John R. Tunheim. Chair • Henry F. Graff• Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nei1o,r::-'.::C . 
• ExEcunvE DIRECTOR: David G, Marwell \: f;~·:··, / 
