13-00000 
t---
. . ,. 
and detailed examination of the informer, it finally turned out by the informer's 
own admission that the information was entirely erroneous, and was made for 
the purpose of advancing the informer's own standing w-ith the Central Intelli­
gence Agency and the U.S. Government and it was subsequently retracted by 
the informer in its entirety. 
Representative FORD. Was there any other evidence or alleged evidence-­
Mr. McCoNE.· Parenthetically, I might add a word for the record that the date 
that the informer gave as to the date in time of this alleged transaction was 
impossible because through other, from other, information we determined that 
Oswald was in the United States at that particular time. 
Representative FORD." Did the Central Intelllgence Agency ever make an 
investigation or did lt ever check on Mr. Ruby's trip to Cuba or any connections 
he might have had with the Castro government? 
Mr. McCoNE. Not to my knowledge. 
Mr. HELMS. We had no information. 
Mr. McCONE. We had no information. 
Representative FORD. Central Intelligence Agency has no information of any 
connections of Ruby to the Castro government? 
Mr. McCoNE. That is right. 
Representative FORD. Did you ever make a check of that? 
Mr. HELMS. We checked our records to see if we had information and found 
we did not. ' 
Representative FoRD. What would that indicate,· the fact that you checked 
your records? 
Mr. HELMS. That would indicate that if we had received information from 
our own resources, that the Cubans were involved with Mr. Ruby in something 
which would be regarded as subversive, we would then have it in our files. 
But we received no such information, and I don't, by saying this, mean that 
he did not. I simply say we don't have any record of this. 
Representative FORD. That is alL 
The CHAIBM:AN. Director, thank you very much, sir, for coming and being 
with us a-nd we appreciate the help your department has given to us. 
(Whereupon, at 12:30 p.m., the President's Commission recessed.) 
Thursday, lune I, 1961 
TESTIMONY OF THOMAS J. KELLEY, LEO J. GAUTHlER, LYNDAL L. 
SHANEYFELT, AND ROBERT A. FRAZIER 
The President's Commission met· at 2 :10 p.m., on June 4, 1964, at 200 Mary­
land Avenue NE., Washington, D.C. 
Present were Chief Justice Earl Warren, Chairman; Senator John Sherman 
Cooper, RepreseJJ.tative Gerald R. Ford, Allen W. Dulles, and John J. McCloy, 
members. 
Allso present were J. Lee Rankin, general counsel; Norman Redlich,, assistant 
counsel; Arlen Specter, assistant counsel; Waggoner Carr, attorney general of 
Texas; and Charles Murray, observer. 
• TESTIMONY OF THOMAS J. KELLEY 
(Members present at this point: The Chairman, Representative Ford, Mr. 
Dulles, and Mr. McCloY.) 
Mr. SPECTER. Mr. Chief Justice, we have witnesses today who are Thotnas J. 
Kelley of the Secret Service; Leo J. Gautlhier, Lyndal L. Shaneyfelt, and 
Robert A. Frazier of the FBI. They are going to testify concerning certain 
129 
