M. A. Jones to Bishop 
RE: LUNCHEON WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL 
DETAILS: 
The Director has accepted an invitation for a luncheon with the 
Attorney General on Friday, September 8, 1967. There is contained in this 
memorandum succinct data concerning pertinent items which might be of 
interest for discussion on this occasion. The General Investigative, Special 
Investigative and Domestic Intelligence Divisions have contributed salient 
information for this memorandum. 
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCES: 
•. 
On 9-5-67, the Attorney General called Mr. DeLoach regarding 
the Bureau's pending requests for approval of electronic surveillances. He 
said he had finally made contact with Clark Clifford and Walt Rostow at the 
White House on 8-31-67 and that he planned to meet with Dick Heln1s of the 
Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and General Carter of the National Security 
Agency {NSA) regarding this matter. The Attorney General said Clifford and 
Rostow knew little about electronic surveillances and were very surprised that 
the FBI had so little such cove rage. He said that Clifford and Ro stow, without 
saying so, hinted that because of FBI reluctance to use surveillances, it might 
be a good idea to transfer FBI responsibilities in domestic intelligence to CIA. 
The Attorney General said he was opposed to this idea. He 
said it would take a little time to bring Clifford and Rostow around but that he 
believed the Department and the FBI would come out ahead· in the discussions 
and that he, the Attorney General, will then have a more liberal hand in 
approving requests from the FBI. In this connection, Mr. DeLoach noted 
that it would be premature to talk with Clifford or Rost ow at this point but 
after a decision has been reached~ these two individuals could be briefed on 
a confidential basis regarding such FBI operations. r It was also noted that it 
did not appear the Attorney Gene .. ral could adequately re pre sent the FBI in his 
discussions with Clifford and Ro stow. 
We have confidentially obtained the information that Richard 
Helms, Dire•ctor of the CIA, had a meeting scheduled with the Attorney General 
at 5 p. m. ,- on Wednesday, September 6, 1967, and that the subject of the 
meeting was probably electronic surveillances. 
- 2 - (CONTINUED - OVER) 
NW 3 ~~~-u:321~'.'.li~'.)4 
·, Page 517 
,· 
. '.<.: -.· ·<J~ 
• t'.: t • ' 
