13-00000 
. . . . 
I 
, I 
I,' 
I 
The Honorable John M. Deutch 
November27,1996 
Page4 
c. To the extent that any assassination-related records have been 
destroyed by the agency or any agency official, a full and specific 
explanation of the circumstances surrounding the destruction of 
such records. • 
d. The status of remaining work that you can now identify that needs 
to be completed by your agency in order .to comply fully with the 
JFK Act, including an identification of the categories of records 
that must be processed and transmitted to the National Archives, a 
description of any additional searches for files that must be done, 
and the projected date(s) for completion of these ntsks. 
3. ·Review Board Interview With Agency Compliance Official (or Officials)'. 
Shortly after the submission of the agency's written Statement of 
Compliance, we ask that the Agency Compliance Official (as well as any 
persons who helped prepare the agency's initial Statement of 
Compliance) be made available to the Review Board for an interview 
regarding the location of agency assassination records. The interview will 
be used as an opportunityto resolve any outstanding questions regarding 
the agency's search, including any follow-up tasks to be completed by the 
agency. The Review Bo~ anticipates that these interviews will be • 
conducted in January 1997. 
4. Submission of Final Agency Declaration of Compliance. By July 1, 1997, 
Federal agencies are expected to complete the process of identification, 
. location, and declassification of its assassination records at which time 
they should submit to the Review Board a final declaration certifying, 
under oath, their compliance with the provisions of the JFK Act (the "Final • 
Declaration of Compliance"). Because of the volume of CIA records, such 
a "final" statement may not be practicable at that time. However, we do 
expect that CIA will provide a complete status appraisal by July 1, 1997. 
This final declaration shall set forth all of the information initially set forth 
in the initial Statement of Compliance and shall also supplement the initial 
Statement of Compliance by detailing any further steps that were 
conducted by the agency in identifying and locating assassination records. 
The agencies' Final Declarations of Compliance will be included in our 
final report to Congress. 
