61 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBL--~IONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTA-3 
SACs must be alert in reco~mending SAC contacts that they are not pro­
posing individuals w~10 beca·use of business connections or personal· 
activities _or close association with other persons will be involved in 
unfavorable publicity or become the subject of adverse investigative 
activity, or who will capitalize on their friendly association with 
the S.AC. 
Except where a suitable file is already in existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
A three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained in an·S.AC 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the SAC. Each card is to 
contain: 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telepho.ne numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any comments ;-rhich would be helpful in handling the individual 
e. Date of first contact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
( Show in the lower left corne·r on the front of the card.) 
f. Dates of contacts by the SAC {to be entered on the reverse side of 
the card in longhand). Contacts more frequent than quarterly should 
not be listed. 
g. Any necessary descriptive data 
Each contact is to be indexed in the general indices. The card is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparation, and the notation, 
11See S.AC." 
SAC contacts. located in headquarters city must be contacted at least three 
times each year; those located in areas regularly covered by road trips 
out of headquarters city or located in resident agencies must be contacted 
at least two times each year. 
Advise Bureau immediately when a contact is discontinued UACB. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city ~ocated within another 
field division, a copy of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
should be designated for that field division. Also. advise field division 
of background information re contact. 
Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of S.AC contacts. 
Each office must submit a complete roster of SAC contacts to reach the 
Bureau by the first week of May and November each year. If there are 
any changes in address,- employment, or other pertinent data, such. informa­
tion should be set forth. If there is no change in status, so state. 
From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in m,aking them more "FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indication that such 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay. • 
Immediately upon assuming the duties of SAC, such S.AC should visit all 
persons listed as SAC contacts and in addition leading officials located 
in the field division. 
8 
12-29-67 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 196 
.l 
( 
