13-00000 
- . . 
PAGE 32 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
When you un-redact it, if that's really a word, you find out like so many other 
people he apparently registered for the Albert Schweitzer College for the fall 
semester of 1960 and didn't show up. Nothing sinister or unusual in that at all. 
The question I have is, when you were testifying you indicated that the FBI 
originally appealed the decision to not-or to withdraw the redaction of this 
particular document. You also indicated that the vast majority of documents that 
you have left to review during this renewal period are located at the CIA and 
the FBI in the sequestered section, I assume. 
Are you any unusual difficulties with either of those agencies in terms of 
cooperation as you attempt to get to a public release of what should be 
appropriately publicly released? 
MR. TUNHEIM: Well, Mr. LaTourette, the answer - the question is, no, we're not 
receiving any degree of difficulty with those agencies right now. They are 
committed to this process. They are supportive of the effort to keep the process 
going for one additional year. 
The CIA has not appealed decisions that the review board has made. We've got a 
good working relationship with the people within that agency who are doing their 
work. The FBI appealed a significant number of our decisions, but now all of 
those appeals have been withdrawn. And we've got a working relationship .with 
the FBI that I think has been constructive and professional and is working quite 
well. 
The FBI initially opposed release of the document that I held up and appealed 
the decision because they had contacted, in a general way, the Swiss federal 
police arid asked whether this record could be released, and the answer was no. 
Our follow-up through the ambassador is showing what really this document was 
all about, led to some wiser approach to the particular issue. And sometimes it 
takes additional work like that to accomplish the release of important 
materials. • 
REP. LATOURETTE: And the last question I would have is Congressman Stokes 
expressed the view that perhaps the fine work of this review board -- should 
another review board setting be required in the future to review another 
situation similar to this, that you may be breaking down some of the barriers in 
terms of suspicions that the intelligence community may have about do we need 
to, you know, stick to the script and have a page that has all black magic 
marker on it? Do you find that the lessons learned in this review board will be 
instructive to us as we move forward and think of ways of dealing with the 
release of documents in the future? • 
MR. TUNHEIM: I think that's a very good question. And we have found through 
this effort, being the first group, an independent group outside of an agency, 
to have this degree of control over the declassification process. The process 
