.. .,, . 
,'·.• /. ·sECREJ-_ 
' ·-• ,;t· -
BRIEFINQ PAPER ON THE DOMINICAN REPOBLIC 
I. Situation 
Following the break in diplomatic relations in Au.gust 1960 
u.s./Dominican relations have worsened steadily, and the anti-U. s. sentiment 
of the GODR was brought sharply into focus by the appearance of pickets 
outsfde our consulate on 5 January in protest against .the OAS vote to 
extend.trade sanctions against the Dominican Republic. The pickets 
·bore signs condemning·the interventionist policy_of the u. S. and calling 
for the expulsion of Consul General Dearborn, whom they labeled a spy. 
The Dominican radio and press continued to censure President Eisenhower 
as being responsible for the present state of affairs, while maintaining 
a reserve concerning President Kennedy, apparently adopting a "wait and see" 
attitude, ·although it has previously expressed some reservations regarding 
the President's choice of advisers on Latin America. 
On 26 January the GODR ordered the expulsion of U. S. Vice Consul 
James A. McNamara on the ground that he was matting derogatory remarks 
about the country; however, it is probable that this expulsion was.in 
retaliation and anger over the belief that the u. s. had provided infonnation 
to Venezuela on Trujillo's efforts to -overthrow or assassinate President 
Batencourt. 
It is thought by some informed observers that the outcome of the 
sugar legislation which comes up for renewal in the U. s. Congress in 
March 1961 will be all-important to the.future of u. s./Dominican relations. 
Some say that the Trujillo government cannot last another six months if 
they do not get their share of the.Cuban windfall sugar; and rumors are 
circulating in Ciudad Trujillo t~at if they_ar~ deprived of the windfall 
the GODR plans to expropriate American prop·ertie·s and tenninate U. s. 
consuiar relations. 
II Operational Summary 
A. General It will be recalled that on 24 January 1961 the 
Special Group authorized the Agency to provide dissident exiled Dominican 
groups with limited anns and equipment provided their delivery to elements 
within the Dominican Republic was effected by Dominicans. Immediately 
following this decision we indicated to witting leaders of the VRD 
(BETANCOURT - FIGUERES - ORNES Group) and the FCR (Internal Dissident 
Group wi thwhom DEARBORN is in to_uch) that we were prepared to provide them 
a limited supply of arms and equipment provided they developed the 
capability to introduce same into the Dominican Republic. 
. On 27 January Station Caracas was authorized to infonn 
President BETANCOURT-the U. s. is now providing financial support and 
technical guidance to VRD activities directed by Horacio ORNES, 
SECRET 
