. 87D 
6. 
[ 
87 • SECURITY INVESTIGATIO .• 
b. Subjects not connected with institution of learnir,g 
When subject of investigation is not connected with an institution 
of learning and interview of student, faculty member, or other 
employ.;i.e of ins ti tut ion of learning is desired, prior Bureau author­
ity must be obtained except for established sources. When requesting 
authority, furnish name, position, and a positive statement concerning 
person's discretion and reliability. 
o. U. S. Government employees, individuals having foreign diploma.tic or 
official status, employees of foreign official establi.shment, employeeo 
of United Nations or international organizations, and members of 
armed forces 
If subject of investigation is or becomes employee of U. s. Government·, 
foreign official establishment, United Nations, or other international 
organization, pas foreign diplomatic or official status, or is member 
of U. s. armed forces, advise Bureau and Tequest authority for further 
in-vestigation. -· 
Fraud against Government (FAG) violations 
a. Policy 
(1) Upon receipt of information indicating violation of this type; 
initiate investigation under "Security Matter - Fraud Against '· 
the Government" character and immediately advise .Bureau. 
(2} In-vestigate and report criminal fraud violation (such as con­
cealment of arrests) arising during security-type fraud investi­
gation on same subject in ·conjunction with invest-igation of 
security-type fraud. Bureau will present both violations to 
Department. If security-type fraud investigation is-discontinued, 
handle criminal fraud separately ~allowing inst.ructions in section 
section 47, volume II, of this manual. 
(3) If admissible evidence developed does not warrant -.submission of 
prosecutive summary report, submit results in investigative report. 
b. Investigation 
(1) To establish jurisdiction, it is necessary to prove that form 
was presented to Government agency for action or determination, 
and this should be first investigative objective. If form • 
was not presented to Government agency, conduct no further inves-
tigation and so advise Bureau. • 
(2) It must be established that subject actually signed form by 
testimony of witnesses to signature, handwriting examination, 
or other conclusive evidence. Original of form must be located. 
Thoroughly interview any sources who furnished pertinent infor­
mation concerning subject during any previous investigation and 
other potential witnesses to determine basis for e~ch item of 
pertinent information furnished and i_dentities of ot·her potential 
witnesses. 
(3) Where affiliation with subversive organizations is involved, 
interview individuals who were members of same uni ts as subject 
for evidence of his membership, such as attendance at closed 
meetings, payment of dues, holding of office, etc. If possible, 
develop evidence to supplant pertinent information furnished by 
current informants. Obtain prior Bureau authority to interview 
subject. 
(4) Interview subject and potential witnesses furnishing pertinent 
information under oath and obtain sworn signed statements if 
possible. Exception may be made when interviewing established 
sources, such as current informants, if oath and/or signed • 
statements not considered desirable under circumstances. Be 
guided by instructions b
0
e low concerning interviews with subjects 
of security investigations when interviewing potential witnesses 
with subversive backgrounds. 
c. Legal questions 
If question of law arises as t~ existence of violation, advise Burea~ 
and hold investigation in abeyance for Department's opinion. Depart­
ment has no fixed·policy as to prosecution in these cases and desires 
to consider each case. Submit basic facts concerning execution and' 
filing of document and subversive activity denied in report for pres­
entation to Department, evon though basis for concealment or fraudu~ 
lent statement does not appear to be material. 
20 
4-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
·( 
~ . 
I l 
j 
i 
! 
( 
( .. 
