. . . 
u. a. Senate Select COlllllittee to 
Study Governaeatal Operatiou With 
Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC) 
.He: Testimony of Retired PBI 
8pec1al Agent (SA) Robert R. 
111cbols Before sac Executive 8eu1on 
f 
whieb ■ight coaproa1 .. a aaurce; ia!or■a.tion which aig:bt 
diV11lp a .. naitive 1nft8tiaative technique or -thod.; 
inforaatton which ■1sht diYUlge what had been turn1abed the 
FBI by other Govermlent apnci .. and/or fore1p 1atel.11aence 
aourcea; and inforaation which aight adYer8ely affect an 
ongoing 1nfttltigat1on. It was pointed out to Nichole that 
it be N desired, be cou.ld obtain private COWlMl. He was 
1sited to obtain additional pereonal briefing on tbe early 
aorniq ot May 30, 1975, before hi■ appearance before the 
sac, troa the Legal CouaNl Division and the Intelligence 
Divieion of the FBI~ 
Early on the morning of May 30. ~6, 16.cbole was 
briefed by the FBI, including advice to hia that hie 
amplo,-nt a.greeaent with the l'DI wae being waiYed ·tor the 
pu.rpoeee of the inteniff by the sac to the extent that it 
pertained to JU.as, LffillOD &Del the Southern Christian 
leaderabip Conf•reaoe (SCLC), the orcanisation which had been 
beadecl up by Jting. lficbola wu reminded ot the areas of 
privile&-e and., at hi.a recaueat, was aceoapan1ed to the SSC 
offices by 8A Seymor F. Phillipa of -the J'BI. 
At the l8C o1f1cea, Ric;bola aad Phillipe -t 
Mr. John Bayly o1 the office of the Miaority Couuel of tbe 
eo..1tt" who indicated that the interview would be wader 
oath. 8taff Mellber Seidel then appeared and inquiry was 
aade of bill by Phillipa ae to whether the 1nten1n would 
be under oath, it being noted that it wae oaly then, after 
appear1ag at the SIC ofticea, that Richola and Phillipa 
bee- aware o1 the oath aapec:t.e of the inteniew. When 
lei<iel said tbat 1'ichola lfOUld be iaterviewed in an beeutiYe 
leuioa, Phillipe lllllked that he be peraitted to c:oa1er with 
l'BI Beadquartera a.a it would require clearance froa tbe 
COtfffiENTIAL 
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989£11 Page 200 
