NW 
[ 
[ 
[ 
87G SECTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS 
d. If, at conclusion of investigation, subject is not being recommended 
for security in1ex, set out brief summary statement in appropriate 
closing communication showing reasons. . 
e. Current· summary report must ba submitted to Bureau whel). subject is 
being recommended for security index. If case is pending because 
of outstanding leads, set out additional lead to follow authorization 
of security index card by Bureau and, if approved, to•disseminate 
oopy of report to Secret Service. If case w~uid otherwise be closed, 
place in pending-inactive status with lead to follow authorization 
by Bureau and,. if approved, dis_seminate copy of report to Seer.et 
Service and then close case administratively. 
f. Recommendations for security index should not be delayed becau.se of 
absence of background or descriptive data. Submit recommendation 
-with current report and retain in pending status to obtain missing 
items. 
g. Subjects missing or out of country may be recommended for s·ecurity 
index. FD-122 should include data required for unavailable section. 
h. When FD-122 is submitted recommending subject of Chinese extraction, 
include words "Other - Chinese" under race. When recommending person 
not of Chinese extraction but who has definite .sympathies for Communist 
China, include under "Miscellaneous" follow;i.ng .statement: ".sympathetic 
to Communist China. 11 • • 
i . . If Bureau approves recommendation, security index cards will be pre-
.. pared. Copy of FD-122 will be returned stamped 11S ecuri ty Index card 
approved and prepared, three copies attached. Place description and 
photograph ori reverse side of Geographical card. Cards should be 
filed in your Security Index. 11 These cards should be filed in secu­
rity index as outlined below. Place returned copy of FD-122 in sub­
ject's main file. (offices with geographical breakdown by residence 
and employment will receive ext,;-a card.) . . . 
j, When cards are received from Bureau, check data for accuracy·. Cards 
will be complete except for description and photograph. Descriptions 
and photographs are maintained on separate cards which are stapled· 
to back of two security index cards. File one of these cards in 
geographical section (except special section and unavailable section 
cards).[With the exception of Honolulu and Washington Field Offices,] 
file other in duplicate security index maintained[in headquarters city 
in a state of readiness to be evacuated on a moment's notice.]Third 
security index card is filed in alphabetical section. 
Content·and appearance of security indeA card 
a. Data to appear on face of card 
When complete, face of security index card should contain follo.wing 
information, If any items are missing, case should be continued 
pending to obtain necessary information. ~et forth under each item 
are possible categories in which subject may be classified and code 
letters which should ba placed in appropriate space on FD-122. 
Code letters shou~d appear on security index cards_ received from 
Bureau. 
(1) Name and aliases 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
Full and correct name and aliases of subject 
Race 
White and Caucasian W 
Negro N 
Chinese C 
Others • 0 
(All others, including Orientals {except Chinese), American 
Indians, etc.) 
Sex 
Male 
Female 
Citizenship --... 
M 
F 
Native born NB 
Naturalized NA 
Alien AL 
{If unknown, space should be left blank, but status should be 
ascertained and submitted by FD-122.} 
Docld:32989529 Page 1973 36 
( 
(. 
\_ 
( 
