/ 
, --1 
--------
. . 
1 '.• , 
,,.., - ,. ' 
Memorandum J. J. Casper to Mr. Mohr 
Re: Attorney General's Staff Conference 
Wednesday, April 8, 1970, 5 :00 p. m. 
trying to find out whether in the New Haven Bobby Seale case the Panthers are 
going to try to kidnap the Department's representative whose name is Lynch or 
whether they are ref erring to the Attorney General of the State of California whose 
f name is also Lynch and the Director said he felt it was the Department of Justice 
representative being referred to . 
... 
The Director took this opportunity speaking about retaliatory action 
)
to point out that he was very concerned over the kidnapping of diplomatic officials 
in Soµth America and said he felt it would be repeated in this country. He hoped 
the guard force for the embassies and chanceries in the Nationts Capital would be 
promptly secured as the President is also very concerned about this. 
In further reply to Mr. Walters question, the Director also pointed 
out that he felt many of these college presidents needed to be more firm and take 
drastic action by expelling these students from the school, not giving them amnesty, 
and assisting the local prosecutors in prosecuting these people. The Solicitor 
General indicated that he also felt many of the faculty were also/tontributing 
factor to this problem. The Director agreed. The Director pointed out that these 
student problems in the college or high school can be traced back to the parental 
responsibility. The Director said that District of Columbia policemen have told 
him that many young children are out on the street at all hours of the night and -
their parents don't even know, and in some. instances, care where they are. The 
Director told them of the incident of where four of our Identification people were 
held up and a female employee raped and how the juvenile giant when arrested had 
a juvenile court record of four appearances without a single sentence and how the 
Director had requested the court to tr¥ him as an adult but they refused to do so. 
The Director referred to the fact that ,ve have too many bleeding heart judges 
and told of the success Judge Lob le has had in Montana in handling juvenile subjects. 
-
CONTINUED -
- 5 -
.. 
NW 3 
, Page 535 
