These considerations would make it extremely difficult to 
obtain a 2/J majority in the COAS/oc. 
(9) Seek resolution in COAS under Resolution VIII of Punta 
del Este which would recommend: 
(a) extension of arms embargo to all items of trade except 
food and medicine (Fall back position: extension of 
arms embargo to all strategic items); 
(b) prohibition of AR ships from transporting embargoed 
items and deny use of ports to ships in Bloc-Cuba trade; 
(c) denial of over-flights and transit rights to Soviet air­
craft on bloc-Cuba runs. (Points (b) and (c) could also 
be added to No. (8).) 
Considerations: 
This is feasible and consistent with our objectives, and could 
be ta.ken independently of other steps. 
With adequate consultation and preparation, near-unanimity 
should be possible. Brazil would probably not go along. The actual 
effect of extending the embargo so far as Latin America is concerned 
is more psychological than practical because Latin American countries 
ship little except food to Cuba. But it would show forward movement 
and would provide a useful argument with our allies if it included an 
appeal to -other Free World nations to take· similar .steps. · • 
It would offer a helpful (though not necessary) basis for U~S. 
unilateral steps in•controlling shipping, implementing 107 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act-, and -fi::>1;-urging other states to cOntrol Soviet 
flights to Cuba. 
(10) Intensify through COAS and SCCS programs of recommended 
controls over subversive activities. Seek COAS resolution warning 
Castro that continued subversive activity may result in action 
under Rio Treaty. • • 
Considerations: 
. '--· ._ .... 
The course described in the first sentence of (10) is. being 
presently pursued under -the decision taken at Punta del Este and 
should be continued. However, it would be difficult to get unani­
mou~·or near unanimous support for the warning resolution because 
of.the reference to the Rio Treaty. • 
(11) 
SECRET 
,! ,.,.),,_ ,. : -· 
