13-00000 f ·-·~-----_ .... 
~ . 
i r-
•..:.: • -~ • •: 4' .. 
··~~~-·i·, Y't:~:.~'.t . : , ~ ,, •. ,:a 
8 August 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 8 August 1963 
PRESENT: Mr. Bundy, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, and General Carter 
Mr. FitzGerald was present for Item 1. 
Mr. Herbert was present for Item 2. 
Mr. Baird was present for Item 3. 
1. Cuba - Infiltration/Exfiltration Operations 
Of the 13 Cuban operations approved by the Special Group, 2 are.to be 
externally-mounted sabotage operations which will be subject to 
possible reconsideration up to 12 August 1963. The other 11 operations 
approved are designed· to meet the need for expanded intelligence 
collection activities and to develop viable internal resistance 
organizations. 
• Mr. FitzGerald made a special report o.~ Luis Somoza I s conversa­
tions with exile leaders. Somoza wants the Cuban exiles to begin 
aggressive harassment operations against Castro and indicated that 
the Nicaraguan government was willing to give them a base as well as 
support, including military aid. Somoza intimated that this may result 
in Castro's launching an offensive against Nicarague. If this occurs, 
Somoza would expect U.S. protection and possibly intervention. Mr. 
FitzGerald further stated that_ Manuel Artime, leader of the Movement 
for Revolutionary Recovery, would be in the U.S., at which time all 
aspects of his program would be examined. In order to avoid unfavor­
able complications. with Somoza, two operational changes will be 
suggested: 
a.· Artime should concentrate on getting resistance started 
inside Cuba and de-emphasize armed attack and external sabotage. 
b. Artime should shift the main weight of his operations to 
Costa Rica. There should be no break, of course, between Artime 
and Somoza. 
In this connection Mr. Johnson raised the Costa Rican Foreign 
Minister's question regarding Artime. It was agreed that Mr. FitzGerald 
would work out the language of the reply with Mr. Cattrell, giving as 
See special minutes 
for additional items 
