The Washington Post 
August 22, 1976 
Sla-in obster Clai-med 
': 
Cuban.: ink to JFI( Death 
I
;!: ' ··-------·-··-· 
? ' j: 
• By Ronald Kesslyr .11nd Laurence Stern 
washln;ton Post Staff Wrl!~r.•. 
Long before his recent ~urder, 
John Rosselli. the CIA's undel'world 
recruit in attempts to kill Fidel Cas­
tro, had been privately claiming that 
agents of the Cuban premier, in· retali-
: ation, were involved in the assassina­
: tion of President John F. Kennedy. 
1 Rosselli's belief in a -Cuban connec• 
tion to the Kennedy assassination was 
: expressed through his attorney, Ed· 
ward P. Morgan, to the FBI as long. 
ago as March. 1967, and also in private, 
,conversations with a longtime 'associ-
: ate of Rosselli who· participated in 
meetings between Rosselli 'and the c~ • 
An FBI "blind memorandum" on 
an interview with Morgan : dated , 
March 21, 1967, was included, without • 
identification of the interviewee, in . 
last June's Senate Intelligence Com- • 
mittee's report on the role of 'the in­
telligence community in the Kennedy • 
assassination investigation. 
Morgan told the FBI that Rosselli 
anct another Morgan client had in• 
formed him that Castro became aware­
of CIA assassination conspiracies 
against him and "thereafter employed 
teams of individuals who we1'e dis• 
patched to the United States for the ._ 
purpose of assassinating Mr; Kens 
nedr." • • 
Because neither Morgan nor Ros• 
selli was identified in the Senate re- '. 
port, the significance of that portion • 
of the 106-page document was dis-
• counted at the time it was pubiished i 
In June, before. Rosselli's tlisappear-
ance and the subsequent discovery of 
his body in ari oil drum in Florida 
waters. The Washington Post,.however, 
has confirmed that Morgan and Ros~elli 
. were the sources of the testimony_ that 
suggested a Cuban role_ in:,th_e Ken-
nedy murder. • 
l\1organ's account, according; to a 
summary of the FBI interview .. was. 
that Rosselli had reached his conclu· 
sion about a Cuban connection· to the'· 
Kennedy assassination, - • from 
"feedback" furnished by sources close ' 
to Castro who were involved in the CIA 
plots to assassinate the Cuban leader. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 638 
I 
.;• 
I 
"His (Morgan's) clhmts were aware 
of the identity of some of the individ­
uals who came to the United States 
for this purpose and he understood 
that two su.ch individuals were now in 
the state of New Jersey,". the FBI in." 
: terview summary stated .. 
A long-time associate . of Rosselli • 
who was interviewed separately • by 
'The Washington Post, said there was 
' no question in the slain mobster's 
: mi..nd that President Kennedy was . 
;_killed on Castro's behalf in reprisal 
•. for the CIA schemes against the Cu-
ban leader:. • 
"He was positive; he was sure." said 
, the associate, who knew Rosselli well 
. and was in contact with him before 
• Rosselli disappeared from his Florida 
; home on July 28. ThE\ associate, who 
• docs not want to be identified pub­
; licly, is scheduled to be interviewed 
i this week by Dade County. Fla .. homi· 
·. cide detectives. He was a party to Ros-
• selli's contacts in the early 1960s with 
. CIA case officers overseeing the at-
tempts to assassinate Castro. 
Despite occasional speculation, the 
collective conclusion of all official 
U.S. government investigations into 
the Kennedy assassination-including 
the Warren Commission, the FBI and 
the CIA-has been that there was no 
evidence· that implicated the Castro 
; government' or any of Its agents. 
However, the. CI A's inyoivement in 
. the schemes to assassinate. · Castro 
was not divulged to the Warren Com­
, mission, and knowledge of them was 
confined until 1967 to a small, elite 
, circie of the U'.S. intelligence commu­
_; nity. • President Johnson apparently 
'. first learned about the schemes only 
after a March 7. 1967, column by the 
: late Drew Person, which prompted 
'. ,Johnson to order a CIA investigation 
: of the highly sensitive episode,-·' 
·' Full details of the CIA-underworld 
•. collusion in the plots to kill Castro 
'. did not surface publicly until the pub-
• ucation last year of .the Senate Intelli­
: gence Committee's assassination re: 
port and the ensuing report last June 
on the possible role of the intelligence ------ ·-----
