13-00000 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
Concurrent Non-Academic Positions 
Consultant, Historical Division, Army Corps of Engineers,1985-89, 
Prepared·a book length manuscript on the history of the 
Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army/Civil Works. 
Book based upon research in federal records arid manuscript 
collections as well as oral interviews. 
Project Director, Committee on the Records of Government 
July 1983-April 1985. 
Chief investigator, administrator, and author with Committee 
Chairman Ernest R. May of the final report of a foundation 
funded study sponsored by ACIS, SSRC, and CLR. Creation .. of 
the Committeee was prompted by a concern for the effect ot~ 
technological changes (principally computers) on public .• --· 
records and archives. ~'. 
Historical Consultant, National Academy of Public Administration 
panel, "The Role of the President in Managing the Federal 
Government," 1979-80-. "· • 
Organized and coordinated research in four presidential 
libraries and the National Archives for a group of 
political scientists preparing issue papers for panel 
meetings, and books and articles for publication. Prepared 
chapter for publication on the President and the National 
Security Council. 
Consultant,. Congressional Research Service (National Government 
Division), Library of Congress, July-August, 1979. 
Organized and prepared a report on government historical 
offices, federal records a~d the National Archives and 
Records Service. This report was prepared at the request of 
the Subcommittee on Government Information, Government 
Operations Committee, U.S.House of Representatives. 
' 
Consultant, Congressional Research Service (Foreign Affairs and 
• National Defense), Library of Congress, September 1978-
January, 1979. ' 
Researched material in presidential libraries and private 
manuscript collections-• for a report on the role of Congress 
in the Vietnam War. Also conducted oral interviews with 
former members of Congress and former members of the 
Executive. • 
Staff Consultant, Select Committee on Congressional Operations, 
U.S. House of Representatives, July - September, 1978. 
Organized, researched and prepared a draft report on the 
records of the House of Representatives and the papers of 
Members of Congress. • 
,. ,. 
_J 
