13-00000 
Burroughs B 4700 system 
Control Data CYBER 70 Model 74 
system 
Colit . l Data CYBER 70 Model 76 
system 
Control Data 3150 system 
IBM System 370 Model 155 system 
IBM System/370 Model 168 system 
Interdata Model 70 systems 
NCR Century 101 system 
NCR Century 200 system 
NCR Century 251 system 
Dnivac 1106 system 
Dnivac 1110 system 
Pnivac 9480 system 
I., 
Al 
C0111puter Management Group (CMG) . 
Ltd,, North-west London, England 
Walter E. Heller & Co., Chicago, 
Ill. 
(2 systems) 
Century Research Center Corp. 
(CRC), Tokyo, Japan 
Atmospheric Environment Service 
of Canada, Montreal, Canada 
Ingalls Iron Works Co., Birming­
ham, Ala. 
Educational Information Services 
(EIS), Princeton University, 
Princeton, N.J, 
Datacrown Limited, Willowdale, 
Ontario, Canada 
U.S. Army Electronics Command, 
Fort Monmouth, N.J, 
(2 s stems) 
Radyne Limited, 
Great Britafn 
Green Shield Trading Stamp Com-
pany of Edgware, Colindale, England 
Columbia EDP Centers, Inc .. 
Columbia, Mo. 
British Gas Corp., Hinckley, 
England 
University of Connecticut Medical 
Center, Farmington, Conn. 
Pacific International Computing 
Corp., Gaithersburg, Md. 
Reliance Federal Savings & Loan 
Asso, of New York, Jamaica, N.Y. 
NEW INSTALLATIONS 
The first. of two 84700 systems (which are included 
in a five-system order) to be Installed at c~•s 
North-west London, England center 
(entire 5 computer system order valued at $4.3 
million) 
Providing internal processing speed to keep pace 
with continued growth of data processing operations: 
system will allow expansion without reprogra:nming or 
recompi 11 ng: replaces two Burroughs B3:'i00 s,·stems 
Increasing CRC's processing capabilities to include 
remote batch data processing services via high 
1peed communication line control devices, and offer 
a wide range-of services to various types of users: 
system will be connected to a previously installed 
CDC 6600 computer • 
(s stem valued at. 3 million) 
Upgrading weather forecasting facilities throughout 
the country: system in.stalled at Canadian ~leteoro­
logical Center·in Montreal, Canada 
(system valued at $6.3 million) 
Expanding auto:nated design activities: system wi 11 
operate in conjunction with a previously installed 
CDC 3150 to support CONSTRUCTS, an automated en-
ineerin desi n software ·oacka e 
Linking with university s IB:11 System,360 ~laciel 91 
to significantly expand a variety of data proces­
sing services 
The first of two systems that will more than double 
current batch processing capacity and increase its 
capability to provide for transaction-oriented ter­
minals: replaces Model 165 currently in use 
(systems valued at $12 million) 
Use in experiments involving automated tactical 
surveillance and target acquisition 
An advanced inventory management and control system 
(system valued at $6.3 million) 
Expansion of automated stock control system for its 
gift houses and new Argos chain of catalog showrooms 
General data processing services to a variety of 
customers including several banks 
Assistance in controlling National Grid pipeline by 
performing forward simulations on a real-time. 
round-the-clock-basis: in addition. system will act 
as a service bureau to scientific and engineering 
departments within the Corporation 
All aspects of Medical Center's work including pa­
tient admissions, monitoring patient care, schedul­
ing outpatient appointments, support of library in­
formation and research statistical programs. and 
general accounting and payroll processing chores 
(system valued at $1.3 million) 
The first of two systems whose primary applications 
include project management, engineering and busi­
ness data processing: the system will also include 
time-sharing capabi 11 ty as well as remote job entry 
from terminals in the field 
Faster customer service at any bank branch 
Across the Editor's Desk - Continued from page 45 The Division of Mathematical Sciences of the l'\a­
tional Research Council will administer the program 
and award grants to qualified people from the l'ni ted 
States whose accomplishments in and potential con­
tributions to the field of information processing 
IFIP CONGRESS 74 TRAVEL GRANTS 
P. E. Welch 
U.S. Committee for IFIP Congress 74 
Box 426 
New C8naan, Conn. 06840 
The National Science Foundation.will support a 
travel grant program for attendance at IFIP Congress 
74 to be held August 5-10, 1974, in Stockholm. The 
triennial IFIP (International Federation for Infor­
mation Processing) Congresses have become the major 
International media for exchange of information 
among developers and users of information processing 
techniques and technology. 
are most noteworthy, regardless of the formal labels 
for their specialties. 
Younger members of the information science com­
munity are urged to apply. ~illiam F. ~tchison of 
the University of Maryland, Financial ~upport Chair­
man of the U.S. Commi.ttee for IFIP, said that spe­
cial efforts wi 11 be ·made to support their attendance. 
Applications may be obtained through the Math Di­
vision, National Research Council, Washington, D.C. 
20418. Applications must be received on or before 
December 31, 1973. 
