13-00000 
SECRET 
\ 
SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center 
as CIA Facility 
• (S) Likely Future Compromise of Covert Employees in 
Overseas Assignments: As discussed above, numerous CIA 
employees involved in communications, technical 
intelligence collection, .and human intelligence 
collection train and operate at WTC for the exact reason 
that it provides a secure environment disassociated from 
the CIA. We know from ample evidence that foreign 
intelligence services have as a primary goal the 
identification of US citizens who appear to be ordinary 
public servants or private business people but are, in 
actuality, clandestine intelligence officers. 10 Simply 
stated, the identification of this facility with CIA will 
label any and every individual associated as a likely 
intelligence officer and thus substantially negate their 
operational ability if not place their lives in jeopardy. 
• (S) Loss of Emergency Relocation Site for DC:C: 
Emergency,relocation·sites (ERSs) -- whether they be for 
the President or Cabinet officials -:-- have value. only as 
long as their identity is secret~ The public disclosure 
of the fact that WTC would serve as such an ERS site -­
which could come from a general compromise of WTC as a 
CIA facility plus subsequent visual surveillance -- would 
negate Agency planning in th.is regard, vitiate 
expenditures, and leave the Agency with~few realistic 
options for survivability. We must assume that any 
10 (S) We know from captured STASI (the former intelligence service of East 
Germany) and clandestinely-acquired KGB files that substantial resources have 
been directed at such identifications. Typically, a suspect American will be. 
surveilled for some time in order to identify his or her target and • . . ·: 
cooperating foreign nationals. To identify a communicator is ,one of the 
highest priorities since it provides a possible entr~e to cryptographic 
compromise as well as an opportunity to "roll-up" or identify the numerous 
human intelligence. collection officers who rely on that particular 
communicator to transmit information back to the United States. 
9 
SECRET 
