( 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
SEGTIOH J. 07. .AUD GOl!FID"1' SOURCES 
a. Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further dis­
semination of such information to follow the instructions set forth 
above~ 
107S 
9 0 Also set up a control f'ile regarding this corrective act:i.on, and upon 
comple·l;ion of same submit to the Bureau ?. final letter unde:r the in­
formant Is caption identifying each case by title, character, Bureau f'ile, 
nhere known, and date of communication. 
10. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau.files to ~ee 
that necensary correcti-ve action has been ta.ken in each ins·t.:;,nce, 
11. If neccsszry, other field offices which have received information from 
the informant should also be req_ues·i;ed to submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been made. 
12. It is imperatiYe tha'0 all infor.mation from the informant be correctly 
labeled and grea·i; ca:::·c must be taken to see that this i!l done. 
13. Occasionally, an ex-informant through his speech, writ:i.ngs, or actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
tnforman·b. It i!l not necess2.ry to go back and ch::> .z-e t.he evalu.a:tion of 
the inforraation attributetl to that individual in ti.:e absence of a 
dc:fini·ce indication that the informant furnished unreli2.ble :i.nforrnation 
to the Bureau while he was an informant. 
14. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
T. CLASSIFICATibN - 134 
U • CONFIDEN'rI.A.L SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Ass:i.gnment of symbols 
a. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved. 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnishe"d. 
c. The abbreviation 11CS 11 may be used in intra-Bureau communications 
for confidential source;[e.g., "Richard Roe, CS.") Communications 
relating· to espionage and foreign nation2.lity matters should in 
addition have a character indicating the country involved; e.g., 
IS - R for Russia. 
d. - When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential source, 
the abbreviation "CS" is to appear be:ore t~e symbol numoe.r; e.gq 
CS NY-000-S. 
e. Numbers as!ligned to confidential sources are to be taken from the 
serie!l of numbers used for your security, racial, and criminal 
informants. 
3-. Index 
a. Index cards on form FD-348 like those prepared for informant$ must 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant index, 
racial informant index, or the security informant index, depending on 
the type of information furnished. 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the. sympql index on inform­
ants. 
c. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maint~ined with the 
criminal informant index, racial informant index, and the security 
informant index if the source furnishes informat:i.on of value in t~ese 
types of investigations. 
4. }'iles 
When active investigation is initiated relative to an individµal who 
has potential as a security c0nfidential source, a 134 classification 
file shculd be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to de7elnp the indi7idual are disconti~~~l, Files m1y be opened 
on confiden-::ial sources in crimiual mat --~::-s in a man:-,er identic~l viith 
that for ~andling criminal in~ormant fil~s in the discretion of the 
SAC. 
Docld:32989529 
27 
7-;14-64 
u 
I i ... 
' 
