13-00000 
Robert M. McNamara, Jr., Esq. 
July 15, 1998 
Pagc8 
1. CIA Should Describe More Specifically its Searches for 
Assassination Records 
We consider it essential that CIA describe with more specificity the searches that it 
conducted for records relating to Lee Harvey Oswald and to the JFK assassination, 
including searches done by CIA in the early 1990's. See CIA Initial Compl. Shrit., at 1. 
This is important particularly in light of the fact that CIA record keeping is apparently 
decentralized among various components of CIA. Therefore, we ask that the final 
Declaration confirm that the relevant components of CIA - the DCI and its offices, the 
CIA Directorates (Operations,]ntelligence, Science & Technology, and Adminisq-ation), 
and the CIA office responsible for maintaining CIA's archives - in some inanner, . 
inventoried their holdings for the relevant time period for records relating to Oswald or 
the assassination. To the extent that computer database searches were run by different 
components o(CIA, please confirm that fact and, if possible, identify the names or 
topics searched .7 
For its early 1990's searches, the CIA should attach the 1993 search request issued by the 
Historical Review Group (''HRG") and unclassified versions of memoranda from 
components of CIA that describe their searches or search results. In addition, we 
recently requested CIA to re-undertake its searches based on the discovery of certain 
assassination records.that were not ideqtified by CIA's earlier searches.8 ·we specifically 
requested that CIA Director George Tenet issue a directive to all CIA offices requiring 
them to search their files for assassination records. See July 7, 1998 J. Gunn Letter to 8. 
Harrelson. As part of its Final Declaration, we request that CIA document the steps it 
took in response to our recent request, including attaching the requested search 
directive from CIA Director Tenet. 
,. 1 We understand that most CIA records relating to the assassination of President 
Kennedy were collected and identified in 1978 for the House Select Committee on 
Assassinations and, therefore, currently reside within the CIA-HSCA Sequestered 
Collection being processed. under the JFK Act. It is not our intention to have the CIA re­
do exhaustive searches done in 1978. However, we want CIA to demonstrate, in the 
Final Declaration, that it has searched its various components and that the searches·· 
were sufficient to identify major records on the assassination not included within the 
CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection (it is our understanding that the Sequestered 
Collection does not encompass post-1978 records).· 
8 For example, Oswald's Office of Security file was not identified through CIA's 
early searches. Similarly, we have identified recent documents related to Oswald. 
