13-00000 
TOP SECRET 
Prop, will be used in Cuban propaganda"--. something 
of an understatement!*. '26/ 
* Logic would seemto indicate that if WH/4's princi­
pals could not subscribe ·to the results of Free survey's 
that WH/4/PP might have been tasked to·make a serious 
study of the impact which Castro's propaganda and his~ 
achievements were having on the will of the Cuban public 
to resist o'utside ·interference. In an interview with 
the author of this history, Dave Phillips stated that 
Enno Hobbing had provided the editorial guidance for· 
WH/4's propaganda efforts; but that to his (Phillips's) 
knowledge, no study ever was conducted of the Castro 
propaganda effort; In retrospect, Phillips indicated 
that this probably was an oversight. 27/ 
. ., -
_ On the subject of surveys of. questionable value 
during the Bay. of Pigs Operation, mention should be 
made of.a contract JMATE negotiated with Klein and 
Saks 
to initiate a.survey of Cuba's present 
[Mayl960] economic position that will 
also contain an outline of proposals .that 
would sound [sic] as a platform for a suc­
cessor government to the Castro regime. 
The cost,. which will be borne by JMARC, 
will be about $20,000. This is merely the 
first phase of the projected comprehensive 
economic program. 
Why~ with CIA's in-house economic talent (in the 
Economic Research Area of the Office of Research and 
Reports) and the surfeit of government. economists fa­
miliar with Latin America, WH/4 thought it necessary 
to negotiate·an.outside .contract for a study such as 
indicated is.truly.incomprehensible! That the Klein 
and Saks contract was not blocked at the DDP or DCI 
level is ~qu~lly•incomprehensible. The company's 
• "Preliminary Outline· of Economic and Financial Govern­
ment Platform to Serve the Interests of the People of 
Cuba and to be Compatible with the Intere.st of the 
Hemisphere and the Free·World of Which Cuba is a Part!' 
which was presented in typescript -- was 15 pages 
of platitudes about the best of all possible worlds .. 28/ 
- 226 -
TOP SECRET 
