) "\ 
87F - G SE.N 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIO~. 
G. 
with Atomic Energy Commission (AEC). 
only at Bureau. 
Dissemination to AEC is made 
Disseminate copies of reports for Marine Corps locally to Naval 
Investigative Service Office (NISO)o Dissemination to Defense Atomic 
Support Agency, Research and Development Board and Maritime Administration 
is made only at Bureau. 
d. Status of cases 
After all-investigation is conducted, place in pending-inactive status. 
Make case pending-active 45 days before report due and check with armed 
services representative at key facility or with other reliable sources 
to determine whether subject has access to classified or restricted 
material. 
e. Reports 
See Manual of Rules and Regulatfons, part II,' section 4D, item 2a, 
(6), and section 4M, item 4, for instructions concerning·synopsis and 
classification of reports in key facility cases. Synops~s must set 
forth subject's employment specifying that subject worlcs at key facility 
and statement that subject has or has .not access to classified or . 
restricted material. 
15. Correlation of other investigations with ADEX 
Individuals investigated by Bureau under any classification against whom 
subversive information is developed must be considered for ADEXo This 
includes espionage, foreign intelligence, applicant-type, and security 
of Government employees (SGE) investigations. When irn;lividual previously 
investigated under SGE classification is ADEX subject and is still employed 
by Federal Government or is being considered for Federal employment, use 
dual character of "Security of Government Employees" and character of 
security case in reports to insure proper routingo Use standards prevailing 
for SGE reports. Disseminate as any other security report. If other 
agencies locally request reports of SGE investigation, advise them to direct 
request to their headquarters for referral to Bureau. 
REPORTS ON INDIVIDUALS 
1. General 
Cases of all ADEX subjects must be reopened for preparation of reports or 
LHMs following schedule below. LHM is permissible when information to be 
reported is brief and consists of no more than five pages. LHM should in­
clude appropriate main and subheadings where applicable. In connection· 
with Categories III and IV only, if there is no additional information to 
report since last submission, FD-400 should be used in lieu of LHM. 
Critically analyze each case in light of ADEX criteria each time it is 
reopened and brought up to date. 
2. Schedule of submission of reports or LHMs 
In all cases, initial submission should be summary report but subsequent 
information may be furnished by LI-IM, if appropriate. 
a. Category I - semiannually 
b. Category II - annually 
c. Category III - annually 
d. Category IV - biennially 
3. Origin 
Office covering territory in which subject's subversive activities occur 
4. Classification 
a. 100 - for individuals affiliated with revolutionary or commµnist 
organizations or fronts 
b. 105 - for members of Puerto Rican nationalist groups (or othe'is having 
foreign nationalistic tendencies) 
5. Title 
Carry only one subject in title of each report. Submit separate repprts 
for each subject regardless of relationship; i.e., husband and wife.;· father 
and son, etc. 
42 
• 4-13-72 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:J.2989529 1942 
( 
