13- oqo 
/ i ., . - . 
The Hon~abfe John M. Deutch 
November 27, 1996 
Page2 
The Review Board has recently considered how it, along with the relevant fedeyil 
agencies, can best demonstrate to the American public that a thorough, good faith, and 
diligent effort has been made to locate and release all remaining assassination~related 
records within the control of the United States Government (and that the Government is 
not hiding any such materials from public disclosure). Pursuant to the CongressioI1B:l. 
mandate under the JFK Act to "create an enforceable, independent, and accountable~ • 
process for the public disclosure of such records," 44 U.S.C. § 2107(2)(a)(3), the Review 
Board seeks to have the relevant federal agencies provide a complete and specific 
accounting of- their efforts to locate and release assassination-related records, including 
a full explanation for any destruction of such records. ;-,- , 
., 
Accordingly, the Review Board requests that each relevant agency adhere to tne formal 
compliance program (hereinafter "JFK Act Compliance Program") outfined below and 
• devised by the Review Board pursuant to its powers under Section 7Q)(l){A), (B), (C), 
(D), and (F) of the JFK Act. We hereby request that you undertake the following 
measures by the dates provided (these dates were set in view of the fact that the 
Review Boarq.'s operations currently are scheduled to expire on September 30, 1997): 
1. Designation of Agency Compliance Official (or officials} and statement of 
intent to comply witff foe !EK Act: -we reqiiesftfui.t by December 9, 1996, 
your agency designate an Agency Compliance Official who ultimately will 
be responsible for ensuring that the agency has complied with its 
obligations under the JFK Act, including the identification, location( and 
organization of assassination records and the transmission of those 
records to the National Archives and Records Administration ("National 
Archives"). Although the Review Board assumes that Mr. John Pereira or 
Mr. Barry Harrelson will serve in this position, we nevertheless await 
your formal confirmation. If necessary, your agency may designate 
additional persons with knowledge of the measures that have been 
undertaken to locate assassination records. 
We also request that by December 9, 1996, the agency convey its 
agreement to adhere to the compliance procedures outlined in this letter. 
To the extent that any compliance procedure descrioed below appears to 
be unreasonable or to present difficulties that we may not have • 
anticipated, please explain why and make alternate suggestions to us. 
2. Initial Statement of Compliance. ·we reque~t that the Agency Compliance 
Official prepare, by January 6, 1997, an initial written statement of the 
