III. PROFESSIONAL 
A. Passed February 1968 Maryland Bar Examination - Grade 232½. • 
B. Admitted to practice in the Court of Appeals of Maryland and 
the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. 
C. Member of the Federal Bar Association, Maryland State Bar 
Association, and The Bar Association of Baltimore City. 
D. Selected as one of the Outstanding Young Men in America for 1973. 
IV. EXPERIENCE 
Page 12 
A. Approximately three years' experience with the Bethlehem Steel 
Corporation in capacity of Senior Transportation Assistant. 
B. From July 1968 to November 1970, Assistant State's Attorney for 
Baltimore City . 
. 1. Duties included (a) general prosecutorial responsibilities in 
preparation and trial of criminal cases; (b) specialized 
prosecutorial duties in the field of organized crime and 
official corruption. 
C. From November 1970 to March 1975, Special Attorney, Organized 
Crime and Racketeering Section, United States Department of 
Justice. 
1. Duties included (a) review and prosecutorial analysis of 
reports of all Federal investigative agencies dealing with 
racketeering and "sensitive" subjects in the District of 
Maryland; (b) selection of appropriate racketeering and 
"sensitive" targets for Strike Force handling; (c) direction· 
of investigative efforts and procedures including electronic 
interception and eavesdropping, search and seizure, pro­
tection of endangered witnesses, witness immunization, and 
Grand Jury case development; (d) preparation and trial of 
racketeering cases in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and 
Virginia, including preparation and drafting of indictments, 
pleadings, motions, briefs, etc. 
D. , From March 1975 to present, counsel to the Board of Education for 
Baltimore County through the Office of Law and general practice 
through Joseph Kiel, Chartered. 
1. Experience includes (a) preparation and trial of matters before 
administrative agencies; (b) employer defense in labor arbitra-. 
tion proceedings; (c) handling investigation and complaints of 
federal regulatory agencies such as HEW, EEOC,.and Department 
of Labor;(d) defense of civil rights actions alleging.depriva­
tion of free speech and discrimination in employment; • (e) 
diversified ~eneral practice including contract, tort, domestic, 
testamentary, criminal and appellate matters. 
