·:- ... ·.· 
RE: MALCOLM X -BLACK HAND SOCIETY OF THE WORLD, INC. • 
Source indicated that various honorary awards. 
were granted to Negroes in attendance and these awards 
presented· by the Malcolm X Black Hand Society of the• .. ·-:-­
World, Inc., went to Dick Gregory, -Huey Newton, and 
Bobby Seale, both·BPP members and Which awards were 
accepted by Fred Ha1npton.· Several other of these 
awards were given to persons who the source could not 
identifj. • 
A characterization of the BPP . ir; • ~-ttached. 
Source advised that Carolyn Rodgers read 
some of her poems, two of wh,ich were entitled "I Ain't 
· Seen Nothin' Yet"-and- "Poem. For Malcolm" .. • 
Source identified Fred aampton of the Chicago 
BPP as the next speaker and Hampton expressed his 
great love and respect for Malcolm X and for his Philb­
sophies, stating that Malcolm X had gone to the mountain-_· 
top but had come bac!~ t0 ~c~lize t;-,Q.t i.1e was still c:i. 
"suppressed nigger" ... Hampton stated that Malcolm X 
saw that change was necessary and from that. point in 
Hampton's speech, he gave a typical BPP speech conce_rnin'g .. 
the necessity for ·Negroes arming themselves· to bea f .. _ • • ' 
back the oppressor. Hampton concluded by stating that 
he was a· re·volutionary, with the comments "all power • 
to the· people, al 1 power to the BPP, Pa:nther power'.'. 
• Source stated that Dick Gregory was the last 
speaker but limited hi~ comments to the necessity for 
black people organizing themselves ·in their own behalf· 
and indicated he was in sympathy with the BPP. 
Source advised that because of ·inclement· 
weather, the scheduled picnic to precede the evening 
rally at the Capitol Theater did not take place,. other 
than a few members of the Malcolm X Black Hand:S~ciety 
of the World, Inc., being present to direct· those 
~ppearing to attend the nighttime rally . 
. · . ., . . • 
'A copy of this communication is being furnished. 
to the United States Attorney and U. s. Secret Service, 
both Chicago, and ·Region· I, .113th Military Intelligence 
_· Group,· Evanston, Illinois 
••. 
- 3 -
