t107M-N 
. -~ 
SECTION 107. [Ih .AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CL.~DENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND rOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASS~] 
2. Submit quarterly letter (FD-45lb) to Bu·reau by secure teletype system 
(NITEL). Quarterly letter should include the following: 
a. Name, location and number of subversive groups including identities 
of groups on college campuses, exclusive of those in black extremist, 
white hate or espionage matters. 
b. Symbol numbers of member informants providing coverage who are members 
of organization?. If no member informant, attach addendum and explain 
why you do not have member informants. Indicate specific action being 
taken to develop member informants and date such coverage is antici­
pated for ea.ch group. 
c. Identities of individuals or groups who have participated in or are 
active in planning subversive acts of violence, exclusive of those 
in black extremist, white hate or espionage matters. 
d. Symbol numbers of informants and sources providing coverage of 
individuals or groups shown in Column C. If no member informant, 
attach addendum and explain why you do not have member informants. 
Indicate specific action being taken to develop memb~r informants 
and date such coverage is anticipated for each group. 
N. SIGNING OF LOYALTY OATHS, AFFIDAVITS, AND STATEMENTS 
1. Make every effort t-q. guide .informants away from situations requiring them 
to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep contacting Agent fully advised of 
any situation wherein they might be required to sign such a form. Advise 
Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
3. Bureau will consider as last resort advising another agency of informant's 
relationship with Bureau, together with pertinent facts concerning infor­
mant's activity; however, such situations must be kept to minimum in view 
of obvious dangers to informant. 
4. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau advised as 
promptly as possible, together with appropriate recommenda.tion for pro­
posed action. 
5. In no instance should you permit informant to sign loyalty oath in negative. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1174 
18 
10-15-74 
l 
) 
