13-00000 
. . 
-~ .. ,~~-Y,~~ 
ji~~~~ 
• 
. . . . 
Mr. DULLES. Do you have some more? 
Mr. MoCi.oY. I think I ha:ve got all the questions~ wanted to ask. 
(At this point in the proceedings,. Representative Ford leaves the hearing 
room.) • 
Mr. DULLES. I have two or three questions. 
As you know, Mr. Belmont, there ha.ve been a wide variety of rumors that have 
been spread abroad very particularly with regard to the assassination. 
I • have before me, just received last night, a book just being published in 
England, it hi coming out in the next day or 2, called "Who Killed Kennedy," by 
Thomas G. Buchanan, published in London by Secker and Warburg. I have 
not.had an opportunity yet to read the book. I have read a good deal of the 
background material on which it is based. 
I would like to ask though when this book is available to you, and we will 
make a copy available to you and see that you get one promptly, whether you 
would have the Bureau read this; an appropriat.e person in the Bureau .familiar 
with the case or yourself, and possibly give us your views with regard to certain 
of the allegations here within your particular competence. 
Mr. BELMONT. As I understand it,· Mr. I>ulles, this is probably a <!Ompilation 
of the articles that h~ wrote in the French press. 
Mr. DULLES .. Express; yes. 
Mr. BELMONT. Which. I believe. we sent over to the Commission as we recelved 
them. • 
Mr. DULLES. That is correct. 
Mr. BELMONT. And froin my recollection of perusing those articles, they are 
filled with false. statements, innuendoes, incorrect conclusions, misinformation, 
and certainly what I would term false journalism. In other words, he has 
stated as fact or as a correct conclusion many things which the Commission's 
investigation hils disproved completely. 
We will be glad to read the book and. to furnish you with a general comment 
on it. But to take down. each statement in there and go into it would probably 
result in a critique of 500 pages. 
Mr. DuLLEs. We do not want that. I don't thliik we need that. 
Mr. BELMONT. Where actually many of these allegations have already been 
resolved by the Commission, I am. sure. We will be glad to read it and give 
you a~ . 
Mr. Dm.r.Es. I think that would be useful for the Commission to have, Mr. 
Chairman. Do you agree? 
The CHAIRMAN. Very well; yes. If you find an:, factual matters in there that 
contradict your.findings, we would expect you to call it to our attention. 
Mr. BELMONT. Most certainly, sir.· 
The CHAIRMAN. But otherwise I don't think we want a review of the book. 
That is your idea, is it? • 
Mr. DULLES. Not ·a review of the book, but if there are allegations there, any 
evidence you can factually deny, that would be helpful to have it. 
Mr. MoCLOY. Do you have ariy record of Bqchanan? Do you know anything-
about Buchanan's background? 
Mr. BELMONT. No, sir; I do not recall. 
Mr. DULLES. I w:isb you would check. 
Mr. BELMONT. We can send you a letter. 
The CHAmMAN. We have'the record. 
Mr. MoCLOY. He seems to be very much Ivy League, Lawrenceville School 
and Yale. 
Mr. DULLES. He was at one time, I believe, he admit~ to being a Communist 
at one tltt!.e. He was at one time employed by the Washington Star, I am ad­
vised, and I believe, according to the information I have, that he was terminated 
by the Star some years ago. 
Mr. BELMONT. I thought he had been in touch with the Commission. 
The CHAIRMAN. He came in, he did come in here, and made a statement :which 
we have recorded. His testltt!.ony wasn't taken. He just walked in off the 
street. 
Mr. DULLES. I have one or two more questions, Mr. Chairman. 
30 
