INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY 
Hoover would agree to expand on certain issues 
but proposals for major new operations went to 
PFIAB for support. Clifford was chairman. Papich 
doesn't know what Hoover said to Clifford, but the 
answer on the proposal was negative. The proposal 
involved more extensive and sophisticated elec­
tronic surveillance. This was at the time of dis­
covery of microphones in the U. S. Embassy in 
Moscow, as well as an increase in the numbe 
KGB attempts to recruit U. S. citizens 
does not think COINTELPRO was develo 
alternative to this. 
Hoover's rejection of McCon influence 
CIA attitudes toward the A saw the FBI as 
not being "a clandestine CIA's view was 
that FBI had to reject C roposals as illegal. 
When Papich lectured to CIA recruits he attempted 
to orient CIA to the FBI's lim~ts. On the other 
hand, FBI did not understand CIA functions abroad. 
Returning to the Riha incident, Papich stressed 
that he clashed with Hoover every year and that 
their relationship had declined steadily after 
1966. By fall of 1 69, he saw his value as nil. 
In December 1 69, he decided to retire the follow­
ing_ spring. In February 1970, while winding up 
his normal business, the Riha incident arose. 
Professor Riha disappeared from the university. 
There was faculty and press interest in Boulder, 
Colorado, and a Congressional inquiry came to FBI. 
But FBI opened no case or investigation. In March 
of 1970 the president of the University of Colorado 
came to a CIA man in domestic contact service in 
Boulder to inquire about the disappearance. The 
CIA man called two friends in the Denver FBI office. 
FBI agent agreed to contact Denver police and dis­
covered that marital problems had led to the dis­
appearance. CIA man told the university president 
what he learned from "reliable government sources". 
The president told the press. The local district 
attorney called the president and asked his source. 
The president went back to his CIA source. The CIA 
source then promptly contacted the CIA officer in 
Denver, who contacted the Denver FBI SAC. The CIA 
officer suggested that he and the SAC go to the 
district attorney to say that the original source 
was local police, but the SAC rejected the idea and 
NW 50955 Docld:32281992 Page 16 
Page L!:/or £I 
SEti~.[i 
FILE: 
