13--00000 
Memorandum to ~. Tolson 
Justice Fortas SP9ke of the Black case. He stated that a!ter 
l 
Solicitor General Thurgood Mar'1tall had ineptly and inadequately presented 
. the matter of electronic devices to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court 
had held a confidential meeting among themselves. Although Justice Fortas 
and Justice White disqualified themselves, they still attended the meeting. 
At the meeting lt was decided among the Justices that rather than remand 
the Black case to a lower court, the Supreme Court would set itself up as a 
tribunal to gather further information concerning the usage of electronic 
I 
devices and afterwards make a decision. The Justices, with the exception 
of Byron White, felt that lf the case was immediately remanded to a lower 
caurt Attorney General Katzenbach would, in order to win the case, pick his 
own Judge and thereby attain victory. Justice Fortas stated that some of 
I 
the Ju~tices in the Supreme Court were somewhat belligerent in their attitude 
towards Kennedy and Katzenbach. He stated these men would not be "pushed 
around" regardless of the politics involved. 
Justice Fortas stated that the problem at hand was to determine 
l
how the FBI's irrefutable evidence exposing Kennedy and the Department in 
• their clear-cut authorization for usage of microphones could be gotten to the 
Supreme Court and to the people. I showed him at this point several memo­
. r~da taken from the file, including the New York telephone memorandum 
which Kennedy had signed. He stated that there was no doubt in his mind 
·1 but what the 'FBI acted in a complete, above-board and honest manner at the 
speclf\c urging of· Kennedy and the Department. He then stated that he fully 
•• recognized that Katzenbach would only slant any reply the FBI gave him in 
answer to the questions posed by the Supreme Court. 
Arter some deliberation, Justice Fortas stated that he thought 
. the best thing to· do would be for hlm to slip in the ~ck door and s.ee the 
President. He stated he would tell the President all of the above facts. & 
an aside, Justice Fortas asked me If the President had been aware of the 
exchange of correspondence pertaining· to the Director and the Attorney 
. General. I replied that the Director in all fairness and in order to protect 
l 
the FBI, had definitely advised Watson and the President. The Justice 
replied that this was good, however, he felt that the President would want 
to know his opinion as a result of seeing it from the Supreme Co~t. . 
. He then stated that his plan of action would serve to protect 
11 
the President and the FBI and could spell "back seat" for Katzenbach ai1d 
Kennedy. He mentioned that he would recommend to the President that the 
President should immedi~tely call Katzenbach in his office and tell him that 
CONTINUED ..... OVER 
~ 
