NW 
-=page 
•
• 
.. \ 
! 
, .. 
and therefore should be punished rather than him. The-Judge 
rejected her appeal and her son's trial is scheduled for March, 
1969. 
Criminal Intelligence and Organized Crime While ou_r 
organized crime investigations are aimed at key members in the 
power structure, they have. also .struck hard in the lower echelons 
with progressively greater penetration into the heart of hoodlum 
activities - gambling operations. Fiscalyear 1968 capped four 
consecutive record years in convictions of organized crime figures 
with 281. There are now 789 other hoodlum figures awaiting trial 
in Federal court thus indicating a continuance of the upward trend 
• in convictions in fiscal year 1969. Recent major accomplishments 
in the organized crime field include the arrest or conviction of 
many top La Casa Nostra leaders across the country. Our dissem-
ination of criminal intelligenc~ data_ to ·other Federal and local law 
enforcement agencies has broken the million mark in number of 
items .in the past five years. This shared FBI data enabled .other 
law enforcement agencies to conduct hundreds of raids, execute 
thousands of arrests, and recover 1nillions of dollars in gambling 
funds or stolen property each· year" Departn1ent Task Force 
Operations (also called Strike Force) have been formed in Detroit, 
Michigan; Brooklyn, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; 
Chicago, Illinois; Miami, Florida; and Newark, New Jersey; since 
the original group at Buffalo, New York. We now maintain liaison .. 
with these Task Force groups and it has been recommended that 
we expand our liaison arrangements with Task Force. There have 
been La Cosa Nostra leadership clRng_es in New York and Chicago. 
Department's Manual for use of Electronic Surveillance Under Title 
III of Omnibus Cri1ne Control Bill ·Attorney General has been fur-
nished our views regarding Department's draft ·manual for use of • . 
electrical surveillance p_µrsuant to Title Ill bf 01nnibus Crime Control 
Bill, the general provisions of which cone ern administrative regulations • 
not s12ecifically required by the statute itself. The manual's requirements . 
would impose tremendous administrative and procedural restrictions 
on tlle FBI and other Federal agencies to the point that strict compliance 
might be self-defeating to the goal of n1aintaining discreet electronic_ 
f 
