13-00000 
Exhibit A. 
ARRB 
List of Exhibits 
Statement of T. Jeremy Gunn 
Cable to the Mexico City Station from CIA Headqua_rters, _November'?.?, 19p3. 
This document was released In full after a Board vote in 1995. The second llne of 
typed text includes the crypts (or cryptonyms) "RYBAr and "GPFLOOR.n These crypts 
appear in the "slug line" and they are routing and sensitivity Indicators. "GPFLOOR• Is 
the crypt that refers to Lee Harvey Oswald. This same crypt appears In the first line of 
the second paragraph of text. CIA originally advised that GPFLOOR could not be 
released in the slug llne although It could be released in the text of the cable. 
Exhibit B. 
Letter to the Legal Attache In Paris from the Director of the FBI, October 12, 1960. 
Subject: Lee Harvey Oswald - Internal Security. 
This document w~s one of several records exempted by the FBI because It contained 
foreign government lnfonnatlon. The stamps on the page suggest that the document 
was reviewed in 1 sn and stamped exempt from declassification. This document was 
re-reviewed in 1992 and severely redacted. The Review Board, with the assistance of 
the Department of State, approached the Swiss Government and requested that It 
consent to the release of the Information. In December-1995-,-the-documentwas 
released In full after a Board vote and with the concurrence of the Swiss Government. 
Exhibit C. . 
Memorandum to the Secretary of Defense from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, January a1, 
1964. Subject: A Contingency Plan for a Coup in Cuba. 
The Review Board located several Top Secret documents related to military 
•• contingency planning for a coup In Cuba. This exhibit contains one page from a 58-
page document fonnerly classified Top Secret--Sensltive. The document was excluded 
from automatic declassification and was unavailable to the public In any fonn. It was 
systematically reviewed in October 1989 and the classification was continued. This 
document and many similar documents were opened In full at a declassification session 
In July 1997 after review by representatives of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the CIA, the 
National Security Council, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense. 
Exhibit D. 
(a) Vietnam January-August 1963, Foreign Relations of the United States, Vol. 3. 
pp. 265-270. -
I 
(b) Memorandum for the Record of the Eighth Secretary of Defense Conference on 
Vietnam, May 6, 1963, Honolulu, Hawaii . 
taio10 
