1. 
CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS 
The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, 
revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released 
by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States 
House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 43 
concerning "Citizens Committee to Pre serve American Freedoms" : 
1. "The (Communist). party's front operations in the 
Southern California District today are*** confined to four 
major organizations.," which include the Citizens Committee to 
Preserve Arre rican Freedoms. 
11
The Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms 
***specializes in propaganda aimed at abolishing the Committee 
on Un-American Activities and discrediting the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation. Created in Los Angeles in 1952, the front 
organization is run by Frank Wilkinson., an identified Communist 
who recently resumed the full-time., paid post of executive 
secretary after approximately a year's leave of absence to assist 
in a similar campaign by another front in New York City., the 
Emergency Civil Liberties Committee. 
!!When the Committee on Un-American Activities held 
hearings in Los Angeles September 2-5, 1958, to inquire into 
the nature of the party's recent reorganization in California., 
the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms sponsored 
a series of public meetings to protest the hearings and the 
very existence of the committee. Communists subpenaed as wit­
nesses were guests of honor. 
1tAt this time, leaders of the party I s Southern 
California District were mobilizing Communists in the area for 
participation in an intensified campaign to abolish this 
committee of Congress. How the Citizens Committee to Preserve 
American Freedoms served the party in this effort was revealed 
by (Communist Party) District Chairman Dorothy Healey in a 
report to the party's Southern California District Council on 
September 21., 1958. Mrs. Healey declared that the party preferre:' 
public protest meetings to be held by the Citizens Committee to 
Preserve American Freedoms rather than under party auspicesl:Eca.u:e 
Communists could attend without danger of being exposed as 
members of the party. She also noted that Communists scheduled 
as congressional committee witnesses could not appear beforehand 
at openly Communist rallies without creating the impression 
that the party was conspiring with witnesses to withhold informa­
tion from the committee.tt 
(Committee on Un-American Activities, House Report 
259 on the Southern California District of the 
Communist Party; April 3, 1959, pp. 7 and 8.) 
-~" 3· l 3, - . . 
t' 
APPENDIX . __ ..._...,.,,_.._ 
NW 38613 Docld:34528578 41 
