• 
Memorandum to Mr. Cleveland 
Re: Senate and House Select Committees 
on Intelligence Activities 
• 
Referenced memorandum pointed out that Mr. Clarke 
arid Mr. Moore were of the opinion that since Senator Church's 
Committee was already following the procedures outlined in 
the Memorandum of Understanding, and had completed the 
Committee Staff, it would be inappropriate to furnish a copy 
of the Memorandum of Understanding to Senator Church. How 
would the Senate Select Committee know it is following the 
procedures outlined intthe Memorandum of Understanding if 
it does not have a copy? Does it have a copy of DCID 1/14 
which has been, and possibly still is, classified? 
The FBI has now received a request for a total 
of 122 investigations from the Senate Select Committee. 
This is many more than anticipated with all expenses absorbed 
by the FBI in connection with a function •Of the Legislative 
Branch. In addition, 16 requests have been received to 
date from the House Select Committee. Also the FBI has been 
asked by the Senate Select Committee.to conduct additional 
investigation concerning Patricia Ann Monaco, already employed 
by the Committee, who admits living with Neal Stevens up 
to 4-75, and frequenting a lounge known as a hangout for 
prostitutes. Neal Stevens has said he engaged "in all forms 
of sexual activities" with Monaco. There is also the definite 
possibility that we will have to process many of these cases 
under the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy Act of 1974. 
To date notification has been received from the 
Director of Central Intelligence (CIA) that a total of 49 
employees of the Senate Select Committee have been certified 
as meeting requirements of EO 10450 (Security Requirements 
for Government Employment) for access to classified information 
up to and including Top Secret. Of this number, 17 staff 
members have been briefed on compartmented information and an 
additional 5 staff members designated to receive compartmented 
information. From the above it is not clear that, as stated 
by Mr. Clarke and Mr. Moore, that the Senate Select Committee 
"had completed the Committee Staff." 
It is noted that CIA refers to EO 10450 but the 
Memorandum of Understanding, as approved by CIA, does not 
refer to EO 10450. 
-2-
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989611 Page 143 
