13-00000 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
Asia-Africa 
CYPRUS DISPUTE FLARES AGAIN 
,___--"=~=· -Ftglft"i-r11rbetwe-en---ttre-Gree---~--+----·n-the~:race-01-tti-ese~e;=-- •• 
and Turkish Cypriot communities, velopments, the Turkish G~vern-
which.began on 21 December and ment threatened to exercise its 
as continuing on 26 December right under the 1959 agreement 
~
espite efforts to obtain a cease- to intervene on Cyprus. Three 
ire, is the culmination of a Turkish jet fighters flew over 
teady growth of tension on the Nicosia on 25 December, and 
sland during the past few weeks. Turkish naval units appeared ·off 
he new tension followed Presi- the island. Part of the 650-man 
ent Makarios' presentation to Turkish garrison on Cyprus left 
rkish Cypriot leaders of propos- its barracks to move into one 
ls for changing the Cyprus con- of the Turkish quarters of the 
stitution. The proposals, which capital. Part of the 950-man 
essentially involved removing the Greek contingent then moved to 
guarantees to the Turkish minor- protect Greek areas. The situa-
ity that had been written into tion evidently prodded Athens 
the Cyprus settlement of 1959, and London into a more active 
were rejected by the Turkish Gov- role, and Greek, Turkish and 
rrnment even before the Turkish British forces on Cyprus have 
,:1eypriots had made their views been placed under a unified Brit 
known. ish-led command. Britain has an 
Most of the initial fight-
ing appears to have been between· 
Greek Cypriot police and the Turk­
. •j ish underground, and to have taken 
place in the Turkish areas of Nic-
1 osia .. The situation there de-
1teriorated progressively during 
. ]the week, as the police lost con­
ltrol to extremist groups of ir-
·1· regulars from both communities. 
· •1 A cease-fire, to be supervised 
, 1 by the British, had not been ef-
. i fective as of the morning of 26 
; December. Fighting had also con-
) 
tinued at the port city of Lar-
' naca; the rest of the island was 
"--qtliet but tens. 
nounced it is sending 150 ad­
ditional troops. 
The violence may make lead­
ers of both sides more cautious 
in pressing political demands. 
Soon after the outbreak, Makarios 
told the US ambassador·he would 
go more slowly in pushing his con 
stitutional revisions. Both eth­
nic groups, however, will be fur­
ther embittered--particularly 
the Turkish community, which 
is believed to have suffered 
much the heavier casualties. 
(CONFIDENTIAL) 
27 Dec 63 CURRENT INTELLIGENCE WEEKLY REVIEW Page 9 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
