--
... 
Volume XVI - continued. 
page 2 
SECRET Betsy palmer 
Integrated. Covert Action Program for Cuba, approved by Higher Authority 
in June 1963, provided for "support of autonomous anti-Castro Cuban groups 
to supplement and assist in the execution" of other courses of action. 
Concept was first voiced in Sept. 1962 in Walter Rostow's proposal for a 
"~ack Two" approach to Cuban operations. Parallel to regular CIA­
controlled Cuban teams, CIA •,roiUd extend financial aid and some advice and 
guidance to independent and uncontrolled Cuban leaders such as Manuel Ray. 
Rules of Engagement incorporated into June 1963 program. 
1. "It is the keystone of autonomous operations that they will be 
executed exclusively by Cuban nationals motivated by the conviction that the 
overthrow of the Castro/Communist regime must be accomplished by Cubans, 
both inside and outside Cuba acting in consonance. 
2. The effort will probably cost many Cuban lives. If this cost 
in lives becomes unacceptable to the U.S. conscience, autonomous operations 
can be effectively halted by the withdrawal of U.S. support; but once halted, 
they cannot be resumed. 
3 .. ill autonomous operations will be mounted outside the territory 
of the United. States. 
4. The United States Government must be prepared to deny publicly 
any participation in these acts no matter how loud or even how accurate may 
be the reports of u~ S. complicity. 
5. The United. States presence and direct participation in tl:e 
operation would be kept to an absolute minimum. Before entering into a~ 
operational relationship with a group, the U.S. representative will make it 
clear that his Government has no intention of intervening militarily, except 
to counter intervention by the Soviets. An experienced CIA officer would be 
assigned. to work with the group in a liaison capacity. He would provide 
general ad.vice as requested as well as funds and necessary material support. 
He may be expected to ini'luence but not control the conduct of operations. 
6. These operations would not be undertaken within a fixed time 
schedule." 
4. Article from New York Times, Wednesday, July 15, 1964, bylined Tad Szulc 
"Ray Said To I.eave For Cuba Landing - Castro Foe, Balked in May, Reported 
on Way Again. " 
5, Cable to DIR from JMBARR, dtd 15 Jul 1964. M/V ~e with Manolo Ray 
and crew returned Key West area --~ had motor trouble. 
I 
6." r.able to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 18 July 1964. Ray's latest misadventures 
tI"'Jing get into Cuba mid-July greeted with relative indifference majority 
CUban exiles Miami area. 
7, Wireservice prinout - Miami, Flay, July 24, 1964. Three exile groups 
withdrew from Ray's JURE today protesting that Ray failed to make good 
his promise to enter Cuba to reactivate the anti-r.astro underground. 
Spokesman was Jesus Dieguez of the Revolutionary National Assembly. 
SECRET 
