13-00000-.­
:~ 
Secret 
Issue 
(AIOU) There is considerable concern among HRG 
reviewers that the continued release of hundreds of Agency 
employees' true names has the potential to do unacceptable 
harm to US national security. The harm from release of a 
large number of names lies in the fact that the potenti&l 
damage cannot be measured. This is due to the ripple effect 
that would occur among assets in many places, with many 
liaison services and multiple cover entities. 
(U) To date, 590 CIA employee names, mostly DO, have 
been protected and are subject to review by the Board in May 
1997. Most of these individuals have little or no 
connection to the JFK assassination story. This number is 
much larger than we anticipated when we agreed in March 1996 
to the case-by-case approach. 
(S) The decisions made by the Board at the May meeting 
will set a precedent for the potentially hundreds of 
additional names not yet identified. We have reviewed only 
the Oswald 201 file and 12 boxes of the JFK sequestered 
collection. At this point it is impossible to determine the 
total number of employees mentioned in the JFK collection. 
For example in Box 48, there is a 155 page Position Control 
Register listin all employees in Far East Division 
including the Tokyo· station. 
Recommendation 
(AIOU) That the Agency re-visit the name issue with the 
ARRB based on the following considerations: 
* It should be recognized that there are two separate 
aspects of the·public interest involved in this matter,. 
and.that it is necessary to achieve a reasonable 
balance bet.ween them. On the one hand, it is clear 
that it is now in the public interest to release as 
much of our JFK collection as is possible. On ·the 
other hand, it is equally clear that it is in the 
public interest for this Agency to maintain its 
essential security and cover practices in order to be 
able to serve the nation effectively in accordance with 
its enabling legislation. 
* It is not in the public's interest for one of the 
fundamental principles of an intelligence agency-­
protecting the identity of covert employees--to 
continue to be eroded. While it is not always 
possible to show harm by the release of any one 
individual's name, the magnitude of the JFK release 
Secret 
