NW 
I . .. 
l• t 
, I 
Louis J. Taglianetti 
The Department on.-December 27, 1966, filed a motion 
to remand in the United States Court of Appeals for the First 
Circuit in the Louis J. Taglianetti appeal from the judgment. 
of the United States District Court for the District of 
Rhode Island. Taglianetti, a member of the Raymond Patriarca 
"family" of La Cpsa Nostra, was indicted on Februa:r:y 26, 1963,· 
for income tax evasion for the years 1956, 1957, and 1958. 
He was found guilty on September 16, 1966. Taglianetti 
appealed but no brfef had yet been filed. 
0 
The Department's motion indicated Taglianet~i's 
conversations had been monitored by microphone surveillance 
at the pla6e of business of a close associate (Raymond Patriarca) 
where Taglianetti andtthers met and that this establishment 
was being utilized for p_urposes connected with organized crime~ 
On various occasions between March, 1962, when this microphone 
was installed with tr~spass undet general authority of the 
Attorney General, until 1965, Taglian~tti's conversations 
related to his income tax indictfuent~ None of the information 
was used in evidenc~ or was th~ so~rce of leads to any evidence 
in the case. 
The Department's motion noted that Taglianetti's 
case was within the ambit of the Supreme Court's decision in 
the Blaqk case, decided November 7, 1966. The distinguishi.ng 
feature between the two is the intrusion upon attorney-client 
conversations in the Black case, for which the Supreme·court 
vacated ·the conviction and granted a new trial. The Department's 
reasons for the motion to remand in Taglianetti was for the 
limited purpose of enabling the District Court to examine the 
facts and to determine whether Tagiianetti's conviction should 
stand or a new trial be ordered. • 
The defense has now filed a motion for new trial 
claiming that, "The Government,· having tasted the forbidden 
fruit of its illegal bugging and having w\thheld all knowledge 
thereof from the defendan~, his counsel and the trial judge, 
_, cannot now preserve the conviction thus obtained because such 
forbidden fruit failed to produce a sweet taste.'' Hearings 
on these motions have not yet been scheduled . 
. .. 
- 4 -
.. 
