r 
87D 
(2) 
I 
\ 
SECTION -.. ,. SECURITY IUVESTIGA'l'IONS 
• manpower to review security index cases. 
(e) Names shall be included in the security index only when 
investigation has established and reports reflect sufficient 
facts and evidence to justify the inclusio? of each subject 
in the security index. 
(f) The contents of the security index must be accurate and 
correct at all times. Matters pertaining to lts preparation 
and mainte.nance must be given preferred, expeditious, con­
tinuous and detailed attentiono 
(g) Matters pertaining to the security index are strictly con­
·fidential and are not to be mentioned or alluded to in 
investigative reports. 
(h) The general operation and content of the security index 
must not be discussed by field personnel of the Bureau with­
out prior Bureau aut~ority. 
(i) Matters pertaining to the security index may be discussed 
with duly qualified representatives of other Federal intelli­
gence agencies only on a strictly confidential basis and 
only in instances wherein an individual subject o:t; prime 
interest to one of these services is involved. 
D~termination of dangerousness of an individual 
(a) The dangerousness of a member or affiliate of a subversive 
organization does not necessarily depend entirely upon his 
·-:::~·=-~-'.-_'"per so na.l char.acteris tics, .such as. aggressiveness or a dis-
: ... pos i tion to violence~ .Although these facto_rs must be taken 
. i"nto consideration in evaluating an individual I s pote·ntial 
dangerousness, other factors are es~ential in making this 
determination 0 An individual's dangerpusness also depends 
upon the contribution he has made or is making in ~he advance­
ment of the principles al).d aims of the subversive movement 
with which he is connected or his subversive potentialities 
in the event of a national emergency. Bear in mind that a 
subjept active in a subversive organization ·is not merely 
an isolated individual but is a part of an organization of 
v1hich the purposes are opposed -to the best interests· of the 
u.s. An individual's loyalty to a subversive organization 
and the principles thereof is a primary factor to take into 
~onsideratio~ in evaluating his potential dangerousness. 
Factors indicating an indiv:i.dual I s loyalty to such ·an organ­
ization are numerous and will vary with each -case in degree., 
.Among .. such factors are: 
I. Long continued members-hip in a subversive orgauiz:i.tion 
IIo Affiliation with or attendance at training schools, 
especiallr leadership schools 
IIIo Frequent or regular attendance at organizational ·meetings 
IVo v,, 
VI. 
VII. 
VIII. 
IXo 
x . 
xx .. 
XII., 
and funct!ons • 
Subscriptions to publications of a subversive organization 
Possession of or coutinued study of revolutionary litera­
ture 
Preparation or distribution of subversive pr6pag~nda and/or 
literature 
Holding positions in the sµbversive organization or in 
other organizations of a front character which indicate 
confidence of such organizations i.n his loyalty 
Espousal of a subversive doct:i:·iue exemplified in his acts 
• and utterances • 
Contribu·q:ons to or collections of .funds for the organ-
iza.tion . . 
Recrui tme nj; • of new roemb ers 
. Revolutionary background 
Participation in picket lines in which the subver3ive orgafr­
ization is ~nterested or which it has fostered, Dr in 
demonstr;;i.tions, riots, mass meel;in;t:i, or pressm:o group 
act_ivity fostered by the 01.•ganiz::?.tion 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 901 44 
11-8-55 
) 
... 
t: 
<' 
1 ·! • \ t. 
L' .. " 
