13-00000 
The President's Intelligence Checklist, the predecessor of The President's Daily Brief, 
an all-source daily summary of intelligence information designed for the 
President and a small number of high level officials. 
The Daily Brief of the Central Intelligence Bulletin, a larger and more detailed all­
source publication with a wider distribution. 
The.Weekly Review- Office of Current Intelligence, an all-source weekly 
compendium of events available on Fridays. 
2 
The Weekly Summary- Office of Current Intelligence, a more limited version of The 
Weekly Review mentioned above. The Weekly Summary only contained material up 
to the SECRET level. • 
,,, 
According to the Directorate of Intelligence, only one analytical report on Cuba or the 
Soviet Union, dated November 15, 1963, was issued near the relevant period. The • 
Review Board staff read this report but did not designate it as an assassination record. 
The Review Board staff also examined The President's Intelligence Briefing Book, dated 
November 26, 1963, a compendium of information on major. intelligence issues affecting 
the national security of the United States, which was prepared for President Lyndon 
Johnson. This briefing book was not designated as an assassination record. 
In addition, the DI was asked to search for intelligence reporting on anti-Castro activity 
by Cuban exile groups in the United States from January 1961 - January 1964. The 
Weekly Review- Office of Current Intelligence for April 5, April 12, and April 19, 1963 were 
found to contain relevant information on exile raids on Cuban targets. The relevant 
portions of these documents were designated as assassination records. 
Finally, the Directorate of Intelligence (DI) searched for records based on subjects 
supplied by the Review Board staff. The DI database is searchable only by general 
subject headings assigned from a master list and coded to particular documents. • This 
database is not searchable by keyword. In response to the Review Board's request, the· 
DI supplied raw intelligence reports (not.finished analytical intelligence documents) for 
the period November 20 - November 30, 1963 for the USSR, Cuba, and Mexico. 
Documents relevant to the assassination of President John Kennedy were designated as 
assassination records. 
The DI reported that there were no DI intelligence reports on the following subjects 
-searched ·at the request of the Review Board staff: 
-·.•.-· ·_. 
