___., SECRET 
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files Volumes I~ XVIII 
A:pril 6, 1978 
Volume VI - August 1, 1961 - June 30, 1962 
1. Cable to JMWAVE from Director 
Date: August 1, 1961 
Betsy paJ.mer 
FBI conducting investigation on MRP and Ray and Director indicates he 
needs to know pll.I1)ose of investigation to respond properly. 
Dispatch from Chief of Base, JMWAVE 
Date: August 4, 1961 
SUbject: Debriefing of Father Bastarrica 
Father Ba.sta.rrica recently a.rrived from CUba as a political exile. At a. 
luncheon meeting, he reported as follows: 
MRP formed in CUba a.round 26 July 1960. Organizers were Dr .. t.Jna.lio Fiallo 
Gonzalez, Dr. Antonio Fernandez Nuevo, Reynol Gonzalez, Humberto Perez Herrera. 
All these men belonged to group called Accion Democratica. The name of MRP 
was suggested by Raul Cbibas and in itself' it does not constitute a party 
or group but rather a coalition of several small groups, which were the 
following: 
a.. The 20 May group, led by Manuel Ray 
b. Accion Democratica., led by Dr. Fiallo 
c. Accion Verde Olivo, led by Dr. Rufo Lopez Fresq_uet 
d. 30 November Movement, led by David Salvador (never really joined) 
e. Cbibas' group with Jorge Beruf'f and Felipe Pazos 
f. Dr. Valdez Pino, in asylum in Embassy of Peru and belonged 
to Accion Democratica. 
Fa.ther·Ba.starr1ca 1s • opinion of !a.y is that he had no way of judging whether 
Ray is Communist or Marxist. Lacks ~ua.lity of leadership because he 
does not publically hold to a definite political, social and economic ideology. 
He appears to agree with every person he talks to, never arguing with them 
or opposing them, a.ll. of which shows he has no ideology and makes him a 
very dangerous man. Is extremely amllitous for himself, with great desire 
for power. • 
'.:3 
3. Memorandum for Chief, w'H DiVision, dated 10 October 1961, from[Qvarren s. 
Yauger; SUbject: General - CUban Matters; Specific - Manuel (Monolo) Ray 
·pJ.a.tming Boa.rd of Puerto Rico announced on 9 October 1961 that Ray has 
accepted. position as consultant to that Board. Board is an important agency 
of Puerto Rican government, attached to the Office of the Governor. Has 
broad powers over economi-c and social planning and is active in exercising 
these powers. Rey to receive $12,000 per year. Ray presently in 
VenezueJ.a. but expected to arrive Puerto.Rico within a week. 
SECRET 
... 
