13-00000 
UoJI ,&.'ti :10 ·iur; H: 3~ FAX 202 724 045i 
-6-
Ill. The Mechanics of Declasaiffcation 
Declassification Involves more 1han appropriate standards for the release of 
lnfonnation. It also calls for the establishment of effective mechanisms to move records .. 
through th~ bureaucracy. Once again, the experience of the Review Board provides 
valuable lessons that should be of use to this Committee In considering legislation. I 
would like to draw attention to four important points involving the mechanics of 
declassification. 
First, the "referral process"' is one of the most significant,·govemment-wide 
bottlenecks to the declassification of records. Before an agency can release 
Information In Its records that was obtak1ed from another agency, It must refer the 
record to the agency from which I derived that Information. Although this procedure is 
a sensible arrangement that promotes the valuable goal of sharing information among 
agencies, It becomes a costly and ~ming obstacle to decfassHlcation. Very 
frequently, records become trapped in 1he morass of the referral process. 
The Review Board developed essentially three procedures to help expedite the 
referral process: (a) establishing joinl-declassificatlon sessions where several agencies 
convened at the Review Board offices (or sometimes at another site) and declassified 
records: {b) hand-carrying records from one agency to another and having them 
declassified on-site: and (c) ~--~~-noticeJhatunless-r-eoords-were-reviewed 
by a certain date~ the Board would simply vote to open the records without receMng the 
benefit of their input. In my opinion, any feglslation designed to improve the 
declassification process must take fi'1fD account this referral bottleneck by giving to the 
independent, supe,vislng agency, 1he authority to set enforceable timetables. 
The ability to bring agencies together, such as In the joint-declassification 
sessions, has important beneficial effecfs that extend beyond expediting ttte referral 
process. In our experience, agencies tended to lose some of their Institutional 
inhibitions as they sat at a table wilh each other and discussed records openly. 
·surprisingly, agencies typically sssumedthat another agency would not release 
Information when the other agency was in faat willing to do so. Frequently, It is the 
suspicion that one agency does not want to release Information that Inhibits other 
agencies from releasing lnfonnation. Lice the COMMO example from lllustratlon 1 
above, the perception of unwiDingness to open records is sometimes greater than the 
need to keep records closed. 
Second, the Review Board profilted from the power, authorized by Congress, to 
"direct a Government office to make avala.ble to the Review Board .. ~ additlonal 
lnfonnation, records, or testimony from incflviduals, which the Review Board has reason 
to believe Is required to fulfill its functions and responsibilities .... • JFK Act,§ 
70)(1)(C)(ii). This power em~bled the Review Board to obtain lnfonnation about the 
. basis for classlfications, the existence of records relevant to completing its mandate, 
ta! 007 
