13-00000 ................ _ ... _ . -........... ---
Robert M. McNamara, Jr., Esq. 
July 15, 1998 
Page 11 '· 
relating to Oswald or the assassination. 
As part of its overall representation, we request that CIA attach to the Final Declaration 
its complete formal response to the Review Board's request for an accounting of all pre-
. assassination files that CIA had on Lee Harvey Oswald [CIA-16]. We believe that CIA's 
response to CIA~ 16 has been very valuable and therefore should be included as part of 
CIA's Final Declaration. 
• Also as part of its certification that no assassination records are being withheld, we 
request that CIA represent that any remaining assassination records being processed 
after Septe~ber 1998 are, in fact, duplicates of records already in the JFK Collection (or 
are peripheral documents that have been identified to the Review Board for processing 
after September 1998). CIA should explain, in a general way, its methodology for 
identifying duplicates so that there is a reasonable level of assurance that unique 
documents are not being withheld. 
6. CIA Should State Its Future Commitments With Respect to 
the Disclosure of Assassination Records 
As we discussed with CIA, 0A will undertake certain actions, after September 1998, to 
continue release of duplicate records an4 to release postponed records in 2017. We 
request that CIA, in the Final Declaration, memorialize its commitment to undertake 
these tasks and de$cribe what will be done (as contemplated in '.111 A.3 and A.4 of this 
letter). In addition, we ask that 0A confirm in the Final Declaration that it will place 
any newly discovered or created assassination records into the JFK Collection. 
7. CIA Should Execute the Final Declaration Under Penalty of Perjury 
" CIA's Final Declaration should be made under penalty of perjury. 9 We have made this 
request of all agencies that have searched for records under the JFK Act. The Review 
Board considers it essential that CIA' s representations regarding its search for, and 
release of, assassination records be made under penalty of perjury. 
Because_ of the decentralized nature of CIA records, we ask that the responsible 
9 The Final Declaration(s) would be executed under oath in the form prescribed 
by 28 U.S.C. § 1746. Thus, the appropriate CIA official(s) would state at the conclusion 
of the Final Declaration(s) that "I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is 
true an~ correct. Executed in ____ Vir~a oh this_ day of_ 1998." 
