107P - Q. sr.cTIOil 107. -!CURITY TIHORM.ANTS .f:'::n CONF11)Ei-.AL SOURCES 
P., SIGNING OF LOYALTY OATHS, .A.FFIDAVITS, AND ~TATJc;l1.ENTS 
1. Every effort should be made to guide security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sign or fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants shoulc 1 be cautjoned to keep the contacting Agent fully 
advised of any s2tuation wherein they might be required to sign such a 
form. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4. The Bureau will consider as a last r~sort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the informant's activity; however, such situations 
must be kept to a m:i.nim:um in view of the obvious dangers to the 
informant. 
• • 5~ · Ea::h such situation must ·be carefully con:,:idered and Bureau is to_ he 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appr9priate recom­
mendation-for proposed action. 
6. In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
in the negative. 
Q. DIS,'.':01~:t'INU.l!!D INFORMANTS 
1.. When the s e:r-v-ices of an informant t re dis continued, mark the name card 
"cancelled." Destroy the symbol c-' ·d. Never destroy the name card. 
2. Refil<: the name card in numerical o. der by symbol number in the sy:nbol 
numbe¥ index. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued potential 
security informant or confidential souroe to whom a symbol number was 
once assig~ed later is reactivated, remove his name card from the 
symbol number index 7 mark it reactivated with appropriate date, note 
thereon type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential security informant or confidential source is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been ass~gned, destroy the alpha-
betical index card. • • 
[ 4. .Advise the Bureau[ of the date ]when a potential informant or informant is 
discontinued and the reason-therefor. 
5. Advise tfie Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to testify 
in open court or before administrative hearing boaTds. The identity of 
all cases of security of Government employees type in which the informant 
has furnished information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
compliance with section 69F~ volume III, of this ma.nualo 
6. Rev:i,.ew the informant's file to determine if any copies or s-µmr..aries of 
correspondence between the Bureau and the field relating to the Depart­
ment's interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
available as a witness are contained therein. In those casesin. which it 
·is evident the Department has indicated a desire to co·nsider the infcfrm­
ant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau in each such • 
substantive case, except in those cases in which it is obvious the statute 
of limitations has ru~ or the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does. not app:)..y _t9 se< •• ~ty of Government employees cases. When all 
above action is comp}·· :-d, advise the Bureau. • 
.7. A statement shall also he made to the effect that the measures to con­
trol informants_, set out in 8 below, have been considered and recommenda­
tions shall be made when it appe-ars that such are warranted. 
8. When the services of an informant are discontinued, maintain close con­
tact with him so that the infor:.,;i,nt will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be ·agains-t'"the Bureau's 
best interests.· When an informant is dis continued, det.ermine whether 
he has plans for writing a book, magazine or newspaper article, or other­
wise publicizing his activity. If so, he should be impressed with the- • 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for assistance and guidance rather 
than making other arrangements. If an informant insists on engaging in 
NW-38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1601 
24 
4~13~64 
