107:H - 0 SEC::.ION 107. .SECURITY INl!'ORMAlTTS .A.ND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
b. Whenever a paid'informant and/or source becomes unemployed or·has 
knowledge of impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and 
submit observa·tions and recomr::endations -~o Bureau. Unless adYised 
to the contrary by the Bureau, follow recommended action. Each 
office must assume the respoµsibility of guarding against informant's 
accepting a Bureau payment that would conflict with unemployment 
compensation laws • .At the same time, weigh seriously the possiblct 
need for an informant to apply and accept unemployment compensation to 
pr<,tect his security. Fellow members of the pertinent su·bversive 
01·;:· 'lization may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect 
r.i· to apply 0 Where a state requires notification of Bureav. payments 
tc: informants that would necessitate disclosure of their identity~ 
then Burea.u. payme:w.-ts should be discontinued during the period they 
reoe3.ve unemployment compensation benefits. 
9. lfandling money and property received by double agents 
ao Double agents must turn over to the Bureau any money or property 
received fro~ their principals in connection with the double agent 
intelligence operation. This should be made clear to the double 
agen·l; at the inception of the operation ( consider obtaining a signed 
stat~ment to this effect}. Exceptions to this rule must be specifi­
cally approved "l: y the Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements must 
be made for payments to double agents for services rendered to the 
Bureau. 
b. Any money or property received by a double agent from his principal 
represents possible future evidence and the double agent should 
execute a statement describing the money received by type of currency, 
denomination, series. of issue, and serial number and appropri"ately 
describing any other property received. This statement should be 
signed by ~he double agent 1 s code name. 
o. Money or-property received from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. • 
d. Bureau .Agents receiving such money or property from double agents. 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refresh­
ing recollection in the event testimony is later necessary. 
O. SEMI.ANNUAL LETTER 
A semiannual letter should be submitted to the Bureau by each office as 
follows: 
1, List the symbol numbers ·of all security informairts and corifid.ential 
sources being paid under Bureau authority (not SAC authority) for 
serv,ices or expenses, If the confidential source has no symbol 
number, list his name. 
2. .Also list the symbol numbers of all security informants not paid 
under Bureau authority. 
3. Set forth any comments. concerning the pre:s,.i•1t status of the -informant 
coverage of the office·, together with inf•· ·:1ation concerning what actions 
are being taken to improve t.he security ir ':1rmant coyer age. 
4. As a separate sectio:p. of the semiannual le'[,ter, list under "Headquarters 
City" and each resident agency ail subversi~e or~anizations:b~oken down 
into each division and unit thereof, such as clubs, committees, and 
chapters. 
Under each unit the approximate membership, together with the symbol 
numbers and positions· of security informants affording coverage, should· 
be set out. Where no informant coverage exists or where coverage is 
provided by informants or sources who are not members, such factors should 
be shown relative to each unit. 
Semiannual letters may include any additionai pertinent information re 
informant coverage that may be helpful in over-all evaluation, such as 
informants in·other divisions who are occasionally utilized and highly 
placed informants who furnish area-wide, national, or international 
information. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1583 22. 
5-1'8-62 
