13-00000 
PUBLIC LAW 102-5~. 26, 1992 106 SfAT. 3449 
(ii) the identifiable harm ia or such gravity that it outweighs 
the jlublic interest in disclosure. . • 
(h) FUs FOR 0ol'm{O.---Exeeutive branch agencies ahall-
(1) charge fees for~ aB88Min•tJon records; and 
(2) ~t waivers otiucli fees P!U'luant to the standards 
eatabliahecl by .aection ~'-CaX'? of title 6, Uplted States Code. 
SEC. C.-OROtJNDS FOK POSTPQHB'HPIT 01' POBUO DISCLOStJRE QE 
REOORD!- ~ 
Disclosure or assP1Rin1Ho11 records or ~ lnf'ormatfon . 
in assassinaHon records to the public may be ~ned subject 
to the J,i.mitatlona ofth!a Al:t. IC there ls dear and con.Ybic:mg evidence that- . • 
(1) the threat to the ailll~ dereme, lntelllrence oper-· 
ations, or conduct or fo~ relationa or the Unlted States 
posed by the pahlic disclosure or the assHsJnatton ls ohuch 
gravity that lt outwe tho ,Public lnte~ @!)ucb public 
disclosure would ffi; · • · . 
':" \A) aif Jkawfiirnn.,, ~ wb,oae identity currently ~pro a; 
(B) an )n~ source or method,,whlcb ls currently 
uwked. on-ea.so ~ to be u'Bijzed, b,-the Unltea 
States Govemmeat and which haa not beezi ofBclally dla­
closed, the diaclosare or which would ln.terf'e.re with the 
• conduct or~ence activltler, or : ·. 
CC) 8ZJY other matter curreiitJ.y relating to the mlll~ 
defense, b:i.~ operatlom or con.duct or lorefm rela· 
tlona or the Umtecl Sfates, the cllsclosure or whlcJi would 
demonstrably Impair the national sec:urlty or the Unlted 
States; 
(2)· theapublic diacloaure or the auaaaln.ation. record would 
reveal the name or ldeatlty or a Uvwr peraon. who provided 
confidential information to the United 'States and wowa pose 
a substantial risk of harm to that pema; • . (3) the .public disclosure or the aaaaasl'.nation record could 
re.asonabl)r be expected to constitute an unwarranted Invasion 
or per&0n.al privacy, and·that lnva.aion.•or privacy ls ao substan­
tial that it outw~ the public Int.ere.at; 
( 4) the public diaclosure or the aaaaasinatlon record would 
compromise the existence or an underatan. ding or confiden.tlallty 
CWTently requiring protection. between a Government agent 
and a ~rating individual or a Corei_gn government, and 
public osure would be 10 harmful that it outweighs the 
public interest· or 
(5) the public disclosure or the assassination record would 
reveal a security or protective P.rocedure currently utilized, 
or reasonab!y expected to be utilized, b}' the Secret Service 
or another ~~erament agency responsible for protecting Gov­
ernment offiaals, and public disclosure would be so harmful 
that it outweighs the public interest. 
SEC. '1. ESTABLISBMENT AND POWERS OF THE ASSASStNA.TlON 
REOOKDS REVIEW BO.ARD, 
(a) ES'rABUSHMENT.-'I1iere ls established as an indep,endent 
.agency a board to be known as the Aasuainatlona Records Review 
Board. 
(b) APPOJ.NTMENT,--(1) 'Ille President, by and with the advice 
and consent of the Senate, shall appoint, without regard to political 
·-
"USC 210'1 'note. 
'" USC 2107 
note. 
Pneldent. 
106 STAT. 3450 PUBLIC LAW· 102-526-0CT. 26, 1992: 
Rei,oru. 
affiliation; 6 citizens to serve u members or the Review Board 
to emure and Ca.cilltate the review, trammluion to tlie Archivist, 
and public disclosure or Govemment recorcla related to the asaa.a-
ainatlon. orPreaident.John F. Jreaned.r. . , 
(2) The Preaident ah.all make nomlnatfona to the Review Bo.ard 
_not later. than 90 calendar da,ys after the date of enactment or 
t:b.isAct. . . . : 
(3) It the Senate votes not to canJirm a nom.lnation to the 
Review BQard, the Prealdeat ahail mal::a an. addiUonal!nomlnaUon 
not later than 30 da,ya thereafter. : 
(4)(A) The President ah.all ma1ce aomlnatlons to ,the Review 
Board after conaldering penona l'e('t'fflfflCDdod b,r ~ AmcriWl 
Historical Auodatlon, the ~ or American Historians, 
the Society or American Arcblvists, and the .American Bar Associa-
tion. • • 
(B) U an organization deec:ribed la aobparagraph (A) does not 
recommend at least 2 nominees meeting the quall.fica\:lons stated 
ln paragraph· (6) b1. the date that ls .CS da,ys after the date of 
eaa.ctmeat or this kt, tbe Prealdc:at ah.all colislder for pomlnatlon 
.the peraon.s rccommentfod h7 the other orpzw:a_tlona cleacribcd ln aubp.arapph (A). • 
(0) The Prealdw ma.r ~ &11 organlu.tlon de.sc:rlbed ln 
subparagraph (A) to submit addlttoaa1 nomm.atlona. • 
(6) Penou nominated to the Beriew'Board- ' 
(A) ah.all be ~ private dtlzens, none ot whom is 
present.1,y emll1o.Yec1 b1 e:q. branch ot the Gcnwnm.eat, ana 
none or whom. aball baTO ~ u.r prm0111 lnTOl\'$meat with 
llDJ' offidal In~ Ol" fnqU!z7 cmdac:t.ed b,-1a Foderal, 
State; or local ~ reil.ting to the usul'faation of 
Prealdent.John:F.Eenned,r, • ! 
CB) ah.all be ~.penou orb.Jgh national profea­
.alonal reputation -lntbelr-;;,~ve fields who llire capable 
or~ tho lndet>endent ml ~Tejadgment n.ecesaa:y 
to . the l'ulfiliment of their role ID enaaring~ w:ilitating 
• the review, transm1ufoll to the publlc, and public -diaclOIUl'C 
or records related to tlMt ■1n1rinaffon of Prealdent John F. 
Keaaed.r and who ~ an appreciation or the valae of such 
material to the pubUc. scholars, and goTen1ment; and 
(C) shall lnclude at least 1 profeaional historian and l attorney. . 1 • • 
Cc) S~ CUWlANCES.-(1) AD. Review Board: nominees 
shall be granted the noceasar,' eecurity clearances ln an accelerated 
manner subject to the standard proccc!ures for granting BUcb clear-ances. • 
. (2) All nominees shall qua.lif,-for the neceaaaey security clear­
ance· prior to being considerecUor can.6.nnation. by the Committee 
• on Govern.mental Amdrs of the Sea.ate. . 
(d) CoNFIRKATION HEAmNas.--(1) The Committee on Govern­
mental Aft'alrs or the Senate shall hold con.6.nnation hea.riaga with.in 
30 days ln which the Senate ia la aeuion after the nomination 
or3 Review Board members. • . • 
(2) The .Committee on Governme-.atal Afta1ra shall vote on the 
nominat!ona wlthln 1" da,ys ID which the Sea.ate is In aeasioo 
all:er the con.6.nnatlon hearings, ud ah.all r.iport • its result.a t.o 
the full Senate lmmecUately. 
