13-00000 
Let's look at just one major concern: about 1.3 
million new American families are formed every year. 
Approximately eight million people change their jobs 
every year. About 3.7 million people join the labor 
force and 2.1 million leave it. By 1980 full em­
ployment in the United States will require jobs for 
100 million people, 18 mi 11 ion more than were em-
• ployed at the end of 1972. These, quite clearly, 
are the priority considerations in the minds of mil­
lions who do not clearly understand how the enter­
prise system meets their needs. 
If they and the representatives of large numbers 
of voters do not understand, how can we expect their 
support? 
I would like to review the arguments for their 
support in as familiar terms•as I can muster. 
~~-
The Days of U.S. Preeminence are Gone 
First, let's examine one portion of the real 
economic world we inhabit. 
Of primary importance is the fact that the days 
of almost total U.S. preeminence since the close of 
World War II are gone. 
We must learn to live and work in a world where 
forevermore we will be dependent on other portions 
of the globe for some of our more basic needs - and 
some portions will be dependent on us. The U.S. is 
not self-sufficient in materials, nor does it have a 
corner on the world's technology, the world's inno­
vative ability, the world's marketing savvy, the 
world's production know-how. What we have is a lit­
tle corner of the world, and we must find a way to 
live in it harmoniously with our neighbors, many of 
whom are every bit as good as we are at almost 
everything we do. 
The Energy Crisis 
I hesitate, somewhat, to use the energy crisis as 
an example of this dependency, because I recognize 
that there are those who question whether the crisis 
really exists, or who maintain that new technology 
will solve the problem before it reaches crisis 
stage. I can say at this point that there is an 
energy shortage, if not a crisis; for example, the 
fuel oil allotment for our Minneapolis operations 
has been cut by 25 per cent for January and February, 
and similar cutbacks have been imposed on other com­
panies, our schools, our common carriers, 
Let's look at the dependency which is developing 
in the oil industry. In the past, the repatriated 
earnings of oil companies have exceeded the value of 
imported oil a·nd were a favorable factor in our in­
ternational balance of payments. By 1985, however, 
our needs for oil ~nd natural gas could create for 
us a trade deficit approaching twenty billion dol­
lars a year. 
As no doubt you know, we currently import IO to 
15 per cent of both crude oil and copper, 30 per 
cent of our iron ore, and more than 80 per cent of 
our bauxite needs. ·We must import all or most of 
our tin, natural rubber, nickel and chrome. 
Trade with the World 
We cannot go it alone. We must trade with the 
world - and to trade, you give something to get 
something, with the hope that both traders get what 
they want and need. Unfortunately, we have not yet 
been able to fully realize this goal, and much of 
the controversy over this nation's foreign-trade 
policies revolves around the best way to achieve it. 
There is a strong and vocal body of opinion which 
believes that protectionist measures will achieve 
what is best for American workers and companies in 
the arena of world trade. One of their principal 
targets are companies like Honeywell - multina­
tional companies with substantial investments, em­
ployees and sales outside the United States. 
.,Exporting Jobs"? 
It is claimed that U.S. multinational corpora­
tions are "exporting jobs" overseas; thlit U.S. com­
panies invest overseas to take advantage o_f _low~r 
wages; that imports from the overseas subs1d1ar1es 
of U.S. companies cause unemployment here at home; 
that if U.S. companies were prevented from investing 
and manufacturing abroad these companies would be 
forced to expand their operations in the United 
States, creating more jobs here: that multinational 
companies invest abroad in order to avoid paying 
taxes; that American corporations are exporting U.S. 
technology and therefore are helping non-U.S. com­
panies compete in our own and ~ther countries. 
The Burke-Hartke bill has been proposed as the 
solution to these problems; and protectionist senti­
ment also underlies other proposals which may emerge 
for the consideration of Congress. 
At this point, there may be those who will accuse 
me of making a tactical blunder by even mentioning 
the allegations of our critics. But I'll go one 
step further. If someone could prove to me that 
these allegations are factual, I'd be one of the 
major supporters of moves to inhibit the growth of 
multinational companies. 
The Opposite is True: Making Jobs 
Thanks to various companies, government agencies 
and trade associations who have accumulated the 
facts and published them, I know otherwise. 
I am convinced, thanks to these studies, and my 
experience with Honeywell, that multinational com­
panies-do not export jobs, but create jobs in the 
United States faster than other U.S. companies. I 
am convinced that U.S. companies invest abroad to 
gain participation in markets in other countries, 
not to take advantage of lower wages or so-called 
tax loopholes. I am convinced by these studies that 
imports from the overseas subsidiaries of U.S. com­
panies have not been a major factor in U.S. unem­
ployment. 
To be more specific, I'd like to give you some 
information taken from a survey conducted by the 
Emergency Committee on American Trade, of which I 
am a member. This committee researched the domestic 
and international operations of 74 U.S. corporations 
representing a broad group of large multinational 
corporations. This survey reveals that in the 
years between 1960 and 1970, when these companies 
were increasing their overseas operations. they also 
provided 900,000 new jobs in the United States. They 
also increased their sales from Ameri~an facilities 
- work performed in this country - from $58 bil­
lion to $113 billio~ - nearly doubled, in fact. 
Their.exports from the United States nearly tripled 
in this period, rising Crom $4.3 billion to $11.1 
billion. In the all-important balance of payments 
category, they increased their net surplus of ex­
ports over imports from $3.2 billion to $6.6 billion 
- more than doubled. 
• 
