13-00000 
• 
,. 
ORGANIZATION -~)!£/.3 (±lr~7 ;~ 
~A'-C-.'...j' (r 9 
c. :,.; ,\'1'JON,, L l'HOTOGR,\ l'll lC I NTE1cy11!~r,q:ro~ ✓ f:ENTElt 
(1) MISSION. The N::ltional Phot.ographic Interpretation Center is charged 
with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photo­
graphic intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort, 
furnishing such additfonal support to dcpartmcnf,al anct ,\gt:>ncy intc,rests 
as can be provided wil.hout. degradation of. nat.ional responsibilities, and 
promoting an integrated and coordinated iuterdepartmental etiort in the 
exploitation. ot photography for lntclllgencc purposes. (NSCID .. No._ 8) 
(2) !<'UNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall: 
(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports In support of the national 
intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence Objec­
tives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic detail 
and r.ompt'.ehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever possible, 
related collateral information. 
(b) Provide as a service ot common concern to the lntelllgence community 
photographic intelligence services in support of the national photo­
graphic intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish addi­
tional support to departmental.and Agency interests. 
(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photographic 
data. 
(d) Arrange for the exchange ot photographs and photographic data with 
other photographic collections in the intelllgence community. 
(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordinated 
development of compatible codes, Indexes, and mechanized ·systems for 
the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available photographic 
data. 
(f) Prepare photographic and photogrammetric Intelligence support re­
quirements. 
(g) Provide analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in 
support of special collection and. exploitat.ion requlrements. 
(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of speciallzed 
equipment for the Intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall 
provide Information about such specialized equipment to Interested 
elements of the Intelligence community for their own possible use or 
further adaptation. 
(i) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center 
for photographic intelligence units of U.S. Intelligence Board compo­
nents involved In national and departmental activities. 
(j) Examine and make recommendations to the U.S. Intelligence Board, 
as appropriate, as to any special security controls required for photo­
graphic and related materials. 
(k) Consult, as appropriate, with Individual departments, agencies, and 
committees of the U.S. Intelligence Board on matters related to photo­
graphic intelligence exploitation activities. 
(3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 13. 
Revised: 26 September 1966 (308) 47 
AiiWIHCLI 
