[ 
[ 
( 
87D 
... -....... ,: .: -.. . . ~ 
(11) 
87. SECURITY IHVJirnTIGATION_;:;. 
II. 112.rk canceled across face of e:>.ch card .being rotn.inea 
and file :in the reserve index, [ section B.] 
IIL [Deleted) 
·IV. The above instructions do not apply in the case of 
individuals removed from the security index based upon 
acti vi·ty in the 1'fa.t:i on of ·1s:Iam. Security ind ox cards 
in s~ch cases should be dastroyad, 
(h) Subjects of Chinese extraction 
In any con:munica·l;ion recommending cancellation of a security 
index card on a subject of Chinese extra.cti.on, such c·o1mnu­
nica.•l;ion must conta.i:u the words 110ther - Chinese." TM.ii 
regula.·l;ion relates specifically to those subjec·cs placed 
on tl1e s0ouri ·cy index following a recommendation submi t·l:ed 
in accorc"lc:nce with the instructions contained in sectio11 
87D 7b (4) {j) above. • 
Priority apprehension program (DETGOM) 
{a) Purpose 
Many individuals included in security index because of their 
training, violent tendencies~ er prominence in subversive 
activity are extremely dangerous and would be more inclined 
to- commit or capable of committing overt acts ::i,gainst the 
Uo S. in time of national emergency than would others in 
security indexo Degree of dangerousness of such individuals 
is so pronounced th.at in interest of secrnrity th!;ly must 
be immobilized in the least possible time prior to o·l;h-ers 
in security index. The administrative proceture developed 
to make apprehensions on a priority bas is is referred to 
as the de·l;com ·programo Subjects designated for priori t.y 
apprehension are referred to as _detcom subjects c 
' Individuals in security index tabbed detcom would be 
arreste·d first in event of a limited -but grave emergency, 
•• probably without the arre~t of other security index subjects 0 
In an all-out emergency~ all subjects-whose names are in the 
·security inde;x: will be considered :for ir..mediate apprehension. 
·subj'ects tabbed for detcom should comprise a liard core 
· of subversives~ Each individual case should stand on its 
own· merits • and decision ·to cons;i.der subjects ·for priority 
-of apprehension should be based on subject's subversive 
activities and revolutionary tendencies. 
(b)_. Subjects -to be tabbed detco"iii . 
Each security index subject should be considered for detcom 
tabbing (priority of arrest} who falls within one or more 
~f following c~tegories: 
. ._Io .All top_ functionaries and key figures 
IIe Currently .~cti ve communists or members of any ba.sic 
..... , : : _revolutionary erganiza·l;ion (active within past year) 
• :; ·-:··when thel.'e is· .evidence of oue or more of following: 
.(A) .Activity as l~cal organizers or leaders ~n the 
-~. . organization 
(B) Special training at· Lenin Schooi or Far Eastern 
··,·: .·,_, :. -:-Institute in Moscow 
'{er Experience -as picket captains, strong-arm men; or 
active participation in violent atrikes 6 riots. or 
. demonstrations 
(D) Violent statements 9r strong revolutionary tenciencies 
as shown by their activities 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 174 
62 
9-13-62 
