l 
101:r 
[ 
[ 
SEC:TION 10-e SECURITY Il:fFORNANTS A.WD CONFI-'.rIAL SOURCES 
4. ]!"our-mer.th evaluation of informants no·t paid on B-ureau authority 
If the informant is no·t being pa,i-d on Bureau atl'thoriza:bion, a. communi- . ( 
cation mus·l; be transmitted to ·the Bureau every four months af'.;er the 
date of designation containing the same informa:tion set out above in 
subsect:1-on 3b exoep·l; those items concerning payments. Recommendation 
of SJ.G regarding continuance of informant should also be set forth U-AGB. 
In espionage and foreign nationality oases comment is nece-ssary regarding 
only those applicaole items in subsection 3b. 
5. Receipts 
When payments are made to anyone for information or assistance on security 
matters, either on ·the SAC• s authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obtained in e·very instance in which i-l:; is possible 'to do so. If a 
receipt cannoi; be obtained for a particular paymen·f;, complete circ:umstances 
should be set forth on the bl'1e slip a"l; the time reimbursement is cJ,aiT!}ed. 
a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce the receipts in.evidence 
during the ccurse of a ·trial, the receipts will not relate to other 
documents or files. 
b. Receipts should clearly show: 
(
1) Date on which payment was made 
2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis 
3} Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts fo•· ser-v-ices 
or expenses where these items are pcrtiuent-
(
5
4) Name of Agent making payment 
( ) Signature of person receiving the money 
c. Receip·l;s are not to be wi·f;nessed by another Agent.· 
d. If necessary to make corrections on the receipts~ such corrections 
must be initialed by the informant and not by the Agent. 
e. When transmitting receipts and itemized. s·tatements of expenses ·to the 
Bureau, they should b~ stapled directly.to the blue slip, leaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contac·t with ·!;he Acco fastener punch. The stapies should be 
placeu in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on the 
re.:ieipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Care must 
be taken that receipts are of such a nature tha:t they clearly show 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary material 
contained in Bufiles. 
6. Income tax returns 
a. Informan-f:;s who receive compensation for their services to the Bure_au 
should be advised that such compensation must be reported as income 
when filing an income tax return. 
b. Bureau income should be set forth[on the]]'ederal income -tax 
return, form 1040, as income received from other sources for 
personal services rendered through a private enterprise or 
similar general term applicable to informant's position and station 
in life. 
c. If the informan·t is self-employed and files a schedule C as a: self­
employed individual, it may be possible t·o include his Bureau income 
with his self-employed income from other sources without revealing 
connection with the Bureau. 
d. Effective 1-1-65, in those instances in which the informant cannot 
report payments received from the Bureau for services without jeop- -­
ardizing his security as an informan·t, such payments will be subject 
to a 20 per cen·t withholding tax. There are four categ-orie s of -
circumstances in which taxes will not be withheld. Taxes are not to 
be withheld from payments made {1) to other.than security informan·ts 
and sources, (2) for reimbursement of expenses, (3) under SAC 
authority, or (4) to informants who have been able to report Bureau 
income on their Federal tax returns without jeopardizing their security 
or without ch2,llc-,·,ge from the Internal Revenue Service. Each office· 
has detailed instructions and exhibits concerning the procedure to 
be followed in the handling and control of money withheld. 
20 
3-15-65 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1589 
