NW 
6B 
B. 
f 
I [ 
t 
f 
! [ 
I 
t 
! [ r 
t 
PAR.T II 
SECTION 60 PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
FBI LAW E.~FORCEMENT BULLETIN 
Ttis publication is issued the first of each month by the Bureau for the 
benefit of law enforcement agencies. 
1. Contents 
a .. Foreword by the Director 
b. [Fugitive notices and interesting or unusual fingerprint patterns 
c. Articles and features designed to inform law enforcement officers. 
of new, but proven, programs· and techniques to enhance their pro­
fessional capabilities 
do Items alerting law enforcement officers to d?,11gerous weapons or 
. techniqu~s utilized by the criminal element ] 
2. Distribution 
Limited to law enforcement officers and others engaged in or having a 
legitimat~ interest in law enforcement work 
3. Filing and indexing 
a. In a 66 classification file, bound on the side, and fully indexed. 
Informative matter to be indexed under subject mattero For uni- • 
formity, the Bureau is to forward by routing slip to all divisions 
each month an indexing list of the basic and pertinent items to be 
indexed. Index cards are to be prepared by each officeo A:ny addi­
tional items not listed but considered to be worthy of indexing by a 
particular office should also be indexed. The indexing lists are to 
be destroyed after the field office inspection by FBIHQ. 
b. This file may be destroyed when it is over five y~ars old. Retain 
index cardso • 
c. Current copy should be placed in bookcase, available to all Agentso 
do Deleted 
4o [Suggestions and submissions 
ao Each field office is required to submit three suggestions for byline 
articles from each state within its territoryo Prior to submitting 
suggestions, proposed authors may be approached to-determine their 
willingness to prepare an article and to identify the scope of their 
topic. However, proposed authors should not be asked to prepare a 
manuscript until the Bureau notifies the field office that the sug-­
gestion has been accepted and the article is requested. In contac.ts 
with any proposed or potential authors, absolutely no representations 
should be made which-would obligate the FBI to· any publishing com­
mitments since many factors determine which articles received are 
ultimately published. 
b. In suggesting featured articles, consideration should mainly be given 
to manuscripts concerning proven programs and techniques of law 
enforcement which may be of significa.i~t value to other agencies. 
Suggestions should be concerned with training, research, or opera­
tional matterso Avoid items of a 11newsletter 11 nature and matters 
which have a limited scope of interest in the profession. 
c. Each field office should be alert to exceptional photographs which 
could be recommended for use as a cover for the magazine. The Bureau. 
wishes to project on the Bulletin's cover the best image of law en­
for.cement. Attention--getting photographs showing officers giving aid 
to helpless citizens, protecting th~ weak, comforting the injured, or 
apprehending the guilty are examples of those that should be recom­
mended when they come to the attention of field offices.· 
d. Transmit all material for the magazine to the Bureau under the 
caption: 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research Section (External Affairs Division)] 
2 
5-28-74 
Docld:32989529 Page 1099 
( 
