13-00000 
PAGE 28 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
and could not be fully appreciated. 
An opportunity exists to complete a task which I believe is overwhelmingly 
supported by the American public, and it is important that this mission and 
mandate authorized by Congress be completed. I would like to end with just a 
couple of quotes, one from former Senator Bob Dole, who said in a different 
context, this is not about only who we are. It is about have we made a 
difference. This is a chance to make a difference. And as former President 
Reagan often said, if not us, who, and if not now, when? 
After 34 years it is time to let the public know the facts that remain. To do 
less would be a tragedy and a travesty. As an educator I believe that our most 
important task is to provide our young people the most complete story of who we 
are and why we are who we are. We have an opportunity to work towards the 
accomplishment of that goal. It is an opportunity, I believe, we cannot afford 
to miss. 
In his last speech in Fort Worth on November 22nd, 1963, President Kennedy said, 
we would like to live as we once lived, but history will not permit it. History 
can only be served by permitting the public to see the evidence. 
Mr. Chairman, as a further aside, if I might just have a few seconds. Reflective 
of our students' interest in this event, I have my honors government classes 
perform a project for the model Congress. One of the students this year - they 
could write a bill on whatever subject they wished, and one student who worked 
with the review board last year introduced House concurrent resolution 1 in 
support of the review board, and concludes, after all the whereas's, the 
Congress of the United States firmly supports the assassination records review 
board in all endeavors leading to the collection, review and release of the 
documents regarding the assassination of President Kennedy and supports the 
extension of the life of the ARRB for an additional fiscal year. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
REP. HASTERT: We thank the gentleman and thank the panel. Now, I recognize the 
gentleman from Wisconsin, Mr. Barrett. 
REP. BARRETT: Mr. Hitchcock, can you give us the name of that student so we can 
make him or her an honorary co-sponsor? Might as well get the name in the 
record. 
MR. HITCHCOCK: Abigail Meyer, M-e-y-e-r. 
REP. BARRETT: Judge Tunheim, you mentioned that you were releasing some 
materials from Clay Shaw's diary and perhaps other things. Is there any 
information in here that you find particularly interesting? 
MR. TUNHEIM: Mr. Barrett, I've not had a chance to go through it. We've just 
gotten these materials in the last week through some aggressive efforts on our 
