r'· ,_,_,-· 
(-,). (=') SECRET 60 
·---/ 
JLM - PBM/1 
February 18, 1964 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT ~ ·e ,..., c.._. ' 
Subject: Your Meeting with President Lopez Mateos.}~ 
We do not expect to make any major political decisions 
but want to give new emphasis to the friendly relations 
which exsist between Mexico .and the United States. These 
relations are now at an 'all-,time high. Mexico felt it had 
a real friend in President Kennedy. They feel the same 
relationship·exsists with you but want to be reassured. 
A warm Texas handshake and abrazo when you greet Lopez Mateos 
at Los Angeles would symbolize the continuance of that 
relationship.· '··· '· ,·' 
We want to stress the identity of interests of our 
two countries and.· our ability to work out in the "spirit 
"of"El Chamizal II any· 'problems that may arise between us . 
. Despite the informal atmosphere of the visit, ~e 
should give scrupulous attention to Mexico's extreme 
sensitivity on sovereign equality and Mexico's strong 
desire to avoid any appear~nce of subservience to. the 
United States • • .. 
. L 
• ,: • • Lopez Mateos speaks for the Mexican Government 
and no important decision is made without his approvar;-~ 
He ·has followed an 'iindependent 11 foreign policy but 
knows that good relations with us, especially in the 
economic sphere, are essential to his countr-y:... At .times 
his foreign policy has. been too independent~:,;.for •. ' ·:. 
example on Cuba and iri'commercial and cultural rela-
tions with Communist China. But when fundamental issues~= 
are at stake we have usualiy found him understanding 
and willing to be helpful--con~rolling travel of 
Castro· :agents~ non-recognition of Red China, offering 
help on Panama. C 
' .. : : . Lopez Mateos has chosen his successor, Gustavo DIAZ 
Ordaz, who Will take office in December 1964 after 
elections in July. Power is therefore drifting toward 
Diaz .Ordaz. 
SECRET 
Group 2 
Exempted from automatic downgrading 
by: Robert M. Sayre 
NW 50955 Docld:32205111 Page 2 
ID_ 
---
