I • Memorandum to Mr. J.B. Adams 
Re: Authority of FBI and Department of Justice 
to Retain Private Counsel to Represent Employees 
An examination of our budgetary language by 
representatives of the Administrative Division and this 
Division does not disclose any explicit or implicit 
authority which would qualify as "otherwise authorized by 
law, ... "·under the above statute. The statutory 
authority for provision of private counsel is contained in 
Title28, United States Code, Section 515, which gives the 
Attorney General the authority to appoint and pay special 
attorneys. However, this authority is circumscribed by the 
statement that these attorneys "may, when specifically 
directed by the Attorney General, conduct any kind of legal 
proceeding, civil or criminal, including grand jury pro­
ceedings and proceedings before committing magistrates, 
which United States Attorneys are authorized by law to 
\)
conduct. . . . 11 It is evident then that this authority 
pertains only to proceedings held within the judicial 
system, not to hearings held before a legislative body. 
Such a hearing is not a 11legal proceeding" and is not 
one "which United States Attorneys are authorized by 
law to conduct. . . . " 
In the event that employees need representation 
in a legal proceeding and the Department believes that a 
potential conflict of interest would prevent it from 
providing counsel, outside counsel could be appointed and 
paid under the statute up to the monetary limits fixed. 
Whether the Department would allow the individual employee 
to designate or select the outside counsel would be a 
matter of Departmental policy but we see no reason why 
such an individual selection would not ordinarily be 
approved. 
We are aware that the Central Intelligence 
Agency (CIA) has recently engaged the law firm of Arnold 
and Porter and that Mr. Mitchell Rogovin of that firm 
has been designated as the individual attorney to represent 
I 
that agency.· Inquiry with CIA has determined that the 
authority relied on for this action is Title 50, United 
States Code, Section 40~j, which states: 
- 2 - \J 
(CONTINUED - OVER) 
NW 31B2fi Docld:32989627 29 
