( ... 
C. 
( 
PART II· 6K 
SEC. 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND.BLIC CONTACTS 
Iriclud~d in the index may be individuals in Government, business, or 
industry. Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are un~ 
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information. Set ur, 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. An index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having·approved office space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely·retained in a.locked, steel file cabinet. Cards shall .. be 
kept as in the field office. The cards shall pertain oniy to the 
territory covered; under such circumstances there shall be no duplicate 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete. 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not remove 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information index. 
2. Files 
Do not make up files or write memoran~a for the preparation of sources 
of information. 
3 •. Security and racial sources of information 
[ Every six months a letter of justification[(FD-401)]should be submitted 
to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and racial 
L 
[ sources of information. [Follow instructions set out in]section 130G, item 
2b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions. If the security or racial 
source of information is not being paid on Bureau authorization and is 
being used regularly, the Agent handling the source of information must 
4. 
L. SAC 
1. 
2. 
3. 
dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certifi­
cation as to stability a-rid reliability as required by payment let·l;ers •. 
Gifts should ~ot be given to sources since such actions might be mis­
construed. 
CONTACTS 
SAC contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, can 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assista~ce to the FBI upon the request of the SAC. • 
A complete file review must be made and an FD-9 submitted on each contact 
(file review on spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary ·unless 
special circumstances prevail). . . . 
SAC contacts must be approved by ~he Bureau. Request this approval by 
letter to the Bureau captioned "---=--"<'.' SAC Contact." Mark the letter 
for the at1entio~ of the Crime Records Division. Use the following sub­
headings in the order given: 
a. Descriution of proposed SAC contact 
b. Servic~s this contact can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Results of Identification Division check 
.f. Derogatory information 
g. Recommendation of SAC 
Submit an original and two copies, but one of the copies shouid consist 
only of the first page of the communication. If the SAC contact is 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to the field. If the contact is not approved, a letter is to be submittwd 
to the field stating why the individual cannot be used as an SAC contact. 
7 
7-28-69 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 280 
