[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
107M -· N SECTION 1r- SECURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONf ENTI.A.L SOURCES 
• . ·e 
document in the pertinent informant file and is not to be serialized. 
If a particular section of this form is not applicable, such should be 
noted thereon. If it later becomes applicable, the serial number can be 
noted at that time. 
12. Bulky material submitted by informant 
Where informant or source submits ·bulky material other than a statement 
and same pertains to a specific investigative matter, bulky material may 
be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of execute'd 
form FD-3O6 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
set forth' on form FD-3O6. In such a case, the original form FD-3O6 or 
channelizing memorandum sh.ould be filed in the subfile of the informant 
or source and the file and serial number where- the bulky materia,1 is 
located should be noted thereon. • 
N. PAYMEI-iTS TO INFORM.A.MTS AND HANDLING MONEY RECEIVED 
• 1. No gifts to informants 
~ 
• 2. 
3. 
a. Gifts should not be given to informants since such actions might be 
misconstrued. 
b. Relationship between .A.gents and informants shall bE! maintained on 
a businesslike basis. 
c. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies 
and request assistance regarding payments of money, gifts, or products 
of such companies to informants. 
. S.A.C authority to pay informants . 
[For instructions regarding payments under SAC authority, refer to section 
13OG, item 1, of this manual since comparable instructions apply to security 
informants and sources as those set forth for racial informants and sources.] 
Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authoriza­
tion. 
b. In requesting[authorization for payments., a justification must be fur­
nished Bureau .. For this purpose, use form FD-4O1 and execute in accord­
anc~ with instructions for racial informants and sources contained in 
section 13OG, item 2b, of this manual. Justification for payments, 
of course, is based on activity of informant, potential informant, or· 
source in matters having primarily a security rather than racial in­
terest. In espionage and foreign nationality matters use subheadings, 
where applicable.] 
18 
7.;..14-69 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1289 
( 
