r, r;,,.. 
l I 
.; 2 -
,._. . .. 
I .\ 
I 
1. The structure; performance, and utility of 
• government operations with respect to 
intelligence activities; 
2. Whether certain policies or practices are or 
are not illegal, unethical~ or otherwise 
improper; ' 
3. Whether there has or has not been excessive 
duplication or inadequate coordination.between 
and among intelligence agencies and, more 
.generally, the efficiency of intelligence 
activitj_es; and 
4. Whether there has or has not been adequate 
-- internal and external control and oversight 
over the policies and practices of intelli­
gence agencies. 
-· In attempting to find the answers to these fundamental 
questions, the Committee is proceeding in two ways. First, we 
are examining intelligence functions broadly as instruments 
of government policy, giying attention to the au'thor•.i.i.;y fo-r 
particular functions, the problems which intelligence activi­
ties are designed to solve, the procedures by which intelli­
gence activities are and have been p~oposed, approved, 
executed, .evaluated, and terminated, the range and scope of 
the activities utilized to achieve intelligence objectives, 
and the propriety and utility of the activities undertaken. 
§~cond, we will examine ·in depth·certain specific subjects 
within the broad topics of investigation. (We would, of 
course, welcome your suggestion of other cases that would 
give added insight into intelligence matters under your 
jurisdiction.) These specific subjects for investigation 
are not intended to limit the scope contained in the more 
The annexed notifications spell these matters out in 
greater detail. In addition, they ask certain ~pecific questions, 
set forth certain pieviously requested documents not yet received, 
request additional documents,* and, in some cases, ask for the • 
names and present addresses of persons who have held certain 
* These specific requests are not, of course, intended to 
limit the agreenent to come forward with all relevant 
information and material, including-documents, whether or 
-,not they i1a,,e be0:11 brouGht i;o. the Corr~mi.ttee' s attentj.on or 
have been specifically requested by the Committee. 
