•C IN NARCOTICS 
,,eant de 1a Llana, will :-:-, 
, Police Department. 1 
·ars and attached to the 
the ~riminal intelligence 
'.ice service 1 
.ts 9 years ago, when I 
, :i statement, a prepared 
,.~, and I see it has several 
l it to the committee. 
rnceed. 
i" the subcommittee, I um 
11t of the city of Tampa, 
Department for the past 
,1ent for the past 4 y~ars. 
,; inspector of detectives. 
\cademy of the Fed~ral 
-Tampa Bay Are:. Ch!efs 
. ,il Association of Cl11efs 
, na who, at my direction, 
-liO'ence m1it in February 
,t "'time. Sergean~ de la 
rman of the Florida In-
1·oordinates information 
• <1t the State of Florida. 
dilio-ent work anrl knowl­
·1eh ~f the foundation for 
inO' accompanied also by 
io~ of the Orlando Police 
, attendinir the National 
; ip;ation. He has beer~ a 
.i11ce 1951, and a detective 
iliar with organized gam­
rnd I believe his presenta-
111 to this inquiry. . 
"re you today. I ~ehe-ye 
11 ized crime operaJ1ons m 
,lie realize the seriousness 
need for further Federal 
dy expanded beyond. tl~e 
:1tain, suppress and ehm1~ 
population, "ho are con­
our community. U~for­
of citizens have aclueved 
ORGANIZED CRH.IE AND ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS 521 
a notoriety greatly disproportionate to their numbers, because of their 
continuous activity in criminal an<l racketeering enterprises. The 
!.Jeople of our city refer to this group as "the Sicilian underworld" or 
'the Mafia." 
Qur growing concern with this criminal group was crystallized in 
HJ56 when a Hillsborough County grand jury was empaneled in 
Tampa to investigate and determme the truth of allegations that 
the l\fofia ,ms then operating in Tampa. The pertinent part of that 
grand jury's report stated: • 
• • • there are s<>me individuals who believe that a Mafia or Black Hand 
exists :intl operates in this community, but they are in the minority. • • • 
The eYidcnce presented, the ,olume of written material examined, and wit­
nesses interviews point to the existence in this community of an organized crime 
clrment who:-e methods of operation are similar to the pattern of the Sicilian 
Mafia as we understand it. • • • 
The CnAno1A-:-.r. Chief, let me ask you, prior to this development. 
before the grand jury, before the grand jury ma.de this finding, were 
you the law enforcement officials or in the police department i 
1\fr. I3nowN. No, sir. 
The CHAIRllL\N. "\Vere you suspicious that such an organization 
existed in your city? • 
.?Irr. HnowN. Oh, yes; law enforcement has been a.ware that this has 
been there. 
The CIIArn11r,\N. There was something, you fe1t confident, but you 
were unable to bring it out in concrete proof; is tlrnt correct? 
J\fr. BnowN. That is correct. • 
The C11A11DrAN. So you had been trying to combat it without being 
able to get it out in the open? • 
Mr. BnowN. That is exactly right. 
The CnArnllIAN. All right. Proceed. 
Mr. Dnow::-. (reading) : 
• • • our records indicate that the vast mnjority of our unsolved crimes stem 
from underworld activi~y involving persons of Ridlian or Italian ancestry • • • 
The CnArnMAN. "\Ve had some startling information here the other 
day from the Chicago chief of police with respect to some 976 
murders, gland style, that had been committed over a period of 
years, and y 2 of them hn.d been solved. That is, officially solved by 
court dctcrm ination or court action. 
Mr. DnowN. That is typical. 
The C11ArnllL\N. "\Vhat is the ratio in your community, if you can 
1,!iH~ us some idea, about it.? 
Mr. Bnow::-.. I will bring that out in my statement, but it is just 
like Chicago. 
The C1r.\IJDIAN. Something along tlrnt line? 
:\fr. BuowN. Yes, sir. 
Tlir. CITArn,rAN. That. struck me :-is one of the most frightening 
developments of i.nfonn:1tion that I have heard regarding crime. I 
.inst couldn't believe that !)iG murders, and apparently just murder 
in the first-degree fashion, conlcl he committed in an are.a like :Met­
ropolitan Chicago over :1 perio(l of years, and only 2 of them could 
be solved. It thoroughly demonstrates to me the great menace and 
the danger of org:rnize<l rnohs f'ommitting crime. 
Yon :say: ""\Vell, they prolmbly killed each other pretty much." 
That. miiy be tnH', but 1he,v kill eaeh other because of the extortionate 
50955 Docld:32423630 Page 661 
! t 
',j 
