·87D 
' . : --
... · ... 
. · =:. ::.:=::.~~ :~. \ ". 
·,::.. .. : -·· 
• H.,. oOO ~ •-
........ ·-· ·-
. NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
' I ,, 
i 
s·~•ou 87. SECURITY INVESTIG.'\TIO. 
Thus, in discharging our basic responsibilities in the internal 
security field, it is imperative that information concerning member· 
of the military services be referred immoaiately ~o the anpro­
priat.e branch having primary responsihili ty for its personnel. 
This procedure is mandatory, even though the security aspects of 
t~e data have not been fully resolved or verified. It should· 
be specifically pointed out in such instances that the infor-
mation has not been verified. 
Section 87D 5b of this manual instructs that if it is ~etermined 
a security subject is a member of the armed services the investi­
gation must at that point be discontinued immediately and reported 
to the Burc~.u. The basis for such instruction lies. in the fact 
that the subjtct is no longer within our investigative juris­
diction. In addition, dissemination of pertinent reports must 
be made locally in the field to the appropriate intelligence 
agen:cy. 
Our responsibility with regard to military personnel is not con­
fined to those who have been the subjects of security investi­
gations. It extends to any subversive derogatory data developed 
agains:I; a member of tlie armed services during any of our investi­
gations of either individuals or organizations. For instance, 
if it is determined that a-member of the armed forces has been 
in contact with a.security subject or wjth any individual or group 
raising security implications, th~ appropriate intelligence 
service should be immediately advised locally. This should be 
done even though the security aspect;°s of the contact have not been 
resolved, so that the milit•ry services may be in a position to dis­
charge their .responsibilitieso It must be pointed out to them 
specifically in such instances that the data are u~verified~ 
and pertinent developments must be transmitted to them thereaftc:c 
immediately upon receipto 
Section 87D 6b (1) (h) provides that during the course of security 
investigations it must be determined whether the subjec·i;s have 
any close relatives in the armed forces. Our responsibilities 
require that such ass9ciations be called to the attention of the 
~ppropriate military intelligence services, together with per­
tinent data, including reports, on the security subjects involved. 
The evaluation of these associations lies entirely.within the.• 
p-rovince of the intelligence ·service·s, but for the reasons st"ated 
previously herein it is incumbent upon the Bureau to disseminate 
-this information immediately upon receipte 
Any subversive contaats or information developed concernine; 
military personnel must be set out in a letter to the Bureau, 
together with a statement as to the local d·issemination made in 
the fieldc Such letter should be accompanied hy a[letterhe~d) 
1:1emorandum setting out with pa:rticularity the subversive data 
in a form entirely.suitable for dissemination. 
669 82 
,, 
( 
;· 
:-,. ,,, 
;Jr! 
• :~t 
" ·~ .,, 
.';;. 
