4. AVAILABILITY OF APPLICANT 
a. Have you previously submitted an application for employment with the Federal e, If appointed to a clerical position, I am willing to serve a minimum period of one Bureau of Investigation? year. QYes QNo 0 No D Yes Date Place 
b. Are you willing to proceed to Washington, D, c., or other duty station, at your own f, If appointed as a Special Agent or Radio Maintenance Technician, are you willing 
expense? QYes QNo 
and prepared to accept assignment or transfer·to anr part of the United States or 
Puerto Rico for either temporary or pennanent duration? D Yes D No 
C, Will you accept a lesser position if no vacancy exists or you fail to qualify for the g, If appointed as a ~cial Agent, I agree to serve a minimum period of three position sought? D Yes D No years and complete y understand that I must be available for assignment where-
d. Are you interested in appointment as Fingerprint Clerk GS 3 at Washington, D, C,? ever my services are needed, D Yes D No 
D Yes ~ No You must understand that reiardless of preference, apr.intment h, Earliest date available for employment, may be as mgerprint Clerk GS 3 or Clerk GS since assignments must e based on 
qualifications of appointees and vacancies. i. How much notice of reporting date do you need? 
5. EDUCATION 
a, Dates 
Name of School Location From i To Course Pursued Degrees or Diplomas 
High Schools Mo. Day Yr.I Mo. Day Yr. 
i . 
I 
I .. 
I 
Colleges i 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Graduate School i 
I 
Miscellaneous I 
I 
! 
b, Were you ever dismissed from a school, or was any disciplinary action including scholastic_ probation ever taken against you during your scholastic career? 
QNo QYes 
School Date Type of Action 
C, List awards, honors, citations, position• held In school arganlzatlons, athletic d, List any special abllltlH, Interests, apart• ar hobblH with degree of proficiency, endeavors, pnd any other special recognltlan you received whlle attending ichool, 
e. Indicate your proficiency in each phase of each foreign language listed as •slight:' •good,• •fluent.• 
Name of Language Speak Understand Read Write 
, 
. 
f. Are you a member of th• bar? 
QNo QYes Date(s) 
State(s) 
II• Are you a certified publlc accountant? 
ONo QYes Date(s) 
State(s) 
h. Are you a llcenHd automoblle op~ratar? 'Driver's License# 
QNo QYes State(s) 
6. EMPLOYMENT 
List chronologically all employments, including. summer and part-time employments while attending school. 
sottlng forth dotes af unemployment, 
All time must be accounted for. If unomployod for a·porlad, lndlcato, 
Dates Position and Kind 
Name and Address of Employer From i To Salary of Work Name of Supervisor Reason for Leaving 
a. Name 'Mo, Day Yr. Mo. Dav 'Yr. 
Address 
I City & State I 
. - I 
2 
l 
-NW 38296 Docld:32989588 Page 53 
