NW 
. . 
BLACK PA'.NTHER PARTY {BPP) • 
PEORIA, ILLINOIS 
-------------------
.... _. 
. ~- ' . 
I . I\ . ...... 
, the NAACP, United Front, and the Human Relations Commission 
. '• l 
'failed to make any inroads for Negro equality in housing,-
the building trades, etc. then the appeal of the Black Pauther • • 
Party will_ become a realit·y with the young Negro·es be.nt on 
direct action .and violence. • 
.-
advised that the rally ~as a peaceful rally. 
The September ·1, ·1969. issue of the Peoria Journal 
Star newspaper, a local Peotia, Illinois newspaper, contained 
an- article captioned"Chicago Paqthe1·s Fcti1 to Show Up Here".· •• 
The ~rticle reveals that approximately one hundred twenty £ive 
• persons, almost all Negro, attended a Black Panther Party .raily • 
. : on August 31, 1969 !lt the Freedom Hall located at First and -
State • S.treet, Peor,ia, Il 1 inois. The article further revealed 
·_ that Chairman Henry Howard·explained that the visiting Chicago 
leaders of the-Black Panther Party expected for_the rally had 
been detained and then introduced the ·Reverend Blaine R~msey 
and Horace Jones,· who gave the principal talks at the -rally. 
• Reverend Ramsey is quoted as saying that the United Front, a _ .. 
•• ' 
Peoria civil rights coalition organization, had taken the position·· 
.of supporting the constitutionnl freedom oJ the Panthers to meet 
a-nd speak. Ramsey further s41:ated that he stressed that the goals'· 
of the black peopl~ require pe~ce and order from Within and with-
-out and "he who lives by the gun and sword shall die by the gun·: 
• and sword". The article further reveals that Henry Howard stated • 
that the Panthers teach that there is a combination of racism 
and explcitation and that blacks first must realize wh~t is being 
done - to them. The news article further reveals that Horace·· Jones.·· 
exhorted the black community to accept leadership from the United. 
Front and fr.om the Pai1thers and not -tQ settle for nickel-:; and • 
dimes. Fred Hulbert discussed 'applications for the theory of e 
karate O • • •• 
. . . . - • .. 
·Th'is document contains ·neither recommendations nor _. 
_ ·conclusions of the FBI. It ·is the property of the FBI and is 
--loaned to_your agen6y; it and its contents are not to be dis­
·tri@u_ted outsi.de your agency. 
-- 4 .... 
. , .. , 
. Page 1 
