• 
..::: 1 
• • 
• WALTER BERYL CHIPMAN, ET· AL .. 
CRIME ON HIGH SEAS 
.... ·. Alvin Junior Cupp, who had received a five-year 
Federal term on 3/16/65, in Marquette; Michigan, furnished 
information to Chicago Agents pinpointing officials and "goons" 
of the Seamens International Union (SIU) responsible for the 
1963 bombing of the Canadian freighter, -"Howard L. Shawn 
in Chicago, Illinois. • 
Upon Cupp 's parole from prison 12/23/66, he was 
• immediately contacted by union officials allegedly for the purpose 
of paying him off a promised $8,000 .for .maintaining his silence 
relative to the "Howard L. Sha\v" bombing while in prison. 
The U. S. Attorney's office in Chicago requested that an 
electronic device be attached to Cupp 's person to record con-:-• 
versations with union officials, anticipating evidence would be 
obtained whereby prosecution of these offi_cials would be 
forthcoming. SAC, Chicago advised the U. S. • Attorney on 
1/4/67, that the Bureau could not accede to his request since ·the. 
Solicitor General had publicly announced that all eavesdropping 
is illegal. 
At approximately 9 P. M~, 1/5/67, the Acting Attorney 
General called Mr. DeLoach relative to this case, indicating he 
felt this was a· 1egal device and he _could· see no reason why it 
should not be used. Mr. DeLoach informed the Acting Attorney 
General if he felt this. way he should put these views in writing, 
since the FBI could not afford to be criticized on one hand and then· 
on the other hand be directed by the D~partmentrto enter into such 
• procedures. The Acting Att!'>rney General, upon a 1no1nent's 
reflection, stated that in view of the "psychological situation" he . 
probably ~ould not put this request in writing and perhaps would 
infor1n the Organized C rilne Section of the Deparbnent not to 
request the FBI to utilize this device. We have since received no 
such request from the Acting Attorney General. 
- 26 -
' . . . ... .. _ .·. -· .:: . . ·' ~-.; , . . : • 
.. 
