13-00000 
show the area around a roof is weakening, it can be 
supported by beams or roof bolts." 
In ~eismic exploration, a high energy explosion 
is set off, and sensitive instruments determine the 
structure and makeup of surrounding land by record­
ing how fast the shock waves travel through the 
ground. The.waveforms can be interpreted to pin­
point probable deposits of oil, and to describe rock 
formations. "Using a large energy souce like an ex­
plosion in a mine is out of the question," Dr. Podio 
said, "so a manually controlled impact device was 
designed to generate the shock waves." The impact 
device, which works like a BB gun, uses air pressure 
to shoot a round projectile at a striker plate 
mounted at the end of the barrel. 
When the striker plate is pressed against the 
wall or roof of the mine and the device is triggered, 
shock waves are .sent through t'he surrounding rock. 
Tb£..»ock waves are picked up by wideband transduc­
err.::-.••1Hgitized by a fast transient recorder, and 
processed through the Nova 820 for waveform enhance­
ment. The waveform is then displayed on an oscil­
loscope, with the results of velocity and depth cal­
culations. Permanent records of the waveform can be 
made on paper tape, or by transmitting the data to a 
large scale remote computer. 
"A mine could make daily checks with the system 
to detect changes in rock strata as the working face 
of the mine advances," Dr. Podio said, "or the sys­
tem could be transported throughout the mine to make 
daily checks on the condition of roofs at predeter­
mined key locations." Dr. Podio noted that similar 
systems could be used to predict the quality of rock 
in rapid excavation projects or could be used in 
nondestructive tests of large concrete structures. 
PHONE BOOKS BY COMPUTER 
Peter A. Cassels 
Bell Telephone Laboratories 
Mountain Ave. 
Murray Hill, N.J. 07974 
The Bell System is using computer technology to 
modernize production of the White Pages telephone 
books. A system designed to improve customer serv­
ice, control costs and streamline massive record­
keeping operations is now being implemented. The 
SYJ!tem - called DIR/ECT (for DIRectory projECTJ -
was developed by Bell Laboratories, the research 
and development unit of the Bell System. Michigan 
Bell Telephone Company recently issued its first 
directory containing listings produced by the sys­
tem. Michigan Bell also is using the system to 
produce some of its directory assistance records. 
DIR/ECT is a more sophisticated outgrowth of its 
prototype, PHOTAC, a similar process developed by 
the New York Telephone Company under sponsorship of 
the nationwide Bell System. The first directory 
produced by the PHOTAC system was distributed in 
1966. Since then, New York Telephone has converted 
some 4.5 ~illion listings to the process. Currently 
the 12 maJor downstate White Pages directories are 
produced by PHOTAC. 
The DIR/ECT system stores in a computer memory 
directory information such as the cultomer's name, 
address, telephone number - even telephone book 
delivery instructions. The information in the com­
puter memory then is fed into a device called a 
photocomposer, which provides ready-to-print list­
ings for White Pages. Besides the annual White 
Pages directories, DIR/ECT produces daily updates of 
new listings and monthly reprints for the telephone 
companies' directory assistance operators. 
Although customers may see no obvious differences 
in the computer-produced directory, listings are 
easier to read and pages cleaner looking. The di­
rectories also have uniform abbreviations. The sys­
tem has built-in cross-checks for consistent spell­
ing of street names and for obvious errors in street 
and telephone numbers. There also is provision for 
massive directory listing changes, caused by renam­
ing of streets and buildings. 
Today, listings for phone directories are-gener­
ally set line-by-line in metal type, Changes in 
listings must be reset and inserted by hand. Kith 
the new system, changes can be made quickly (because 
information is stored on magnetic computer tape and 
not metal type), the need to store tons of lead type 
will end, and the growing cost of publishing direc­
tories will be lessened. 
EDUCATION NEWS 
M.I.T. MUSIC PROJECT USES DEC COMPUTER 
News Office 
Maachusem Institute of Technology 
Cambridge, Ma/iS. 02139 
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology has be­
gun work on a project aimed at making the Institute 
a major center for the study and composition of 
electronic music. Barry Vercoe, assistant professor 
of music, working with a computer given to the De­
partment of Humanities' music section by Digital 
Equipment Corp. of Maynard, is in the early stages 
of developing a major electronic music production 
facility at the Institute. 
Professor Vercoe said the computer facility "lr.'i 11 
be a tool both in the hands of the teacher and the 
composer that will greatly aid the development of 
creativity. The facility also will provide an ex­
cell~nt tool in the teaching of musical composition 
for conventional instruments. 
"This is definitely not a scientific project. I'm 
not interested in merely getting a computer to sound 
exactly like a trumpet. The technological applica­
tion, however, will interest some students who might 
not approach music otherwise and some of these will 
be drawn into its aesthetic considerations, through 
the back door as it were," Professor Vercoe said. 
Why compose music for a machine at all? 
"I suppose someone asked that very question when 
man first composed music for what are now traditional 
instruments, instead of for the human voice alone," 
Professor Vercoe said. "Electronic music merel\' ex­
pands the forces available to the practicing co~­
poser." 
The PDP-11/45 computer - coupled with music in­
put - also will lend itself to other forms of music 
research, such as syntactic analysis of music struc­
tures. 
Professor Vercoe is the author of tht!"widely used 
Music 360 language for digital sound synthesis. He 
has taught at M.I.T. _for two years and is director 
of the Experimental Music Studio. His work, "~feta­
morphoses for Orchestra," was given its Boston pre­
mier early this year by the M.I.T. Symphony and lr.'as 
performed by the orchestra on its subsequent nation-
