SF 
l 
0 ~ 1 0 0 - 5 5 <x 6"'Z oo 
INDEPENDENT SOCIALIST LEAGUE (ISL), 
FORMERLY WORKERS PARTY n•JP) 
The May 4, 1942, issue of •1 Labor Action", then an official 
publication of the Workers Party (WP), carried an article which 
reflected that the WP was formed in April 1940, as a result 
of a split within the leadership of the Socialist 1.forkers Party ( s,,yp). 
The article stated that when the Hitler-Stalin Pact was signed and 
Poland invaded, the minority group within the SWP, in proclaiming 
the formation of the WP, condemned the pact as being imperialistic 
in nature and stated it would not support either imperialist camp. 
The April 2 5, 19 49, issue of 11 Labor Action;: contained 
~n account of the Fifth National C6nvention of.the"WP, held March 
24-27, 1949, in Hew York City, which reflected the change of name 
Jf the organization from the '\JP to the Independent Socialist League 
(ISL) in order to emphasize the character of the group as a 
)ropaganda group for the spreading of socialist ideas and not as a 
full-fled8ed political party. 
The July 14, 1958, issue of nLabor Actionn, an official 
)ublication of the ISL, contained an ar·ti'cle captioned ,iThe ISL 
?rogram in Brief. 11 The article indicated: nThe ISL stands for 
;ocialist democracy and against the two systems of exploitation 
1hich now divide the world: capitalism and Stalinism. The ISL, 
:i.s a Marxist movement, looks to the working class and its ever-present 
,truggle as the basic progressive force in society. The ISL is 
)rganized to spread the ideas of socialism in the labor movement and 
1mong all other sections of the people; There can be no lasting and 
~enuine democracy with6ut socialism and there can ~e no socialism 
,i th out democracy." 
The September 22, 1958, issue of 1·Labor Action 11 contained 
·m undated statement signed by the Political Committee of the :i:SL 
~hich indicated that the ISL had b2en dissolved. The statement 
urged former ISL members to join t;1e Socialist Party - Social 
Democratic Federation. 
The SWP has been designated by the Attorney General 
of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 
lQLf5Q, 
A source advised on May 21, 1958, that the San.Francisco 
3ay Area Branch, Independent Socialist League, was an adjunct of the 
N'ational Organization. The Branch had representation on the National 
2om~ittee of the Independent Socialist League; it participated in 
the campaigns of the Independent Socialist League, and contributed 
financially to the support of the National Organization. 
'rancisco 
lissolved 
>OCialist 
The source advised on August 11, 1958, that the San 
Bay Area Branch, Independent Socialist League, had 
itself and the members had joined the Local Sranch of 
Party - Social Democratic Federation. 
8L}9 APPENDIX PAGE 
8 2 
NW 38613 Docld:34530150 85 
the 
