13-00000 
-18P SECRH 
1 
•. r-SPfCIAL -H.ANIL1Nf1 N8F811 
The terror campaign could be pointed at·cuban refugees seeking 
haven in the 'United States. We could sink a boatload of' Cubans 
efll'oute to Florida (real or s1mulated). • .we could roster_ attempts 
on lives of' CUban refugees in the United St~tes ev~n ~o the 
extent of wounding 1n instances to be widely publicized. 
Exploding a f'ew plastic bombs in caretull.y chosen spots., the 
81'l'Gst of' CUban agents and the release of' prepared documents 
substantiating Cuban involvement also would be helptul in 
projecting the idea of an irresponsible government. 
5. A "Cuban-based, Castro-supported" filibuster could be 
simulated against a neighboring Caribbean nation (in the vein 
of the 14th of' June invasion of' the Dominican Republic). We 
lmow that Castro is backing subversive ef'f'orts clandestinely 
against Haiti, Dom1n1can Republic, Guatemala, and Nicaragua at 
present and possible others. These efforts can be magnU"ied and 
additional ones contrived tor exposure. Por example., advantage 
can be taken of' the sensitivity of' the Domim.can Air Force to 
intrusions within their national air space. "Cqban" B-26 or 
C-46 type airoratt could. make cane-burning raids at night~ 
Soviet Bloo inc&ndiaries could be found. This could 'be cou,pied 
with "Cuban" messages to the Communist UDClersrc,und in the 
Dominican Rep(ibllc and "Cuban" Bhipments of' 81'1118 which would 
be f'ound, ar intercepted, on the beach. 
6. Use of' MIG type aircratt by US pilots C'1uld prov~e 
additional provocation. Harassment ot civil air, attacks on 
surface Bh1pp1ng and destruction of' US military' drone aircratt 
by MIO type planes would be usetul as complement&17 actions. 
An F-86 properly painted would convince air passengers that they 
saw a CUban MIG, especially it the pilot of the transport were 
to announoe sµoh tact. _The primary Clrawbt£ck to th1s suggestion 
appears to be the sec'L1l'ity r:L~k 1nheren~ in obtaining or modify­
ing an airoraf't. However, reason~le copies of· the MIG could 
be produced trom US resources in about three months. 
5 
W <sECRff?fflCIAL NANDLfttB 
:.w1.,a, ,,. ~li,'--.;-~: :: 
\ • .. •·•''!l",:;ia•,. c\ 
NOFORII 
