• 
28 January 1963 
The Executive Co:mittee met on Friday, J.;n:1ctry 25th• and 
~,1pu~v•2.J ~he r:cw pc;!.icy as outlined by the Coo,.·,:lMtor. 
wcioicna lJcering on c~vert operations weL"e ~euched as·followa: 
1. l'he Special Group will have the responsibility of 
contioulns t:e'-·!.cw of the program for infiltration of covert intelU­
~enc~ agenta. 1>1·,;,ttess will bo reg~larly chac:k:-:d with the Group. 
Higher ,:iuthority ,...,.,.,da a particular point of saying that, although 
the oLjectlve of' illten81fied covart collectlon" ii approved, 
nonotholess I CIA olwuld not feel it .ta under prcosure to "get uood 
mPn killed" in the ,,rocosa. Iu other vorda, the advantages to ba 
E,.1ined from intcna l i !ed collection IIIU8t. be continually weighed 
against the risk:.. This will be done by the Special Group. 
2. The t.ttorney General expressed great inter.eat in the 
extent to which key ~ere of tho Brigade wlll be brought into 
planning and current opcrationa. He thought that they should be 
thoroughly consulted on plans for intelligence teaw, and he indicated 
that he will personally keep ari eye on progress in this regard . 
J. The use of propaganda balloons was disapproved at thie 
time. It apparently waa not clear•• to exactly how far CIA 1hould 
go in maintaining its current capability for launching balloor.s. 
AAAAAA 
At Hr. Bundy's augge1tion I had a long talk with Cottrell on 
Saturday, the 26th. We dhcua1ed in particular the method of operation 
with the Brigade. I pointed out ao• of the eecurity aspects that 
would have to be watched, but expreaeed the opinion that a workable 
aethod of operation could be devlaed ao that the Brigade leaders 
could provide motivation and.could feel a ••nae of participation, 
without having to bring them ao cloaely into the details of target 
areas, d1epatch, commo, etc., as to constitute a security hazard. 
I cited the ,\&ency'• experience with.the H'l'8 as a poaalble,guideline 
1D thie regard. We agreed that after Kr. PitzGerald returua {raa 
Panama, about the first of February, the three of us ehould dhcU111 
thia matter further. 
TCP 
..,. . .., .. 
~,i:·,. 
,-:....,. 
. ~ • .l 
.· ~ 
• 
TAP 
