13.:QQQ00 
·••.•······., 
,.,.....L ~ I 
. . ., . 
gQ to Russia or a Communist country indicates that he has pretty strong con­
victions against the United States, or else ther~ ;<: something questionable about 
his mental processes. • 
I would think that fact alone would make-it important to watch his activities 
when he came back. 
Mr. ROWLEY. It would. And I think the FBI properly conducts the inves­
tigations, from the standpoint of internal security, and furnishes us a report. 
And then if there is something in the report that indicates he could be a risk to 
the President or the Vice President,.we could take it from 'there. 
Representative Booos. Mr. Rankin, I have to go to a meeting in 2 or :t minutes. 
There is just one question I would like to ask .before leaving. 
Is it not a fact that probably the greatest deterrent that you have is the very 
fact that the public knows that there is a Secret Service? 
Mr. RowLEY. Yes, sir. 
Representative Booos. That you do guard . the life of the President. And 
that the chances of an assassin escaping with his own life are pretty remote. 
So this psychological weapon is one of the things you rely on? 
Mr. ROWLEY. That is correct. 
Representative Booos. And you must necessarily keep a degree of secrecy 
about the methods you employ. 
Mr. RowLEY. Yes, sir; otherwise they could develop countermethods, to thwart 
anything we might.set up. 
Representative Booos. Exactly. Thank you very much. 
Mr. RANKIN. Chief Rowley, do you ·In the Secret Service obtain the benefit 
of cooperation wi'th other governmental agencies in the protection of the 
President? 
Mr. ROWLEY. We receive cooperation from every agency. If I may name a 
few-we were· scheduled to visit Puerto Rico _in 1948 or 1947-I am not qu.ite 
certain-with !>resident Truman, who was then vacationing at Key West. We 
had no office in Puerto Rico at the time. We did not know the situation other 
than that it ·could be sticky because of the Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico. 
(At this point, Represen·tative Boggs withdrew from the hearing room.) 
Mr. RowLEY. Our advance man called me and asked me if I would not talk 
to Mr. Hoover to see whether or not we could have the assistance of some of 
their agents who were down there ln an .office established there. And I com­
municated then with the A!:IBlstant Director, who said, "I ·wm get back to you" 
and got the approval. That was an-example of the beginning of the cooperation, 
when I was at the White House, with the FBI. 
Now, in the years subsequent to World War II, anytime we were abroad, I 
made perS'bnal contact with Mr. Dulles, and I think for national security we 
should go off the record on thls, because this i:s something that perta-ins today. 
(Discussion off the Tecord.) 
The CHAIRMAN. Back on the record. 
Mr. RANKIN. Now, Chief Row1ey, are you. famiHar w'ith the provisions in the 
appropriation act_ with regard to the FBI concerning their protection of the per­
son of the President? 
Mr. RowLEY. Yes. 
Mr. RANKIN. You know of that, do you? 
Mr. RowLEY. Yes; I do. Historically, that was first passed in 1910. It stated 
that because of the limited number of Secret Service men at that time, that 
appropriation-a certain given figure-was to be used by the U.S. marshals to 
assist the Secret Service. 
Mr. RANKIN. Was the Secret Service opposed to that provision in the appro­
prl-atlon act for the FBI? 
Mr: ROWLEY. No; it has never opposed that provision over the years. I 
started to say, Mr. Ra,nkin----1!UbsequenUy, after the founding of the FBI, tJhis 
was transferred, apparently, from the marshals to the FBI, and it has been in 
the a·ppropriations as :tong as I can remember. We have never objected to that 
appropriation. 
Mr. RANKIN. Now, there is some language in H.R. 4158, I understand, which 
deals with the permanent organization of the Government that you are objecting 
to; is that right? 
473 
