,,, .. •:\ 
,_:;/ 
I 
Research Branch, but recommended and approved forl transfer 
to other components of the Office of Security. ~nong those 
items discussed was 11 Special Access Sourcerr Charl¢s Wiley. 
Messrs. Jones and Dempsey agreed that Wiley was not worth 
the money spent, performed little or no useful service for 
the Office of Security, and in fact had done little or 
nothing to justify his keep. It was further agre~d that 
Mr. Jones would discuss Wiley and make known to the Deputy 
Director of Security (PSI), Stanton Ense, the agr~ed assess-
ment of Wiley. ! 
Mr. Jones neXt informed Mr. Dempsey that a memorandum 
should be prepared reviewing the Wiley case, making recom­
mendations as to disposition. A memorandum was then pre­
pared by Louis Vasaly of the Research Branch, dat~d 18 Sep­
tember 1973, which recalled the historj of Wiley'~ associa­
tion with the Office of Security with a recommendation for 
termination. The only disagreement was as to timing. 
Mr. Dempsey recommended 30 June 1974; Mr. Jones 1 February 
1974. The Deputy Director of Security (PSI) agreed with 
the 1 February 1974 termination date and suggested using 
Ll1c Sa,,,,:; ~:-:::::::::::.:::'.:'e as in the Pennington case. 
On 25 October 1973, Louis Vasaly and John Dempsey, 
both of the Research Branch, met Wiley at the Key Bridge 
Marriot Motel, Arlington, Virginia, to effect his termina­
tion. Wiley was most unhappy with the proceeding although 
claiming to understand that budget problems and curtail­
ment of domestic activities lead to his separation. He 
acknowledged that written notice of his termination by his 
signature; however, he appended that the notice was "signed 
with the reservation that the terms will be appealed," and 
stating he would seek redress either with the Director of 
Central Intelligence or contacts on Capitol Hill. 
Wiley was contacted twice more on 6 November 1973, 
and on 12 February 1974, both times in New York City, by 
Sidney Stembridge, Deputy Director of Security (P&M) and 
Louis Vasaly. At the former meeting, Mr. Stembridge politely 
explained to Wiley that CIA is no longer engaged in matters 
in which he had been assisting and that there was, there­
fore, no further need for his services. Mr. Stembridge 
indicated that the Office of Security might be able to 
assist financially in a limite<l sense beyond the :31 January 
termination date, but that would be the 1 imi t of :any help. 
-107-
SEP 30 l97'i 
CJ /I .. r1 
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 95 
