( 
[ 
( 
SECTION' 107. .URITY INFORM~NTS AND CONFIDEN.L SOURCES. 107D-F 
4. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters where contact is 
maintained on a period:i.c basis dependent on circumstances, contact 
potential iµformants personally at least once every two weeks. 
5. Advise Bureau of progress being made at least every six months. Sub­
mit letters (FD-401) concerning potential informants who are not being 
paid on Bureau authorization on UACB basis; include summary.of infor­
mation furnished during past six months and cer·i;ifications regarding 
stability and indoctrination against disclosure, Follow form indicated 
under § l07L, item 3b, below, except those items concerning· payments. 
6. Post record of all contacts with potential informants. 
7. During contacts vii th potential informants, if it develops individual 
does not have necessary capabilities, discontinue efforts. 
8. Informants WAY raise a question concerning their position if it becomes 
known publicly they are affiliated with subversive organization. In 
such case, he may be told that his cooperation is ma.tter of re cord in 
FBI and if some question arises concerning his loyalty we will consider 
making facts of his cooperation known ·to his employer or to respons:ible 
individuals. Before taking steps to advise anyone of potential infor­
mant I s or informant• s cooperation, obtain B.ureau authority. 
9. From first interview with potential informant through development and 
until discontinued, use extreme caution at all times to be certain he is 
not a plant. 
10. When potential informant begins to furnish current information and· 
otherwise qualifies for designation as informant, advise Bureau.· 
This communication must be personally initialed by SAC or ASAC 
acting in his absence. Individual's background must be thoroughly 
reviewed at this time,.keeping in mind possibility of using inform­
ant as witness. If individual has any weaknesses, set forth safe­
guards being fellowed to insure security and prevent embarrassmen·I; 
to Bureau. 
E. BUREAU POLICY 
l. Development.of military personnel 
Do not develop informants among military personnel on military reserva­
tions, establishments, etc., unless specifically approved by Bureau. 
2. Contacts by designated Agents 
Contacts with informant or potential informant should only be made by 
Agent or Agents specifically design2.ted to contact him. 
3. Divulging information to informant 
No information should be divulged to potential informant or informan·i; 
concerning any of Bureau's investigative activity other than that which 
is essential to his proper operation. 
4. Recording investigative activity . 
All investigative activity must be made matter of record in field office 
files w:i. th all sources of information being completely identified .. Agents 
must not have and use informants known only to i:ndividual Agen·ts personally. 
F. I:NDOCTRINATION, DIRECTION, AND CONTROL OF INFORm:t-TTS 
1. Caution against divulging relationship 
During initial development and consistently thereafter, impress upon 
informant absolute necessity that he refrain from divulging his rela­
tionship with Bureau. These instructions must be properly phrased to 
prevent possibility of Bureau I s being accused of attempting to impose 
cans ors hip. 
2. Developing additional background 
During development of informant, additional data concerning his back­
ground should be c9ntinuously obtained from informant. Be alert for 
data revealing he is mentally ,:ir emotionally unstable, or has some 
personal problem which would make him a risk. 
3. Indications of instability 
Immediately furnish details of any ind~cations of instability to Bureau, 
with recommendations as to informant's continuance and comments as to 
any steps being taken to prevent embarrassment to Bureau. 
5 
9-13-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1166 
