------
--
-
Classification: • _ __...S.-E...,.C...,R,...E...,_T ___ _ 
(This form is to be used for material extracted · 
from CIA-1:ontrolled documents.) 
6 of 9 pages 
Casasin said that type of special design plant dealt with aviation, ' 
nuclear energy, bacterialogical warfare, etc. He said that he cannot 
remember specifically which type of plants were located in Minsk, but 
the city was of interest for that reason. Additionally, anyone in the 
area of those plants was of interest to the agency. Casasin said he 
is confident that Oswald was not working in any type of security faci-' 
lity. He said even with the presence of the design plants, Minsk was 
not identified as a security or military priority area. Casasin said 
also that he believes. they had some type of encyclopedic information 
at the agency on the radio factory in Minsk where Oswald worked. He 
said that kind of information was maintained in the Office of Resear~h ' 
and Reporting. Casasin said he was not aware of a KGB facility in 
Minsk. 
Casasin said the Legal Travellers Program was headed at the time ' 
of his memo by Alexander Sokaloff (phonetic) of the Soviet Russia 
Division. He said the program began pre-1960 with the lessening of 
tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union. He said Soka­
loff had come out of the Soviet Union with his parents as a child. 
He explained that defectors such as Sokaloff were kept at arms length ~ 
for security reasons by the agency. ' 
The Legal Travellers Program operated in such a way that the 
agency contact was in touch with the traveller well before the pro­
posed trip and would be informed as to which areas would be visited, 
what he would be doing in the country, etc. The agency contact would 
then be able to give the traveller the agency's "requirements'' for 
information while he was abroad. Casasin said he was not involved in 
the program. He said he was opposed to it because it was too short- ' 
term to justify the investment of resources and the risk involved. 
He said he believes the travellers were told that their contacts were • 
CIA, but he doesn't know for sure. He said cover may have been used by 
the contact. 
I asked Casasin what the reference to the "Harvey Story" in the 
last line of his memo referred to. He said at first that it must have 
been some kind of cryptonym he was using at the time. He pondered a 
while. chen he said he would need some kind of prompting of his 
memory. He said he doubts that it would have been someone's true name. ' 
Casasin said he has never been contacted by anybody, including 
the Warren Commission, about the memo. 
He said that his interest in Oswald as expressed in the memo was 
just a lead. He said the fact of no follow-up on that lead was not 
unusual. He said Oswald's going to the Soviet Union was unusual, but 
that left him open to the possibility of KGB contact. He therefore 
SECRET 
Classification: -----------
I Classified by derivation: ____ _ 
~~~~~~~ ~ 
