107M - N SECTIOU lOi ~ECUilITY IHFORI1lillTS .AND CONFr. :TIAL SOURCES 
N, 
[. 
12. 
., . 
document in the p er·tinent informant file and i a not to be seri a.lized. 
If a particular section. of this form is not applicable, such should be 
noted thereon, If it later becomes applicable, the serial number oan be 
noted at that time. 
Bulky material submitted by informant 
Where informant or source submits bulky material other than a statement 
and same pertains to a specific investigative matter, bulky material may 
be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of executed 
form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all a:pplicable items 
set forth on form FD-306. In such a case, the original form :FU-306 or 
channelizing memorandum should be filed in the subfile of the informant 
or source and the file and serial number where the bulky material is 
located should be noted thereon, 
PAYHEHTS TO INFOR.M.!Ul'TS j\jlfD HArrnLING MONEY RECEIVED 
1. No ·gifts to informants 
a. Gifts should not be given to informants since such actions might be 
misco:istrued. 
b. Relationship between Agents and informants shall be ·maintained on 
a. businesslike basis, 
c. [Dele tecl] 
d. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
_representatives of companies, privc3:te industries, or i.nsurance companies 
_.a:Ii.d request assistance regarding pa.'y'ments of moneyj gifts, or products 
of such companies to informants, 
2. SJC authority to pay informants 
a. In specific instances in which it is necessary and expedient to 
·expend money to obtain information concerning matters or persons 
under investigation, which is not otherwise obtainable, or to advance 
expense money to enable an individual to obtain such inforr:ration, 
SAC may approve payments of amounts up to $200 and totaling not more 
than $200 on a c.o.d. basis reg2.rdless of the number of payments. 
This applies only to individuals who have never been regularly paid 
·for services or expenses on Bureau authorization. In other words, 
·once an individual has been paid on Bureau authorization, regardless 
of the amount, this authority of the SAC may not be 1.itilized. 
b, IndiTidual who is paid on SAC authority should not be described in 
oorrespondenqe as an informant or source who is being paid on a 
"regular basis 11 or on "Bureau authorization. 11 
e. The blue slip reclaiming any of these payments authorized by the SAC 
must clearly and accurately explain the circumstanc~s and summarize the 
information obtained so the Bureau will be in a position to pa.s.s 
intelligently such blue slips for payment~ • 
d. Prfor Bureau authori·ty must be obtained to ma.k·e any additional payment 
to an individual who has received payments totaling $200, 
3. Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authoriza­
tion. 
l - l 
! 
i 
l 
J l 
b. In requesting this authorization, a justification must be set forth 
containing the following items and using the subheadings shown. 
{In espionage and foreign nationality matters,-use subheadings 
where applicable.) _ .. .. _ . _ ••• . . . .. • --.-~,~::El 
. (1) Recommendation -
(Use following wording as nearly as possibl~~ 
"I recommend that authority be granted to 
continue (increase, deer.ease) payments to the 
.. ,.,. 
above informan·!; up to $ (amount) per (month, week)· 
for services, plus up to$ (amount) per (month,. week) 
for expenses actually incurred for a period of months, 
effective __ (date).") ---
'»••-· • ...,_.. 
.. .. ...._ I! 
. ??::~:.!~)! . . ··-···------~ - . "'~':-."":~~ 
l 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Page 1349 
18 
-7-15-63 \ 
