13-00000 
SECRET 
SUBJECT: Courtesy Visit of JFK Assassination 
Records Review Board, 16 October 1996 
We have succeeded thus far in working out cooperative arrange­
ments for resolving differences of opinion as to what information 
can be released to the public and what should be withheld because 
of sensitivities. 
(U) The Board may also express interest in gaining access to 
records that are not part of the JFK records (the sequestered 
collection), but which the Board regards as possibly·contairiing 
useful background information or leads for further inquiry. We 
have released some 227,000 pages of relevant Agency records thus 
far and are continuing to collaborate with the Board to identify 
additional information that can be released. 
(U) Suggested Talking Points: You may want to emphasize the 
Agency's commitment to continuing the very positive relationship 
with the Board, including making people and computer expertise 
available to process relevant documents. 
(S) You may want to assure the Board that CIA is determined 
to give the Board apd designated staff full access to all assas­
sination records, as required by the JFK statute. At the same time, 
it would·be helpful to stress that there are certain categories of 
sensitive information that require continued protection and should 
not be release<;3.. Among the types of information contained in the 
JFK records ~llat we need to protect are: 
- Identities of agents and CIA officers who retired under 
cover. 
- The Agency's relationships with liaison services, and 
information received from foreign governments. 
A specific example in this category is the'Agency's 
current re est to the Board to protect {tlie liaison P 
relationship with Australi, and to withhold 
documents received i:om Austra 1 
Need to protect non-official cover. 
The Board is planning at its 15-16 October meeting 
to review documents that identify {'§_ompanies /that 
provided(comine+cial coved. We are arranging to have 
the DO brief the Board on the potential damage to the 
non-officj al cover program and (companies) involved ff 
such cover is compromised. 
2 
