-
. . 
• 
Indication that they had made any threat toward the President or members of 
his family. Whenever there was a threat made, we were furnished promptly 
by the different agencies the information on the in!lividual's name. And this was 
done in voluminous reports by the FBI, and the other agencies. When they got 
any information, they would notify the local office, notify their liaison, who 
notified us by telephone, and confirmed by memorandum. The same obtained 
with respect to the CIA. 
Representative Booos. This fellow was interviewed by the FBI several times----­
he was interviewed in New Orleans when he alleged.Ir had his Fair ·Play Com­
mittee. If my memory serves me correctly, Mrs. Paine was interviewed about 
him shortly before the visit of the President, after he had gone to work at the 
Texas School Book Depository. I agree that there had been no indication of 
a threat on the President's life. But, obviously he was a person in the FBI 
files who was under some degree of surveillance. It would seem to me strange 
that the FBI did not transmit this information to the Secret Service .. 
Mr. RowLEY. The FBI, Mr. Congressman, are concerned with internal security. 
And I think their approach was internal security as it related to this individual, 
whether or not he was a potential recruit for espionage, intelligence, or some­
thing like that. 
Their concern was talking to him in. this vein, in the. course of which there 
was no indication that he bore any malice toward anyone, and particularly to 
the President of the United States. If someone said that Henry Smith didn't 
like the President, and we got his file, we would· get to the point where you 
have 3 million names in the file. How effecl:ive are you going to be then? 
Representative Booos; Well, ·that is rlglit. 
Mr. RowLEY. And then you get in the area of civil rights and all, if you start 
going into individuals---
Representative BOGGS. And if l remember correctly, there has never been­
we have had no testimony from anyone that Oswald ever threatened the Presi­
dent of the United States. Is that correct? 
Mr. RANXiN. That is correct. 
_Representative BOGGS. That was the only question I had. 
Mr. DULLES. Along that line, I just raise the question as to whether maybe 
too much emphasis is not put on the threat angle, because a clever fellow, if he 
is going to assassinate the ·President, the last thing he is going to do is go 
around and talk about it and thr~ten it. 
Mr. RoWLEY. That is right. Well, this has been so with loners, too. 
As you say, you read the assassinations. Some of them just kept to them­
selves, and traveled, and the Iiext thing you know they confronted their victim. 
Sometimes they were successful, other times they were not. 
Mr. DULLES. I recognize the di.ffl.culty of. working oQt adequate criteria. But 
I just think you ought to do some more seeking, and there is more work to be 
done on that. 
Mr. RowLEY. Yes, sir. 
·Senator CooPER. May I ask this question: It hasn't been .clear to me.. Is it 
correct that now a defector does come within the scope of your Service? 
Mr. RowLEY. Yes, sir; we are furnished the names· of defectors by the FBI. 
And they investigate these people. And then in their report, if it shows that the 
individual has emotional instability or propensity for violence, we pick it up from 
there. .But all the reports on the known defectors in this country are submitted 
to us, and then we evaluate from the case history of the report whether or not 
he would be a risk for 1lB subject to investigation. 
Senator COOPEL I understood that was the procedure before. But my ques­
tion is now, is the defector per se classed as one of those against whom you 
would take protective measures? 
Mr. RoWLEY. ·No, no, sir; not unless we had-­
·Senator CooPER. Since the assassination? 
Mr. RowLEY. Not unless we had 'these three categories of factors we just 
enunciated. 
·Senator COOPER. I would suggest-first, I understand there are not many de­
fectors who have returned to the United States. 
Secondly, it seems to me a Dian who has defected from the United States to 
472 
