( 
( 
( 
a. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
SECTION lC 'i SECURITY INFORt1AlTTS .AND c01u: 1:TTIAL SOURCES 
•· -Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further dis-
semination of such information to follow the instructions set forth 
aboveo 
1073 
Also set up a control file regarding this corrective action, and upon 
comnletion of same submit to the Bureau a final letter under the in­
fcr~ant, s caption identifying each case by title, charact'er, Bureau file, 
where known, and date of communication. 
This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files to see 
that necessary corrective action has been taken in each instance. 
If necessary, other field offices.which ~ave received information from 
the informant should also be requested to submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been madeo 
It is imp era ti ve that all information from the in:formant be oorrect°ly 
labeled and great care must be taken to see that this is done. 
Occasionally, an ex-informant through_ his speech, writings, or ac.tions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of 
the information attributed to that individual in the absence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was an informant. 
Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
(T.) CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a • .A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing would be saved. 
b • .Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol .number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnish~d. 
. c. The abbreviation "CS" may be used in intra-Bureau communicationi, 
for confidential source; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS. 11 Communications 
relating to espionage and foreign nationality matters should in 
addition have a character indicating the country involved;· e.g., 
IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential source, 
the abbreviation 11CS 11 is to appear bef.ore the symbol numb.er; e.g., 
• CS NY-OOO-S. 
e. Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from the 
series of numbers used for your security, racial, and criminal 
informants. 
3. Index 
a. Index cards on form FD-348 like those prepared for informant~ must 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant index, 
racial informant index, or the security informant index, depending on 
the type of information furnished. 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the symbol index on inform-
ants. . 
c. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
criminal informant index, racial informant index, and the security 
informant index if the source furnishes information of value in these 
types of investigations. • 
4. Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to an individual·~ho 
has potential as a security con~idential source, a 134 classification 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to develop the individual are discontinued. Files may be opened 
on confidential sources in criminal catters in a manner identical ~ith 
that for handling criminal informant files in the discretion of the 
·SAC. 
27 
5-13-69 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1320 
T 
I 
' 
l 
1 
t ! i 
I 
i 
I ! I 
l 
! 
j 
·I l i i l 
i i 
I 
l 
! 
I I I ., ! 
! 
