1 
· NW 
• ••••• :. ' 
, 
. ·-· _,.:. • 
January 15, 1960 
INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM 
Following the Supreme Court decision in the· Greene 
case_. on June 29, -1959, prolonged e.fforts to prepare a 
Prestdential Directive to establish a program under which _ 
I
. private contractbrs may be granted access to classified data· 
have culminated in a draft Order dated January 7, 1960. · 
Budget is circulating this draft to all interested agencies. 
The more recen·t Bureau comments concerning this matter were 
forwarded by memorandum _to AAG Yeagley, December 30, 1959; 
by memorandum to the Attorney General, 'with copies to 
Messrs. Walsh and Yeagley, Janiiary 6, 1960; by memorandum., 
January 11, 1960, to Mr. Yeagley; and by memorandum of 
January 14, 1960, to Assistant Attorney :General Kramer, ·with 
copy to Mr. Yeagley. • The 1a·st 1;wo of these communications 
both concerned the same draft which is now being circulated· 
by Budget. 
I~ brief, we have noted that under the proposed Order 
agencies may consider all of the pertinent information available 
regardless of source. Under Section 4 A 1 protection is • 
afforded to regular conj"idential informants. Under Section 4 A.2 
inf-ormation from persons othe.r than curren-t informants may be 
considered if they cannot appear due to death, severe illness, 
or some such other good and sufficient cause. It· is apparent 
that information from casual informants who refuse to testify ✓~---
cannot be used under this section. 
I 
Section 5 B, accordi'ng to }l.r •. Yeagley, would allow 
. use of data from wire taps, microphones, and other sensitive 
techniques •. }Jr. Yeagley has indicated, however, that such 
data would have to be produced in the form of actual quotations 
from the conversations rat~er than the paraphrased form in 
which we disseminate t·his information. 1ver believe it will not 
be possible for us to furnish other than paraphrased information 
in most instances because of the absolute necessity of protecting 
our source~ • 
• Even though data from casual informants and sensitive 
techniques may not be used as indicated above, Section 9 of the 
Order grants and affirms the department head concerned authority 
