---· . . 
:·-•: . . -. ~ .. ·---... , ... :• . :.: --·-
.( 
SECURI'l'Y INVKiTIGAT~---
seloctintl koy figures in the labor field, give 
consideration to tho critical nature of the in-
87D 
dl~stry or trade in-v.olvc,cl and the fact that certain 
industries, such as transportation and commun:ication, 
are particularly vulnerable to Communiut infiltration 
and sudden disruptive actiono 
V 0 Editors, publishers and business managers of generally 
recogni:t.ed Communii:t publications or Cornrauni~t publish­
ing houses and operators of the important Communist 
bookstores 
VI.,. Prominent figures in the Communist-owned and 7 controlled 
educational institutions, generally referred to as 
workers schools 
VII. .Attorneys a.nd bondsmen who are active in the Communist 
movement r,nd. are kno"lln to furnish important assistance 
to the Co:rmnunis t movemc nt 
VIIIo Espionage or nationalistic tendency subjects who&~ 
activities are connecte;d to a significant degree with 
the pro gram o.f the Cornraunis t Party, provided they have 
no recognized diplomatic status. Inves·l;igation and 
preparation, submission and dissemination of repo~ts 
governed by instructions issued in individual oq.5-es in 
this category a,nd the gen·ei·al rules ·governing ·ke.y>­
figures as subsequently set forth in this si6tio~ are 
not applicable to these subjects. 
The above list is not all-inclusive. There· may be individuals 
wh~, because of their profession, position in public life, 
Governnent employment or other associations, may not see fit 
to serve outwardly in behalf of the Communist Party or its 
related groups but who, because of their established Co.mmµnist 
sympathies and their contributions to the Communist .movement, 
might well conform to the general key figure definii;ion set out 
above. Membership in the Comrr:unis·t Party or other basic revo],u­
tionary organizations is not a prerequisite to being a key 
figure and the designation may apply to both citizens and aliens 0 
(b) Regulati~ns govern~ng the handling of the key figure program 
.I. Designation and deletion of key figure status 
Designat.e or remove a subject as a key figure by individ­
ual letter to the Bureau carryin~ the subject in the 
caption.and containlng a brief statement as to the reason 
·.for designatioh or deletion. 
Where office ·of origin for key figures is transferred, 
deletions in the old office of origin and additions in 
the new office are handled in accordance with 87D 7b (9) 
{b) above., 
II.,· Photographs 
Photographs must be obtained for-each key figure. When­
ever pos~ible, the photographs should be ~btained from 
. :..Public records, .law enforcement agencies_,· state or 
- Federal Govermaent ag~ncies and aimilar sources. Where 
more direct means employed, use extreme care to avoid 
.~rejudlcing the investigation. Send one copy of photo­
graph ~f each kej figur~ to the Bureau, either by cover 
letter or as enclooure to a report.· Maintain a copy· 
of each pl.to tugrap11 ln _the subject's individual c::.!ie file· 
in the f .ieltl. If album of key figure r,ho to .,;rap n:; main­
tained~ be sure duplicates are :ilso .filE'(i in each indivi-•l­
ual subject'~ filco 
III.· Handwri tine; si:,ecime:1:; 
Suitable han~wDitin 6 specimens of each key figure must 
be obtained. Wht-!ne':-": pos::iible, ol,t::i.in handwriting :q:.ec~i­
mens from publlc rec:~is, law enforcement agencies, 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page G83 67 
11- -
