.1 ,. 
( 13. 
(. ! [ 
f [ 
( 
NW 
. '~ • '\ 
d. Above also &lies to Agent's notes taken 
concerning evidence otherwise obtained. 
Ang surveillances or 
Interviews with subjects o~ security investigations 
a. Policy 
[Cl)] No security investigation of an individual is to be closed 
unless subject is included in ADEX or consideration given to 
interview. Bureau will not authorize cancellation of ADEX card 
for inactivity until subject has been interviewed or Bureau 
advised wl;ly interview is inadvisable. • 
[ (2) With regard to subversive and revohttionary organizations, rank­
and-file members and their counterpai::t"S in ~imilar nonmeri1beQJ:iip 
groups may be interviewed on SAC authority; however, prto.r 
Bureau authority must be obtained for interviews of subjects 
when circumstances indicate a delica·te situation and a greater 
than usual risk involved, such as nationally prominent individ­
uals, labor leaders and persons in educational» mass nledia, • 
religious or publishing fields. Prior Bureau authority is also 
required to interview those who have publicly disclosed··or are . 
likely to disclose to the mass media contacts by Bureau A·gents 
for the purpose of placing the Bureau in a bad light by falsely 
charging harassment or who have misstated or are likely to • 
misstate the facts concerning the interview for.self-serving 
purposeso . 
(3) Prior to interview, conduct informant, credit (identifying 
information only), arrest, and indices checks on individual to 
be interviewed, determine employment, establish subject not 
ev1ployed or connected with any sensitive area requiring Bureau 
authorization for an interview,- and prepare memorandum for SAC 
setting forth available facts. Each such interview must be 
personally approved by SAC. If subject not interviewed, 
closing communication must show reason for not interviewing. 
(4) Where prior Bureau authority is required, no report need be 
submitted when requesting Bureau authority to interview subjecto] 
bo Purpose • 
(1) When investigation is inconclusive~ to det·ermine subject I s 
sympathies and whether he continues to adhere to revolutionary 
doctrines 
(2) To develop 
associates 
.(3) To develop 
c. [Deletedl d. LDeleted 
e. LDeleted 
H!:84 
information concerning activities of subjec·t and his 
in subversive movement 
informants 
