( 
( 
( 
SECTIOU 107, ~ECURITY INFOR11A.NTS AND CONFID ·.jI.AL SOURCES. 107H-I-J" 
- - • H. SYMBOLS 
1. Assigning numbers 
a. All informants should be designated .by permanent symbol number of 
which Bureau must be ad vi sod. Once number assigned, it must not be 
subsequently reassigned to any other informant or so11roe. 
b. Potential security informants and confidential sources whose identity 
must be protected may be assigned permanent symbol numbers if they are 
prod.ucing sufficient inform.a.ti on to 'tlarrant use of such designation:,. 
c. Individuals ·i;o whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be advised 
of such symbols. 
d. Cover name should be used by informant in signing his statements and 
in communications between informant and field office. Ad.vise· Bureau 
of cover name. 
e. Prefix of symbol ~~mber consists of appropriate field office teletype 
abbreviation. Suffix of symbol number will consist of le_tter 11S 11 for 
security informant; letters "PSI" for potential security informant; 
• ( letters ["CS" ]for confidential s ou:-ce. 
f. Although source may subsequently furnish information requiring change 
in designat1on {e.g., from security to criminal or to racial~ etc.), 
number previously assigned ·,vill remain same; however, .suffi::r. is to 
be changed to appropriate letter or letters indicating this change 
(NY-000-S to NY-000-C or to NY-000-R). 
2. Communications - use of symbols 
a. After Bureau is advised of permanent symbol, in subsequent co~.munica­
tions true name of informant should not be s~t forth; use symbol 
number. 
b. In all communications after initial letter, Bureau and field office 
file numbers for informant must be set forth. • 
c. Ir.. cornrnunications between offices, follow same procedure. 
d. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis should be referred to in initial letter to 
interested office by true name and symbol number if necessary 
for other division to know identity. Office receiv.ing such 
letter should make appropriate index cards for "Informants a:n:':. 
Sources in Other Divisioi;is" ind.ex. Subsequent letters between 
interested offices may then identify individual by symbol nuober 
only. 
(2) Individtlals who leave division where they have been furnishing 
information and do not plan t·o return should be immediately 
discontinued, their symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name used in all administrative correspondence. 
·(3) If informant is transferred to another office and remains active., 
his identity must still be protected. 
e. In coI!h-nunications concerning poi;ential securit:;r informant when a 
symbol number is not assi·gned, na:ne of potential security informant 
and abbreviation "PSI" shall be use~; e.g., 11John Doe, PSI." 
f. In espionage and foreign nationality matters, caption of corrmtunic~­
tion should also show character and country designation (i.e., rs - R 
for Russi::>. or IS - PO for Poland, etc.). This facilitates routing 
at Bureau. 
I. INDEXIKG 
True names and aliases of all informants, as weil as cover name assigned, shall 
be in1exed in general office indices as any other name. Index cards should 
show file number of informant, but such terms as 11Informa.nt" or "Potential 
Security Informant!' shall not appear. 
J • INDICElS . 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol number index 
Are to be kept by SAC, Ji.SAC, or security supervisor consistent with 
maximum sect,rity and best a.dministrati_.-e practice 
a. Alphabetical name index 
In all offices maintain card index showing true identities of all 
security informants, potential security informants, and security 
confidential sources. This is to be known as alphabetical name index. 
File oards in alphabetical order. 
ll 
"9-30-70 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Page 1152 
. ) 
I 
