'ID: 
•· 
·' 
OFFICE OF 'THE .DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL 
WASHiNGTON, O,C. 20530 t' 
Harold R. Tyler, Jr. 
Deputy Attorney General 
K. William O'Connor 
Special Counsel for 
Intelligence Coordination 
.., 1 /_J, 
Interpretation of "Demand", • 
28 C.F.R., § 16.21, et. seq. - Action Memorandum 
The meaning of "demand11 is not :indicated, beyond subpoena, in • 
the C.F .R. sections indicated. This omission creates a need for an 
interpretation, for purposes of uniform Department of Justice reaction. 
Outl:ines for :inqnLry proceedings were agreed upon between the 
White House and the Senate Select Committee on June 13, 1975, and a 
copy of those procedures was furnished to the Department on June 16, 
1975. Under those guideli..YJ.es, there is a general undertaldng by the 
Committee to identify witnesses to the P..gency a reaso:nable time before 
the :interviews occur. This general rule includes cu:rTent and former 
e.mployees; certain exceptions (not clearly def:ined) are indicated in 
the guidel:ines. Tne Committee is required to provide the witness with 
a copy of the procedures, and 11relevant waivers of secrecy oaths or 
agreements for the purpose of this :inquiry". The Committee is required 
to give prior notice of an interview, generally, specify:ing: (a) sub­
ject area; (b) periods of employment; (c) the date set for the inter-view. 
Since these structured procedures, tal{en with the rules of the 
Subcommittee, may create a requirement of testimony upon witnesses, it 
seems to me clear that the paragraphs of 28 C.F.R., § 16.21, et. seq., 
which refer to 11demand11 should be interpreted to include any request 
by any Corrnnittee staff member to interview any employee, former emplqyee 
or other person connected with the Department of J1..J.Stice. 
This interpretation requires certain action: (1) that the wit­
ness be authorized to speak under s 16.23 by an appr.opriate Department 
Official; and, (2) that an appropriate Department Official be designated. 
I would think that the appropriate Department Official for the FBI should 
be the Director of the FBI or the FBI General Counsel, in coordination 
wlth this office. 
• • 
