TIJP SSC!J'.;"1' - 9 -
CoV2rt Inforrn::rs Ern[:iloyed by the P..gency 
The Office of Security err-ploys a wide range of confidential info:r:rrers frcro. 
amcmg the general roster of errployees of the Agency. Included here arl:! 
plurrl:-crs, chauffeurs, guards, tel?:r;:>hone mainte..."1ance rren, electricians, rre.rrbers 
of tl1e char fnrce, etc. These e:cnployees are paid adc.itional co:1p2nsation to 
act c1s inforrrers and to rep::)rt to the Office of Security on a.'w r ;tential 
security problems which they observe ~ng their fellat1 emDloyees at. the Ag2nc:1. 
If an err[)lovee,. for exan-ple, has bee..1 a::mvicted of a crirre or is thought to be 
engaging in any contact which would rna.k:.e him susceotible to blackmail, that 
matter is supfX)sed to be reported to t..1-}e Office of Security. Like.vise, if any 
errployee is observ-ed conducting hirrself in a suspicious rranner, such as regu2st­
ing information from files which do not concern him, that is to be re?=)rted. 
A fe.v outside emplovees, i.e., non- errplovees of the Agency, are also retc:.i.ned 
for the sane pu_rp:)se. This would include eniployees of the telephone ccnpa.r,y. 
In all instances, h::Jt-1ever, the puroose is to rraintain security a.rronq the CIA 
emplovees and those w:>rking for the CIA. 
The only staff enployees retained as inforrrers are those who work in the records 
office of the Directorat.:e of OpPrations. Several staff enplovees in that office 
were recruited at the reauest of Mr. Thorras Karcrrress:i.nes because of the e.xtrerre l y 
high level of sensitiv::.t;, and the records maintained in that office. 
h1hen the CIA Headquarters was constructed in the late 1950's, the Office of 
Security recruited various rrembers of the co::1st:ructi on wnrk force to maintain 
security ag~inst the installation of listening devices, telephone taps, or ot:.er 
penetrations of the 
In 1967 and 1968 the Office of Security arranged for the Anderson Security 
Associates to have its errployees attend rreetings arid other functions of vario11s 
oroanizations thought to represent i=:otential threats to CIA personnel or inst.J.1 L1-
tions and to report on such threats. A list of organizations to be c."1eckcd fo::­
indications of such threats was provided to Anderson Security Associates, whic:.1t 
in tum p:ro'ri_ded regular reports to the Office of Security on the activit i ...:!S of 
the organizatio."1 rronitored. 
Anderson Security Associates was in reality run bv Mr. Ralph True, a CIA Head­
quarters case officer, who also ran a similar wholly-owned prooriet ary ~'I on 
the h'est Coast, General Personnel Investigations, Inc. 
The Anderson c::omoany has since folded. 
NW 50955 Docid:32203846 Page 15 
