13-00000 
_,_: 
. . 
On the 27th of June, a final updated special national intelligence estimate was 
p.repared, and this indicated no basic changes in the security assessment that 
Mexican government was prepared to cope with fores~able security contingencies. 
On the 28th of June, a final briefing report was prepared for the Director's 
use which indicated the security precautions of the Mexican government had 
effectively· forestalled major organized incidents, and our informed estimate 
was that the President would receive a great welcome. 
The report was presented to the President ·personally by the Director at noon 
in a final meeting prior to departure on this trip. 
From the 29th of June to the 2d of July in Washington headquarters, head­
quarters components remained on a 24-hour alert for close support of the 
embassy and the Secret Service. 
So, not only was the Central Intelligence Agency and its various components 
involved in this for a periro of 2 months in close collaboration with the Secret 
Service, but by bringing in the United States Intelllgence Board we brought 
in all of the· intelligence assets of the United States Government in conn·ection 
with this particular trip. -·i thought this procedure which is followed regularly 
on all trips that the President makes out of the country would be of interest 
to the Commission. 
The CHAIRMAN. That is the normal format of your procedures? 
Mr. MoCoNE. .Yes. 
The CHAIRMAN. When the President goes abrbad? 
Mr. MoCoN~ Yes, I selected this one. The same was true of his trip to 
Caracas or Paris or elsewhere. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. McCone, in your investigation of the Oswald matter did 
you use the same approach or a comparable approach to a liaison with the 
other intelllgence agencies of government to try to discover anything that 
might involve your jurisdiction. _ 
Mr. McCONE. Yes. We were in very close touch with the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation and with the Secret .Service on a 24-hour basis at all points, 
both domestic. and foreign, where information had been receivPn which might 
ha v.e a bearing on this problem. 
Mr. RANKIN. Assassination? 
Mr. MoCoNE. Assassination. 
Mr. RANKIN. Do_ you- have an opinion, Mr. McCone, as to whether or not 
the liaison between the intelligence agencies of the United States Government 
might be improved if they had better mechanical, computer or other facilities 
of that type, and also some other ideas or methods of dealing with each other? 
Mr. MoCoNE. There is a great deal of improvement of information that might 
be of importance in· a ·matter of this kind through -the use of computers and 
mechanical means of. handling files, and you, Mr. Ohief Justice, saw some of 
our installations and that was only a beginning of what really can be done. 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes; I did. • 
Mr. MoCoNE. I would certainly urge that all departments of government that 
are involved in -this area adopt the most modem methods_ of automatic data 
processing with respect to the personnel files and other files relating to indi­
viduals. This would be helpful. 
But I emphasize th-at a computer will not replace the man, and therefore, we 
must have at all levels a complete exchange of information and cooperation 
between agencies where they share this responsibility, and in going through • 
this chrQnology, it points out the type of exchange and cooperation that the 
Central Intelligence Agency tries to afford both the Secret Service and the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation in matters where we have a common respon· 
sibility. 
I would like to emphasize the very great importance of this exchange, which 
is not always easily accomplished be(:ause it is cumbersome. 
Sometimes it becomes involved in distracting people from other duties, and 
so on antl so forth. 
I have given a good deal of thought to -the matter of some incentives to bring 
out informers, thinking about the old informer statutes in which some of them 
are still on the books, in which people were rewarded for- informing when others 
conducted themselves in a damaging way. 
125 
