13-00000 
Messrs. Aly and McBride 
June 9, 1997 
Page2 
The Review Board staff is prepared to assist you in making arrangements for a prompt 
and efficient review of these selected papers of Joint Chiefs Lemnibei', Taylor, and 
Wheeler, and the Joint Staff Central Files.2 
Prelimituuy Reoiew of Papers of JCS Chairmen and Joi.nt Staff Centrll.l Files ' 
The Review Board staff has conducted an initial review of the l'eCOrds and has 
tentatively reached the following conclusions: first, the records are very similar in 
subject manner to many other l'eCOrds that already are a part of the JFK Collection; 
second, although the vast majority of the records technically remain classified, there is 
-little remaining sensitivity due to the passage of time and to the release of much of the 
information in other contexts; and third, these papers contain equities .of numerous '. . 
military and non-military agencies, which, under the standarif referral process, would 
be very diffi~t and time-amswning. Thus, the logisticaJ problem in declassifying the 
records is not the continued sensitivity of the records, but the number of agencies that 
will need to review their own equities in the records. For this reason, and for the short 
time-line on which we are now operating, we believe that there is an urgent need to 
make acceptable arrangements for the review and referral of records. 
Proposal 
In order to expedite the process and make it more efficient, we would like to propose-~ 
alternate arrangement for declassification of records that we previously have found 
effective. We suggest the holding of a multi-agency concurrent review of these papers 
of the three aforementioned JCS Chairmen and the JCS Central Files. We would like to 
schedule a single session at our offices, on or before July 23, 1997, w:here all agencies 
with equities in these JCS/Joint Staff papers be concurrently present for a 
declassification review. At such a session, agencies would be able to review their own 
be able to revisit the schedule proposed below. 
2The Joint Staffs Initial Statement of Compliance to the Review Board, dated 
February 6, 1997, identified in detail the process by which these records were located­
namely, which files were searched, and who participated in the searches. Mr. Edmund 
McBride, Chief of the Joint Staff Information: Management Division, indicated in this 
statement that the Joint Staff was standing by to expeditiously process these records for 
declassification in collaboration with other agencies when the ARRB was ready. ARRB 
staff has only recently completed its initial review of these records, which constitute 
selectively ~gged folders within 40 boxes of JCS and Joint Staff l'eCOrds: 
