J.O7R-S 
3. 
4. 
5. 
SECTION 107-SECURITY INFORI1A.NTS AND CONFID.IAL SOURCES. 
Index 
a. Prepare index cards on form FD-348 and file as a.d,ju:nct to criminal 
informa.nt, extremist informant, or security informant index, depending 
on type information fur·nished. 
b. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with criminal 
informant, [extremist ]informant, and s,e·curi ty informant index where 
logical. 
Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to prospective confidential 
source, open 134 file (or 137 for criminal sources) and maintain as 
pending until efforts to develop individual are discontin~ed. 
Utilization . 
a. If confidential source is to be used in security investigations, 
secure Bureau approval, and furnish background data of sa._me type 
Fequired for potentia·1 security informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters in which frequency 
of contact is. dependent upon circumstances, contact confidenti·a1 sources 
on whom pen.ding files are maintained at least once every two weeks. 
Such contacts may be posted. 
c. Conta-cts should only be made by Agent or Agents specifically designated 
for· that purpose. 
d. Letter to Bureau requesting authority to use subject as confidential 
source is to set out clearly: 
(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizen­
ship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest record, 
and service record, if any 
(2) Details of expected c6operation of individual and results of any 
interviews conducted with him 
(3) Statement to effect subject is being considered confidential source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confidential 
nature of his relationship with Bureau. In addition, statement 
should be made that you will be ~lert to be certain subject is 
not a plant, and if he is connected with labor unio•n he will be 
advised of Bureau policy on labor matters. 
(4) One copy o~ letter requesting authority should consist only of 
first page. If request is approved at Bureau, stamped notation 
to this effect will be placed on single-page copy and it will be 
returned to field. • 
6. Security confidential sources - certification of stability and payments. 
a. Every six months submit FD-4O1 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments. See subsection L, item 3b, above. 
b. If sourc~ is not being paid on Bureau authorization or if he is not 
employee of foreign diplomatic establishment or an international o~­
ganization ·and is being used regularly, Agent handling must[certify 
stability and reliability by executing statement on this point 
contained on FD-2.O9 used to r.ecord contact. Cer,tification must be 
made at intervals of no longer than six months.] 
c. If source is employed by fqreign diplomatic establishments (embassy, 
consulate, United Nations Mission, etc.) or by international organiza­
tion (United Nations Secretariat, Organization of American States, 
International Monetary Fund, etc.), submit FD-4O1 to Bureau every 
six months. 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources. 
8. Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau of date when source is discontinued and reasons. 
S. PANEL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Background investigation and approval 
a. Check prospective panel source through office indices, canvass 
( 
( 
' ) 
l 
{ 
I i 
f 
l 
' \ 
t 
l • 
\ 
I 
l ! 
l 
logical informants, review appropriate credit, arrest, and military 
records. Limit credit check of individual to identifying information 
only (name, address, former address, employment, former employment). ( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1756 
22 
11-15-71 
