PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLIC.A.TION·s, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONT.ACTS , 
activities or close association with other persons will be involved in 
unfayo:rable publicity or become the subject of adverse investigative 
activity, or who will capitalize on their friendly association with 
l 
the SAC. • • • ·· • 
4. Except where a sui.table file is already in. existence, a dead file in 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
5. A three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained in an SAC 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the SAC. Each card is to 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
·contain: . 
a, Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telephone numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be received 
d. Any comments which would.be helpful in handling the individual 
e, Date of fir.st contact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
(Show in the lowe~ left c9rner on the front of the card,). 
f .. Dates of contacts by the SAC (t9 be entered on the reverse side of 
the ~ ard in longhand) .... Contacts more frequent than quarterly should 
not be listed. 
g .. Any necessary descriptive data. 
Each contact is t~ be indexed in the gene~al indices. The card is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparation, and the notation, 
"See SAC." 
SAC contacts located in headquarters city must be contacted at least three 
times each year; those lo.cated[in areas regularly covered by road trips 
out of headquarters city or located]in :resident agencies must be. contacted 
at least two times each year. 
Advise Bureau immediately when a contact is discontinued UACB. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city located within another 
field division, a copy-of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
s.hould be designated for that field d'ivisi-on. Also advise field division 
of background information re contact. 
Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of SAC contacts. 
Each office must submit a complete roster of ·s.AC contacts to reach the . 
Bureau by the first w~ek of May and November each year, If there are 
any changes in address, employment, or other pertinent data, such informa­
tion should be set forth. If there is no change in status, so state. 
From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprints of speeches 
and other material to assist in making them more "FBI minded" and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us, Any indi·cation that such 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay, 
Immediately upon assuming the duties of. SAC, such SAC should visit all 
persons listed as SAC contacts and in addition leading officials located 
in ~he field division. 
8 
11-28-60 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 334 
\ 
J 
( 
( 
I 
