[ 
-[ 
[ 
[ 
87H 
9. 
~ .. -. ~--··-··--- .... -~ ........ -_,,,. ...... 
SECTION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS 
Position and importance of subject in subversive movement 
Pertinent background information 
Include only information pertinent to determining.whether or 
not subject is engaged in subversive activities. Set out date 
or period to which it pertains; e.g., John Doe advised on 
January 15, 1970, that subject attended GP meetings in January, 
1965, in Syracuse, New York. • 
c. Summarizing information 
.. I t, ,?,-
(1) -when prior summary reports are not suitable f·or di"ssemihation; 
include all pertinent information in current summary report with 
sources ·fully protected. • 
(2) Repetitious and cumulative items may be limited to representative 
number with each item set forth fully documented. Number of 
i terns will de pend upon preponderance of other inf ormat± on .sh·owing 
dangerousness of subject. Base selection on need to report suf­
ficient data to justify continued detention of subject if ap­
prehended. 
(3) When selection of representative number of items is made, follow 
with summary statement that source advised during specified 
period of time subject also attended certain number of other 
meetings. (Set out file number .and serial range i.n docum~nting 
such statements.) 
(4) Where there is extensive activity ,in subversive organizations, 
• it is permissible to use narrative statements without exact 
da..tes of activity; however, show period of time involved e:nd 
inclusive dates of informant reports. Do not use this type re­
porting in Smith Act of 1940 or ISA-50 cases. Summary statements 
must be statements of facts and not conclusions. Information 
from different sources must be reported separately. 
(5) Above instructions do not lessen responsibility for reporting 
all pertinent items. 
Administrative data - cover pages 
a. General 
References to following administrative items should be in cover pages 
accompanying reports: 
(1) Reserve index, security index, file ·numbers and titles of other 
cases, prio.ri ty apprehension program, top f.unctionary status, 
security index flash .notices {FD-165), FD-122, FD-128, and non­
investigative information 
(2} [In all security index cases, FD-305, _appropriately fille.d out, 
shall be the last page of cover pages to annual reports and the 
last page of cover communications to LHMs submitted in lieu of 
annual reports.] 
b. • Documentation of reports 
(1} Complete documentation of all reports is re·quired. This also 
applies to LHMs submitted in priority III cases.· 
(2} If information necessary for complete documentation is not in 
subject's file, review other office files, as needed. If not 
obtainable, so state in cover pages. ' 
(3} Do.not conduct extensive investigation to locate sources who 
previously furnished background information for purpose·s of 
documentation or to obtain documentary evidence of background 
information. For example, if previous investigation revealed 
subject, according to reliable records, such as birth, school, 
or Immigration and Naturalization records, was born 3.t certain 
place on certain date, report it without further verification . 
.../ 
( 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1971 
c::n 
-l 
i I 
' I 
i i ! ! 
• I 
.! 
I ! 
i 
I 
