i' •. I 
' • ' ·., 
Wimert!insisted that the kidnapping be completed before he paid the 
money. (Task Force Log, 20 October) At the same time General Valenzuela 
assured Colonel Wimert that the military was now prepared to move. (Task 
Force Log, 20 October) The second abduction attempt 0n the 20th also 
failed and the Task Force concluded 
Since Valenzuela's group is apparently having 
considerable difficulty executing even the first 
step of its coup plan, the prospects for a coup 
succ2,~ding or even occurring before 24 October 
now appears remote. (Task Force Log, 22 October) 
E. The Killing of General Schneider 
In the early morning hours of October 22 (2 am), Colonel Wimert 
delivered the three submachine guns with ammunition to the Army Lt. 
Colonel in an isolated section of Santiago.* 
*Although Colonel Wimert's testimony and the cable traffic do not 
clearly establish the identity of the group to which the Lt. Colonel 
was ·affiliated (see page 31) two CIA statements on Track II tie the 
weapons, and therefore the Lt. Colonel, to the.Valenzuela group: 
... The only assistance requested by Valenzuela 
t_o set the plan /~f October 19/ into motion 
through Schneidei 1 s abduction-was several sub­
machine guns, ammunition, a few tear gas grenades 
and gas masks (all of which were provided) plus 
$50,000 for expenses (which was to be passed upon 
demand. 
(CIA Report on Chilean Task Force Activities, 
18 November 1970, p. 22) 
... Three sub-machine guns, together with six gas 
cannisters and masks, were passed to the Valen­
zuela group at 2 am on 22 October. The reason 
why they still wanted the weapons was because 
there were two days remaining before the Congress 
decided the Presidential election and· _the Valen­
zuela group maintained some hope they could still 
carry out their plans. ( • 
1 
(CIA Briefing raper, "Special Mandate from the 
President on Chile," p. 7, July 15, 1975) 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 475 
~ ►'- • ' • 
r\ 
(~/ .. 
-
' ~,: 
i,:..: 
r· 
-
