/ 
; 
'- / 
January 15, 1960 
PROT:£01.'ING IDENTITY OF CONFIDEllTIAL. INFOP-MANTS 
CONFRONTATION ISSUE 
The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments on two 
cases involving hearings and the right of confrontation on 
January,18, 1960. The cases involve Hannah uso Larche and 
Hannah vs. Slawson. Solicitor General Rankin will argue the cases 
J~r the Government. 
\ 
The cases involve the President 1s Civi"l Rights Commission 
which was established by the Federal Ciui.l Rights -Act oj' 1957 
to investigate charges of citizens being discriminatorily deprived 
of the right to vote. The q:uestion raised j'or the Supreme Court 
1:S whether the Civil Rights ·Act of' 1957 authorizes the Civil Rights 
Commission to conduct hearings wherein state registrars and 
private citizens accused of depriving others oj' the •right to vote 
are denied noti,ce oj' charges agai,nst them and conj•rontation. 
Al though the hearings held by the Giu il Rights 
Commission are investigative rather than judicial or punitive 
such as the normal Government hearing, the argument and the 
Supreme Court decision in these ccses could shed some li,ght 
on the issue of confrontation as·well as the investigative agency 1s 
right to protect· the identity oj' conj'identi,al i,nj'ormants. Thi,s 
is particularly true in view oj' the current negotiations to 
produce an Executjve Order in relation to the Industrial Security 
Program. 
I 
These are the two cases which the "Washington Post" 
commen·ted upon editorial.Iy on December 14, 1959, supporting the 
Civil Rights Commissi-on 1s hearing procedures in that it was . 
II 
ne.cessary that the Commission pro·t;ect their con/idential informan·/;s 
j'rom reprisals by segregation is ts. The "Ifash i,ngton Evening Star" 
on January 11, 1960, in reporting the Attorne7.1 General- 1s j'irst 
trip to. argue a case before the Supreme Court on -the constitutional tty 
of the Federal Civil Rights Act commented that the above cases would 
prove more diJ:ficult for the Government to argue and obtain a 
J~vorable decision. 
,., .' 
I • ,•~~~ 
'. ·, 
1· :'.:' 
