The Women's National Abortion 
Action Coalition 
"Th3.t the National Office of WONJ\AC pledged 
$1,500 to the defen~e of the seven women arrested in 
Chicago because of their alleged activity in abortion 
counselling, 1•eferral _. and procedure .. ". 11 
"Tm.t the i'JONAAC Hational Office ma2J.ntain;· •• 
at all times, a fund-raising staff efficient enough 
to meet the needs of the emergency fund at the same 
time it raises sufficient capital to maintain the daily 
expenses of the National Office and staf'fo .. 11 
Confidential tlource number two related that the 
evening plenary session of WONAAC occurred on July 15, 1972, 
and it was immediutely apparent that the Socialist · 
Workers Party - Young Soa1a11st Alliance (SWP-YSA) group 
dominated the meeting. Independent women who wanted to mal<:e 
statements during this session were voted down by SWP floor 
leaders and these same persons continued to vote as a bloc 
on all issues. 
The group of independent women from various geogra-
phic areas, that is those women who were not associated with the 
SWP or YSA, went together after the plenary session was adjourned 
and considered the problem of.how to handle the SWP leaders. 
While these women were not political realists in· their goals, 
they did believe in working throughout the existing system 
rather than functioning with the SWP in their eventual goal 
of revolution. 
. 
It was decided that the independent femini~ts would 
no longer continue has0.1ing within WONAAC. They did not want 
to have decisions for them being structured by a male dominated 
group. rrhey also decided that money being col lee ted by WONAAC 
in the name of abortion law change was not being used tor that 
purpose, but rather to sustain members of the SWP-YSA. 
The Sunday morning session, July 16, 1972, was 
labeled "Meeting to Discuss Internal Has3les. 11 About 35 
inq:ependents attended and a few numbe·r of SWP-YSA members and 
sympathizers were present. Independents there were from New 
Haven, Boston, Detroit, New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, and 
San F1~ancisco.· 
-6-
CON.J:t'IDENTIAL 
NW 88321 Dodd:32989545 Pag'.e 403 
