.. 
·- ..... ·-.. -. 
• The following. two articles by RUFUS WALLS,·_. 
who is the Minister of Information, Chicago Chapter 
BPP, appeared in the first spring semester edition 
·of the f'Phoenix",-an underground-type newspaper 
published by Negro m:i.li·tants. at Crane ·Junior College, . 
2250 West ·Van Buren,· Chicago, Illinois. •• The newspaper 
was distributed on Crane campus on February 12, , 1969. 
"BLACK CAPITALISM 
"First we must u·nderstand the true term used for 
' Capitalism. It denotes the economic system set up by 
Flanders in the 13th century and Florene~ in the 14th 
century which mainly was ·1ong distance trading .. ·Their· 
histories shed light on the conditions as developed 
by the total Western World._ The English woolen in­
dustry really spearheaded Capitalism as.a social and 
economic system for private profit until it became the 
roots of all evils. The selfish owners expanded 
their means of production hy creatin~ civil wars, 
murdering.and raping Asia, Africa; Latin America and 
.even their own motherland while America assisted ih 
the most barbaric· acts ever per,petrated . by ~_an! 
"Under Capitalism, all decisions concerning pro­
duction and who will get the profit is always made 
by . t he r i ch ( s i c) I n A mer i ca , • it is a hand f u 1 of 
~hite Anglo-Saxons (JOHNSONS, 'KENNEDYS, ROCKEFELLERS, 
and a few more) who are making decisions for.all ethnic 
• .. _•groups. Under Capitalism, the working class.(95%) 
have no choice but to sell their energy or better yet 
their backs for token economic gains. In order to be 
a Capitalist, one must have capital and Black People 
- have no capital nor own any means of production. 
We are a Capita list people,! We are a land less people! 
We are the poorest of the ,poor! Why are we in this 
bag? Histori~ally· the·Black ~olony was cieated for_ 
the purpose of super-exploiiation. Being a product . -_ .. 
of the system--a system that enslaved our forefather--a. 
system that burned Black people alive, lynched and 
I . 
6 -
