< 
• 
( 
... 
0 
[ 
[ 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
S:E:CTION 107. e:GURITY _INFORMANTS AND GONFIDEl-lL SOURCES 107M 
Subfiles 
a. A subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality ma,tters where a 
subfile is necessary only in those instances involving possible 
prosecution. The orig:i:nal of each sta·tement, whether personally 
written by the informant- or furnished orally and reduoed to writing 
by contacting Agent, should be filed in this subfile. Executed form 
FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
set forth on form FD-306 should. be stapled to the original of each 
such statement. 
b, Jioles may be p.unched in original statements of informants for secure 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration 9f any_ portion 
of statements or notations thereon. 
Channelization 
Excerpts from the informantts statement are to be included in the regular 
investigative case report when information of value is submitted. Form 
FD-306 may be used to disseminate this information to the case file in 
lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired. If so used, prepare 0opies 
of FD-306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy 
of the informant 4 s statement being channelized. Channelization should be 
noted on ori..rinal FD-:-306 and on all copies under "Remarks. 11 
Ghanneliz~ng memoranda - destruction of 
For instructions concerning the destruction of channelizing memoranda, 
see Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
Disseminat·ion of information 
Information submitted by informan·ts, potential info-rmants, confidential 
sources, or sources of information should be reported to the Bureau and 
interested offices and other agencies whenever necessary by the appro­
priate means of communication under captions showing the subject matter 
of the information. 
Correspondence 
Correspondence submitted in security informant and potential security 
informant matters should .be strictly limited to the administrative 
handling of the informant and should not contain information more prop­
erly furnished to the Bureau under a substantive case caption. 
Maintenance of files-
a. All pending files on security informants shall be maintained under 
lock and. key under the p·ersonal supervision of the SAC, ASAC, or field 
supervisor as the informant indices are maintained and described in 
subsection K. 
b, Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in the open 
files section, prqvided there is no disclosure of the informant 1 s 
identiti on the statement~. 
o, All informan·t files should be maintained in such a manner as to insu:r-e 
that all information furnished by a particular informant will be 
immediately available upon the request of the Bureau. 
d~ In ~ddition, these files should be maintained in such a fashion that 
the identities of the cases in which an informant has furnished 
competent evidence can be furnished immediately to the Bureau by 
simply referring to the file of the .informant and without the necessity 
of conducting extensive re search. • 
Use of informan~ by j)epartment - filing ~<?rre.spondence re . 
From time to time,, the Department expresses an interest in using a partic­
ular informant for testifying wp.en he ,becomes availa'l:ile as. a witness. 
As a result, there wiil b~ correspondence showing this situation between 
the Bureau and the field. Place copies of all such correspondence in 
the informant Is file. Occas-ionally such correspondence may be volu­
minous and apply to more than one informant. In those oases, summarize 
the information concerning eaclt particular informant a.nd place the i;:1lm.TJ1ary 
in the appropriate informant f s :'ile • .. 
Form FD-238 
Form FD-238 {printed on pink paper) has been approved fo~ use in seo·~~~ii;y 
informant and potential security informant files. It is ·to b~ used ic 
the nature of a table of contents or as an index to show where in the 
file particular data can be found. This form is to· be kept as the top 
17 
4-15-63 
\ NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1555 
