6J - K P.ART II 
SECTION 6.· •'PUBLICATIONS; PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
;referred to -Bureau by local law enf·orcement agencies. or wh~re Bureau:·· 
fugitives· are taken into custody·by local law enforcement officers. 
"They should also be advised of vi·olat'i<;>hs of local.laws coming to the 
attention of the .FBI. •. • • • • •• 
b. Visits to Washington.. .. . . 
' ..... 
When the fie-ld requ:es-ts special courtesies be afforded·c·ez:tain indi­
viduals;· including law e·nforceinent officers, coming-- to Washington, Do C., 
the communication so advising the Bureau_ shall contain biographical 
data and a brief sumr.1ary of information in the:field office f~les con-
cerning the visitor. •• • • '· .,, 
When law enforcement executives are cont_emplating a visit:to the Bureau 
at Washington, D.· c·;, ask them to call at· the o:ffice of the Assistant 
.... .'Director, Training and Inspection Di vis ion, Room 5256, .Just;i.ce Building~ 
. -:--c. Letters of· c6mm:endati6n, ·congratulations-, appreciation, a·nd 
condolence • • 
When letters of commendat'ion·; congratulat:ions, appreciation, or 
condolence from the Director are recommended by the field, such .. 
recommendations should be submitted promptly. They should'·include 
the specific facts on which the recommendat.ion~ is ·based, full .. • identi­
fying data and addr·ess-of t·he citizen, and..the·result'o:(.a search of 
the field office indices concerning the citizen. In connection with 
, :. •the election o:f offic·ers of police -associations at ·conventions cover-
... ing·more·than o:o.e<field div~sion territoryj the field divisi'op. in 
whose territory the convention was physically held is ·resp·o:o.sible for 
submitting any recommendations for lette:r:s • of congratulations·~ The 
office submitting· such request should summarize briefly the relations 
with.these·• officers, --incorporating any derSg_a tory data which might 
.preclude.suclJ.·letters. Inasmuch as the recommending office is not 
likely to possess-all data, pettinerit'otlier field divisiqns should 
submit a bri'ef;.supplemental sulll!liary concerning·officers. recommended 
for lett·ers who reside· in their territory.· ••• .. 
[ 4. 
[ 
[Inquiries concerning ·status of Bureau cases· • .. 
When. a state official has- expr-es·sed interest in the prosecutive status 
of a Bureau case, for a legitimate r~ason, such as deferment of state 
prosecution pending the outcome of the Federal case, insure that such 
official is kept appropriately advised, including the final outcome 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
5. 
of the matter.] 
u. s. Cabinet officers, Senators, and Congressmen 
If an SAC receives an inquiry from a Cabinet officer or u. s. Senator or 
Congressmai1 concerning an official ma.tter, it should be brought to the 
Bureau's.attention immediately. 
K. SOURCES OF INFORMATION 
Definition 
.An individual, orianization, or conce.rn willingly furri.ishing information to em­
ployees frequently enough to justify making a record where the source need not 
be protected. If occasionally the source must be protected, this 'may be done. 
If sources must be constantly concealed, they become informants or confidential 
sou,_rces and must be· handled as such. 
1. Index 
Index card (3 by 5 inches) must be made up to contain: 
·ao Names 
b.. Address es 
c. Organization or concern 
d. Type of information furnished 
eo Date of develop~ent 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 351 
6 
1-29-62 
' 
I 
I 
i 
( 
( 
