13-00000 
-3-
categories of lnfonnation exempt from release (aHhough the clear articulation of 
such categories is important), but the allocation of the burden of proof to the 
party that seeks to exempt information from ·release. 
Because these four points are Inextricably Interconnected, I will discuss them In 
reference to our work and to a series-of documents that are attached as exhibits to this 
testimony. 
During the past four years, I have spent hundreds of hours talking with officials 
from -more than a dozen agencies and reviewing memoranda that argue against the 
r~lease of certain types of classified Information. It has been my general Impression 
that the officials making such arguments are Intelligent, conscientious, competent, and 
hardworking. (I also have had the general impression that they have sought to be 
cooperative with the Review Board and that they have made good-faith efforts to 
comply with the JFK Act.) Orie nevertheless cannot help but observe a deep-seated, 
institutional reluctance to release information - particularly on the part of those 
institutions that were created for the purposes of collectlng secret lnfonnatlon and 
preserving secrets. 
In order to facilitate declasslflcatlon, S. 712 requires agencies to articulate their 
reasons for initial classiflcatlons and for exemptions from declassification. For example, 
Section 4(c)(2)(A) would require the agency to "provide In writing a detailed justification 
141004 
for [an initial classification] decision.!! -Slmllarly,-with-regarctto1he 3~year review~ • • ------• 
agencies would "certi(fy] to the President at the end of such 30-year period that 
continued protection of the I nfonnatlon from unauthorized disclosure is essential to the 
national security o(the United States .... • (Sect. 4(d)(2)). The talented officials who 
are hired by the agencies will be able to provide such explanations and such 
justifications. The issue from my perspective is not whether agencies are able to .. 
artic4late such justifications, but to what extent their Justifications can withstand 
scrutiny. Let me provide some examples where Initial Justifications for withholding 
infonnatlon did not withstand scrutiny. 
Illustration 1. See Exhibit A. The first Illustration is a CIA cable dated November 
27, 1963, that has now been released in full. As you can see,. the second line of typed 
text Includes the crypts (or cryptonyms) "RYBA,-■ and "GPFLOOR.• These crypts 
appear in what Is called the "slug line• and they are routing and sensltMty Indicators. 
"GPFLOOR• Is the crypt that refers to Lee Harvey Oswald. This same crypt appears in 
the first line of the second paragraph of text. The CIA originally advised that GPFLOOR 
could not be released In the slug· line although It could be released In the text of the 
cable. I had several discussions with agency ofoolals as they tried to explain why 
GPFLOOR could be released in one place but not in the other. I could not understand 
their explanations. At that time I was new to the work and I did not know whether I was 
simply not bright enough or experienced enough to understand the explanation being 
• offered. I again raised the question in a later meeting with severaJ agency officials that 
