. ,, 
. , 
DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING 
UNITED.STATES POLICY. IN 
VIE'INAM, . WASHINGTON, 'D. C. 
JANUARY 15, 1~68 
CON FI DEN TIAL 
Just prior to the opening of the'above program, 
a group entitled "Radical Women's Group from New York" 
put on a skit which included the bringing in of a stretcher 
indicating that it was ·the body of a dead soldier. On• • 
the stretcher was a telegram of regrets and it was stated 
that there would later be a mock burial of the above· 
"corpse." 
. '• 
1 
The program of the Congress of American Women • 
began with.Pearl Willen of New York acting as the.presiding 
officer. She made announcements to the effect that there 
was much literature on the tables and that workshops would 
be held both tonight and the following day. She welcomed 
representatives froni .forty states to the gathering and •• 
stated that they now need to go from the great society 
to the just society. Mrs ... Willen introduced the two 
Co~Chairmen of the Congress as t~s. Coretta King of 
Georgia and Mrs. Mary Clark of Los Angeles, California, 
who were both present and acknowledged the introduction·o 
The first speaker on the program was Mrs. Vivian 
Hallinan of San Francisco, California, who described the. 
development of the coalition of women which had developed 
into the JRB. She said the JRB had been conceived in 
California last yea.r after the sta 1:;emen t by Mrs. Rankin 
concerning what the women could do to stop the war. 
Hallinan- described the JRB's goal as "world without war" 
and "life with digll'ity and opportunities to develop our 
maximum capacity. 11 
The next speaker on ·the program was Mrs .. Martin 
Luther King, Jr., who was initially introduced as Coretta 
King. Mrs. King stated that she was greatly encouraged b_y 
the growth of the peace movement and that she was totally 
opposed.to the brutal slaughter in Vietnam. She stated that 
the women must use all of their power to stop that war. 
CON FI DEN ';L'IAL 
- 6 -
NW 88321 Dodd:32989544 Page 300 
