13-00000 
APR 04 '97 10:13AM 
56 Md. L. Rev. 1, *36 
(b) An assassination record further includes, without limitation: 
(l) All records as defined in Section 3(2) of the JFK Act; 
PAGE 40 
(2) All records collected by or segregated by all Federal. state. and local 
government agencies in conjunction with any investigation or analysis of or 
inquiry into the assassination of President Kennedy (for example, any 
intra-agency investigation or analysis of or inquiry into the assassination; any 
interagency communication regarding the assassination;_ any request by the House 
Select Committee on Assassinations to·collect documents and other materials; or 
any inter- or intra~agency collection or segregation of documents and other 
materials); 
(3) Other records or groups of records listed in the Notice of Assassination 
Record Designation, as described in 1400.8 of chis chapcer. 
1400.2 Scope of additional records and information. 
The term addi cional records and information incl.ti.des: 
(a) All documents used by government offices and agencies during their 
declassification review of assassination records as well as all other documente, 
indices, and other material (including but not limited to those that.disclose 
cryptonyms, code names, or other identifiers that appear in assassination 
records) that the Assassination Records Review Board·· (Review Board) has a 
reasonable basis to believe may constitute an assassination record or would 
assist in the identification. evaluation or interpretation of an assassination 
record. The Review Board will identify in writing those records and other 
materials it intends to seek under this section. 
(b) All training manuals, instructional materials, and guidelines created or 
used by the agencies in furtherance of their review of assassination rec~rds. 
(c) All records, lists, and documents describing the procedure by which the 
agencies identified or selected assassination records for review. 
(d) Organizational charts of govern.rnent agencies. 
(e) Records necessory and sufficient to describe the a~ency's: 
(1) Records policies and schedules; 
(2) Filing systems and organization; 
(3) Storage facilities and locations; 
(4) Indexing symbols, marks, codes, instruc~ions, guidelines, methods, and 
procedures; 
(5) Search methods and pro~edures used in the performance of the agencies' 
duties under the JFK Act; and 
(6) Reclassification to a higher level, transfer, destruction, or other 
information (e.g., theft) regarding the status of assassination records. 
P.40/44 
.,. 
