I 
r 
,I ACK Ai\ IJEltSOi\ i 
lot to kill l 
• 0 
l§Slll .er 
blocked 
WASHINGTON - A reported plot to assassinate Sec­
retary of State Henry Kissinger in Costa Rica six months 
ago was blocked by US and Costa Rican :authoritie~ four ' 
days before it was supposed to be carried out. 
We have pieced together the story from secret testimo­
. ny before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee and 
from interviews with Cuban exiles and TJS intelligence 
sources. • 
. l, 
A Cuban terrorist named Orlando Bosch Avila was re-'! 
ported to be gunning for Kissinger. The attempt on the\,; 
Secretary's life was expected. according to underground l 
reports, during his visit to Costa Rica last February. 
• Shortly before Kissinger's arrival, Bosch slipped into 
Costa Rica on a false passport. But the FBI and Secret Ser• 
vice had been alerted. They traced Bosch's movements and 
notified the Costa Rican authorities. The suspected assas• 
sin was arrested and clapped into a tiny jail cell four days 
before Kissinger got to town. 
The plot to kill Kissinger apparently grew out of his 
overtures to improve relations with Cuba's Fidel Castro 
back in 1972. This reportedly upset an anti-Castro terrorist 
band. known as Cuban Action, which Bosch headed. • 
We reported part of the story two years later after it 
lengthy investigation in Miami. In columns on Sept. 1 and 
Nov. 12, 1974, we warned that anti-Castro terrorists 
planned an "assassination ... against American congress­
men and businessmen who supported a ... thaw." We noted 
that Kissinger had been in touch with Castro; • 
The first hint that Kissinger, himself, was one of the 
targets came later from Carlos Rivero Collado, son of the 
man elected to the presidency of Cuba in 1958. Rivero was 
active in the anti-Castro underground in Miami's little 
Havana. But he later re-defected to Cuba where he gave a 
. fascinating interview. 
"I have known privately since 1972," he said, "{about) 
the plan to a.ssassinate the US Secretary of State." He said 
the plot had'· taken "certain form" by 1973 and had been 
"actualized" by 1974. • 
Then,· in a reference to our 1974 columns, he added: 
"This fact which, I repeat, I've known privately, has been 
corroborated by the US journalist Jack Anderson.'' -· -· ., . • 
lffl 50955 Id -32423630 
DOC • 
RivC'ro nilmed Bnsch as one of the Ill ilnli-Ca~ln> !, 
crs who had conspired to kill US and other leaders pron 
ing a. Cuban-Americ:m dNente. Bosch already had b, 
convicted in 1968 of shelling a Polish freighter with a , 
•. zooka while it was moored in Miami. He jumped Fede. 
parole and fled to Venezuela ir 1974. . 
Months later, he was reported to be in Curacao, pr 
tected by Chilean gunmen. He bragged, according to tl 
reports, of his "money, friends and protection." 
Florida's Dade County Public Safety Department, b, 
cause of the huge Cuban population in Miami, has excellen 
ties throughout Latin America. In early 1976. tbe county': 
terrorist expert, Lt:Thomas Lynch, picked up some electri­
fying news. 
He told the Senate Subcommittee about it in secret tes• 
timony: "We received information from confidential sourc­
es," he swore, "that there was going to be an attempt on the 
life of Secretary of State Henry Kissinger ... We passed the 
information on to the FBI, and they had also received the 
information, and· we notified the Secret Service, as they. 
have the protective duty for the Secretary of State." . . • 
The plot was linked to Kissinger's two-day stay in Cos­
ta Rica, and Bosch was picked up and questioned. He was 
2 held on a false passport charge until Kissinger was safely 
out of the country. 
Bosch later insisted: "My only crime was entering th~ 
country with a false passport." Cert(lin!y, it was never .. 
proved in court that he hoped to knock off Kissinger. He is 
now at large somewhere in Latin Am<!rica. • 
..... ) -- '.•.•j.,, 
