-9-
McCone testified that he met privately with the President and 
the Attorney General, taking the position that "our role was 
to assemble all information on intelligence. as to what was 
going on and to report.it to the appropriate authorities, but 
to not attempt to direct it" (McCone, p. 62). He believed the 
United States should maintain a "hands off attitude" (McCone, 
p. 62). McCone testified: 
"I felt that the President agreed with my position, des­
pite the fact that he had great reservations concerning 
Diem and his conduct. I urged him to try to bring all 
the pressure we could on Diem to change his ways, to 
encourage more support throughout the country. My precise 
words to the President, and I remember them very clearly, 
was that Mr. President, if I was manager of~ baseball 
team, I had one pitcher, I'd keep him :Ln the box whether 
he was a good pitcher or not. By that I was saying that, 
if Diem was removed we would have not one coup but we 
would have a succession of coups and political disorder 
in Vietnam and it might last several years and indeed 
it did." (McCone, pp. 62-63.) 
McCone stated that he did not discuss assassination with 
the President, but rather "whether we should let the coup go 
or use our influences not to". He left the meeting believing 
that the President agreed with his "hands off" recommendation 
(McCone, pp. 62-63). McCone cabled Smith on October 6: 
"f•1cCone directs that you withdraw recor:1r:1endat.ion to 
ambassad6r (concerning assassination plan) under McCone 
instructions, as we cannot be in position actively con-
doning such course of action and thereby enqaging our 
responsibility thereforeu (CIA to Saigon, DIR 73661, 10/6/63). 
In response, the CIA Station in Saigon cabled headquarters: 
"Action taken as directed. In addition, since DC.1 
'l'rueheart \·:as also present when original recommendation 
was mc1de, specific 1·1i thdrawal of recornmenda tion at McCone' s 
instruction was also conveyed to Trueheart. Arnb0.ssador 
Loc19e cor,trnented that he shares McCone' 3 opinion." (Saigon 
to CIA, SAIC 1463, 10/7/63) 
mt 50955 Docld.: 32423.')39 Page .'JOO 
