r TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS.RUFF IDEALIST 
right. Finally, it should be not~d that there is a 
long history of CIA efforts to obtain better photo­
graphy on deck cargoes and faster servi~e in returning 
.these pictures to Washington. 
7. • The Checklist reported the accumulating informa­
tion fully to the President. On 4 August, it stated 
that "Eleven Soviet ships are on their way to Havana 
and we strongly suspect they are barrying arms. Such 
a delivery would not be far short of the total amount 
of arms delivered in the-first half of 1962." On 
9 August, it said "Soviet shipments to Cuba have been 
arriving on an unprecedented scale since mid-July. Some 
32 vessels are involved; at least half of these we be-lieve 
to be carrying arms. Five passenger ships with a total 
capacity of about 3,000 persons have already arrived. 
Some of the personnel are said to.be Soviet technicians, 
and we have no reason to doubt this. We do not believe 
there _are any combat troops ·among them." 
8. The DCI on 8 AlJgust briefed the Republican Policy 
Committee, emphasizing the arrival.of Soviet military 
equipment and technicians .. Two days later, at a MONGOOSE 
meeting, he again stressed the importance of this intel­
ligence and raised questions as to what purpose was behind 
the sudden movement of men and materiel. He said that 
the United States must face the possibility of the USSR 
locating -MRBMs in Cuba as a step that it could justify 
because of US missile bases in places like Itaiy and 
Turkey. 
9~ Soviet operations in August involved primarily 
the establishment of surface-to-air missile and coast 
defense missile positions. By the middle of August 
CIA was receiving a large ·volume of agent and refugee 
reporting which, while understandably garbled and 
fragmentary, enabled analysts to pinpoint areas of con­
struction and identify some of the equipment coming in. 
On 18 August, the Checklist reported "There are grounds 
for thinking that the large influx of Soviet military 
equipment and technicians into Cuba lately could be 
connected with the beginning of construction of surface­
to-air ~issile sites. What we know so far is -that 
the shipments have included quantities of electronic, 
transportation and construction equipment,.some of it 
similar to Soviet equipment which showed up in Indonesia 
for the building of SAM installationsf and that many of the 
arriving Soviets are construction personnel ... " There were 
further Checklist items along th~ same line on 23 and 28 
August. 
-4- Pl1-0toropy 
;'rom -.. 
-- - - - --
·I 
-Gerald R. ~ Ulraly 
