St:CRET 
23. Although the National Archives are the repository for the 
Kennedy assassination documents, the FBI and the CIA are 
responsible for restricting research. Much of the 300 cubic. feet 
of documents have been printed, a reclassification in 1971 has 
released 3, 000 pages, and the CIA later released more, but none of 
the material released has created any sensation. The Freedom 
of Information Act is not as liberal on assassination material as on 
other matters. Some material was not even turned over to the 
Warren Commission. The FBI and the Justice Department are alone 
in knowing the results of some tests. 
• I• 
4'.='"..:-·- 24. ·1n the non-governmental area, much has been published, 
and the book by Peter Noyes must be singled out particularly. 
25. Speech by Mr. Robert Hanson. Mr. Hanson has become 
the counsel_ for Sirhan Sirhan. He studied to become an engineer 
and then shifted to law. (To judge from the number of cases which 
he says he has lost, heshouldhave remained an engineer instead of 
becoming an attorney.) 
Mr. Hanson said that the Sirhan case is pretty hopeless. 
The trial was based on a 100 per cent belief in Sirhan' s guilt. 
Therefore important witnesses were r1ot called, and no attention 
was paid to ballistics. Scientific study, however, indicates that 
Sirhan Sirhan may not even have been the person who committed 
the crime. But even if it is proved that his gun did not kill 
Robert Kennedy, this discovery may have no influence upon Sirhan's 
case. California officials have no desire to reopen the case and 
funds to handle the proceedings are lacking. A book by Tiger on 
the case is worthy of note. Tiger claims that Sirhan Sirhan was 
acting under hypnotic influence. 
26. Speech by James Lesar. Mr. Lesar, who spoke on the 
Martin Luther King assassination, declared that Ray was innocent, 
and that the FBI and the Justice Department were responsible for 
wrongly solving the crime. Ray was framed by conspirators. The 
persons presently involved in Watergate played a role in the Ray 
case investigation. No private agency - only a government agency -
can solve the Ray case. All depends on whether the judiciary acts 
honestly or with political consideration in mind. As it sta~ds today, 
we see Ray's rights having been abominably violated: we see lawyers 
who did not do their job; and we see nothing approaching an open 
·hearing. 
6 • 
.SECRET 
