• • 
I told Wallach that I could not remember dates 
and other details of my relationship with Jaffee,but that 
information responsive to his questions could be found 
recorded in FBI files as I had prepared detailed memos 
reflecting all of my contacts with Jaffee. I told Wallach 
that if he were entitled to the information he w~s seeking, 
I'd suggest that he get hold of the file on Jaffee. Wallach 
said he understood my position, but that before going through 
the process of getting a file "they" liked to talk to a few 
individuals to see if information the Committee had was 
worth pursuing. 
Wallach acknowledged that it would not be possible 
for me to furnish specific information, such as dates, after 
the passage of such a long period of time. Thereafter, in 
response to inquiry, he was told that Jaffee was in contact 
with many diplomatic officials, including Soviets, in his 
capacity as a CBS newsman. I could not specifically remember 
how this information came to the Bureau's attention. I did 
have some background information on Jaffee and it was necessary 
for me eo get permission before I could interview him. He 
was told that I did not know specifically who authorized the 
interview. 
Wallach wanted to know what approach was used 
during the initial interview with Jaffee. He was told that 
I could not specifically recallihis information, but uhat 
John Willis and I conducted the interview. Both of us were 
keenly aware of the FBI's policy of not interfering with the 
Freedom 0f the Press and we wanted to make sure that Jaffee 
understood this. We also wanted to make sure that Jaffee 
understood that we did not want to place him in a difficult 
or embarrassing position by talking to him and that if he 
found our presence to be a problem we would leave immediately. 
He was told that Jaffee proved to be most cooperative and that 
thereafter we were in contact with Jaffee frequently. Wallach 
wanted to know how often and he was told that sometimes we 
were in contact with him two or three times a week, once 
every two weeks, or perhaps once a month. He was told that 
all contacts were recorded in writing in the file, along with 
the results of the contact. 
Concerning in~ormation which Jaffee furnished, 
Wallach was told that Jaffee furnished information concerning 
c~rrent events of major and minor importance on the inter­
national scene, which came to his attention as a result of 
... 2 -
NW 38326 Docld:32989653 167 
