mt 
-/-
However;,·-n6ne of; th~ CIA officers believed that assassination was within (' •. .' •. ·, 
. . \ .• ~ . 
guidelines Helms had been given. 
~-.. i 
Senator Hart of Colorado .... did the kind of carte 
blanche mandate you carried, the marshall's baton 
~hat you carried out in a knapsack, to stop Allende 
from assuming office, include physical elimination? 
Mr. Helms. Well, not in my mind, because when I be­
came Director, I had already made up my mind that we 
weren't going to have any of that business when I ·was 
Director, and I_ had made that clear to my fellows, and 
I think they will tell you this. 
The following day, September 16, Director Helms called a meeting 
at the CIA to discuss the Chilean situatioh. At this meeting, he re­
lated to his colleagues his understanding of the President's instruc-
tions: 
2. The Director told the group that President 
Nixon had decided that an Allende-regime in Chile 
was unacceptable to the United States. The Presi­
dent asked the Agency to prevent Allende from com­
ing to power or to unseat him. The President 
authorized $10,000,000 for this purpose, if needed. 
Further, the Agency is to carry out this mission 
without coordination with the Departments of State 
er Defense. 
(Memorandum/Genesis of the Project, 16 Sept. 1970) 
Henry Kissinger's recollection of the September 15 meeting with 
President Nixon is in accord with that of Richard Helms! Although 
Dr. Kissinger did not recall the President's instructions to be as 
precise as those related by Director Helms, he did testify that: 
* 
... the primary thrust of the September 15th meeting 
was to urge Helms to do whatever he could to prevent 
Allende from being seated. (Kissinger testimony, p. 13) 
*** 
The documents, and the officials from whom the Committee has heard 
testimony, are in substantial agreement about what President Nixon 
authorized on September 15, namely CIA involvement in promoting a 
military coup d'etat in Chile. There is not,~however, agreement 
about what was communicated between the CIA and the White House--
' and hence what was authorized by the latter--in the week between 
October 15 and the death of General Schneider, October 22. This 
matter will be discussed in Part V of thii report on the Schneider 
killing. 
-
mi?: r_;-
,........ 
