13-00000 
SECRET 
time he '.s trying to. 路send them to jail. "He's your 
路boss" I would say to Goldfarb, "he wasn't my boss, I 
can't figure him out any better than you can." Now I'm 
told by Chuck Briggs that .in the pile of paper that 
he's looking at now - as a result of the AARB nonsense 
- they have found two memorandums from the Church 
Committee - the Schwieker subcommittee of the Church 
Committee. I had forgotten that I had testified before 
the Schwieker Subcommittee. Chuck now tells me that 
not only did I testify - and he's looking at my 
transcript of my testimony - but he also has Charley 
Ford's testimony. Where Charley .... I don't know what 
he says - Chuck hasn't shown it to me - but he says 
"That is there, it's in great detail, it's longer than 
yours, so obviously Charley must have told the 
Schwieker committee what I'm telling you now." That he 
actually was assigned to Bobby and did what Bobby had 
asked him to do. Which is to go meet Mafia types. 
What they said, unless Charley says in his testimony -
and all this is under oath - I don't know what Charley 
said, but you guys go ahead and look at it .. I haven't 
got the clearances yet until it's declassified. Can't 
even look at my own testimony. Oddly enough, I told 
this to Chuck when he called me and gave me the date. 
I looked at my old calendars - I keep all my old 
calendars. I never had any calendar that I kept while I 
was working but ever since I left the job, over 20 
years ago, I've been keeping good records on my 
calendar. Anyway, there it is, April something, 1976. 
Written right in the little box, Schwieker 
Subcommittee. I called Chuck back and I said, "you're 
right, I did testify." People have said that, as a 
result of this, that Charley and Bobby must have been 
working on using the Mafia in some kind of 
assassination plots. Check what Charley says in his 
testimony; I don't know what 路they did. They never 
said. Charley never talked to me about that. He would 
always stick his head in before he left on another 
trip, "I'm off ~gain, Sam. Bye." The reason I know he 
went to Canada - I think it was Toronto - was because 
he came in for the first time and said, "I'm leaving 
the country." I said "Where the Hell are you going?" 
He says "Canada." Charley was a damn fine officer, and 
I'm awfully sorry he died so early. 
In terms of talking about assassination platting, it 
gets kind of hairy after a while. It's hard to know 
when to stop, and you don't even know when you start 
something. I remember under Des; when Des came in on 
that Monday morning for example, on this crazy business 
of the sea shallots had been all over 
everywhere .... Again it was a Monday morning and he had 
just come in from driving his VW with his foot路 through 
18 
SECRET 
