- 59 -
V. THE DISPOSAL OF AGENCY PROPRIETARIES 
a) An Overview 
The Agency has emphasized the degree to which the extensive 
proprietary system it has maintained in the past has been disposed 
of in recent years. Indeed, according to the current Chief of the 
Cover and Commercial Staff, at least in so far as large proprietaries 
are concernedt "because of multitudinous reasons they will be viewed 
as the solution of last resort."* Size was a problem and made it 
"inevitable that cover would not last." Moreover. there simply is 
not a need, according to the Agency, for the kind of capabilities 
supplied by an Air America either now or in the foreseeable future. 
In this regard, the Agency has indicated that no "real proprietariesn 
are in planning because there are no such operational requirements 
before the Cover and Commercial Staff (hereafter "CCS"). But the 
Committee has learned from its study that the Agency retains the 
* As William E. Nelson, Deputy Director of Operations, noted recently 
to the Rockefeller Commission: 
I think by and large that the day of the big proprietary 
is over. We have attempted over the past few years to 
try to squeeze down on those kinds of proprietaries and 
I think we have really gone now to a fairly small number, 
and a fairly tightly controlled group of proprietaries 
who are doing legitimate operational jobs, particularly 
in the media field. 
Our experience with proprietaries in the past has been 
if left by themselves. they tend to absorb larger and 
larger amounts of government money and are not particu­
larly for a business. They a-re not very viable in the 
business sense and quickly become suspect as not having 
any commercial validity. And we have, I think in the 
past ten years, we have in this past ten years gotten 
rid of an enormous number of proprietaries in this field. 
I don't foresee us getting in the immediate future into 
any expansion of that proprietary record. I think we 
are about right in tenns of where we are now. 
NW .50955 Docid: 3242:J.532 Page 63 
