ijemorandum to Mr. w.c. Sullivan 
RE: JEANNETTE RANKIN BRIGADE 
This petition was read to the demonstrators 
assemb~d at Union Square by Swedish film actress, Viveca 
Lindfors. 
Following the assembly at Union Square, the marchers 
were bussed to the Shoreham Hotel where they convened a 
congress of American women from approximately 2:30 p.m.-to 
5:40 p.m. 1.-, 
During this time, speeches were made by Vivian 
Hallinan, who has been described by her son, Ter~ence 
Hallinan, as being willing to join the Communist- Party if her 
husband would join. Hallinan described the Brigade's goal as 
"world without war" and "life with dignity and opportunities 
to develop our maximum capacity." 
Mrso Martin Luther King, Jro, stated that women must 
use all of their power to stop the war in Vietnam. She 
described present challenges as "militarism, racialism and 
wantonism. 
Jeannette Rankin welcomed the participants and stated 
women must see that the military system is destroyedo She 
recommended that women everywhere become candidates for political 
officeso Mrs. Dagmar Wilson, Chairman of the Women Strike for 
Peace, a national pacifist group, spoke concerning United States 
policy in Vietnam. She stressed the need for education in order 
to change·United States policy and stated that their demonstra­
tion was the beginning of a revolution. 
While this assembly was taking place a small group 
calling themselves Radical Womens Group met in a room across the 
hallo This group was very disorganized and was held without 
apparent objective. • 
Sympathy demonstration were held in Miami, Florida; 
Boston, Massachusetts; Seattle, Washington; St. Louis, Missouri; 
Portland, Oregon; Atlanta, Georgia; San Francisco and Los Angeles, 
California. In San Francisco the Brigade's contingent 
presented a petition to the Mayor who agreed to transmit it to 
Washington. In Los Angeles, the contizg:int attempted to speak 
before the City Council, but their request was denied. 
- 2 -
1 
NW 38321 Dodd:32989544 Page 322 
