13-00000 
PAGE 12 
20/20 CABC>, August 27, 1993 
table with some of its key henchman, and discussed killing President Kenn~dy. 
They did hate him. They might have even had a conspiracy afoot. There is no tie 
between Lee Harvey Oswald and organi~ed crime. There1 s not opportunity for him 
to have been their assassin. In essence, he beat the Mafia to Kennedy. 
SHERR: How about, as in the Oliver Stone movie, JFK, the military industrial 
compl~x? 
Kr. POSNER: The movie; JFK, served what I call the k.itchen sink. If you can1 t 
just have one of them, let's have everybody in the plot, because they all have 
some reason to knock off Kennedy. 
JIM GARRISON: We have the mystery of the assassination of the President solved, 
and there is no question about it. 
SHERR: What about the Garrison investigation? 
Kr. POSNER: He had great delusions on the assassination. I think it's a 
disgrace. It was a travesty of justice, a miscarriage of justice. Garrison knew 
it. I discovered files of his investigation - documents, affidavits, memos from 
his investigators - which showed the extent of this scam that was pulled on the 
American public. Here was a man who knew better. I think his behavior actually 
crossed the line to being criminal. 
SHERR: Is there any evidence- do you believe at all that Lee Harvey Oswald was 
working on behalf of the CIA to kill the President? 
Kr. POSNER: No.· I don't believe the CIA had any connection, not only to kill the 
President, but they had no connection to Oswald at all. Arid the reason that I 
can say that so confidently to you is actually an unusual source. It's the KGB 
files. The KGB files, which had surveillance on Oswald for day in and day out 
for nearly two years in Russia, came to the conclusion that he was not a sleeper 
agent, that he had no American intelligence contact. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl So if Oswald wasn't working for the CIA, how about the KGB? 
After all, he spoke Russian, defected to the Soviet Union in 1959, married, a 
Russian, and lived in Hinsk for two years. 
'Kr. POSNER: A popular early theory, popular that we now see in the documents 
just released this past week in Washington. The KGB was high on the CIA's 
possible list of targets.- The KGB did not want Oswald from day one. They 
reali~ed Oswald had problems, psychological problems. 
URI NOSENKO, Former KGB Agent: Csp?l I do not think that Oswald will be trusted 
by any intelligence. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl Uri Nosenko is someone who might know. Before defecting to 
the United States in 1963; Nosenko was Oswald's KGB handler, and· had access to 
his file. He insists Oswald never worked for the KGB. Still concerned about his 
own safety, Nosenko asked 20/20 not to show his face. 
Kr. NOSENKO: Lee Harvey Oswald was mentally unstable. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl But unlike Posner, Nosenk.o says he doesn't believe Oswald 
could have shot the President for a very simple reason. 
ervices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
