• Memorandum to Mr. Adams • Re: Senate Select Committee 
Inspector Hotis asked whether the on-going interviews 
would be delayed pending resolution of the differences concerning 
procedures. Schwarz replied that the interviews will proceed due to 
time factors. I then requested Schwarz to expedite his discussion 
with the members of the Committee, to state their proposals in writing 
in order that we could review them in specific detail, and to let me 
know as socmas their proposal as approved by the Committee was available 
for discussion. He agreed to do so and said that probably this could 
be accomplished by Thursday, May 8, 1975. 
OPINION 
It was my impression in dealing with Schwarz that he is making 
an honest effort to conduct the Committee inquiry reasonably and that he 
is concerned about the public acceptance of the Con;imittee's final product. 
His concerns about the integrity of the investigation are similar to those 
thatEwould express about an FBI investigation. His insistence that 
interviews of individuals concerning possible misconduct be done alone 
with the witness appear to me to be reasonable to insure the integrity 
of their investigation. The compromise we discussed (they would identify 
the witnesses to us prior to interview and tell us the proposed subject 
matter of the interview and allow us to consult with the witness prior to 
interview) seems to be a practical solution to our mutual problem. This 
solution is not as acceptable to CIA due to their greater need for 
protection of their covert operations, sources and methods. The Committee 
bas available to it the subpoena power, the authority to conduct public 
hearings, and a good deal of support by public opinion. Therefl1lt'e, I 
conclude that the Committee is likely to discover the full details of 
events concerning which they inquire whether theFBI cooperates or 
appears to be reluctant. As to those areas of legitimate concern'because 
of their sensitivity in terms of productiQ11of ·informants or sources and 
methods of gathering national security intelligence, the Bureau can 
properly expect an opportunity to provide protection for the information. 
If the procedures suggested above are operated in good faith 
on both sides, the Bureau would be given notice as to the subject matter 
to be discussed prior to the interview and research could disclose the 
areas of sensitivity and ;,appropriate action taken to caution the witness 
against disclosure of such information. 
- 3 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38296 Docld:32989532 Page 90 
