( 
': 
{ 
[ (4) 
( 
( 
SECTION 87. SECURITY IHVES:J.'J,...\.'.rIOHS . \ 87D 
II. 
·III. 
IV. 
locate sub.icci;:; a.re not to .:::urim.ittc(l. The Bµreau 
will cio:::ely follo~: investi *1ti ve_ action to locate 
missing security index subjects. 
If you receive indications that the subject went to 
tiexico or Canada, request the Burep.u to alert other 
appropriate Government agencies to thiR po:::sibility 
and to determine ~ny available verifyint information 
t·brou1,h liaj son channelr.. 
If the subject is reported to have gone to any otbcc 
foreign country, the Wa.shington J!'ieJ.d Office should he 
requested to check the -r.ecor<ls of the P:i.n:::port Office 
of the State Department for verification. 
When all logical leads have been exhauRtud in the case 
of a missing important functionary, consideration should 
be given to circularizing all field offices with the • 
subject's photoirapr. and background information for the 
purpose of alerting the entire field to ~he identity 
of the :::ubj ect, Bureau. 2.utho:r-i ty mu:::t be obto.i ned be­
fore circularization is made. In seeking Bureau author­
ity, advise the Bureau as to the position held by the ·• 
subject and what efforts have alre::>.dy been made to locate 
him. 
If this procedure is to be effective, its application 
must necessarily be restrictive in the number of ·subjects 
to which it is applied. Therefore, requests to circularize 
must be made only after every possible lead has been 
exhausted and then only in the cases of the most impor-
tant missing functionaries. . 
Individuals traveling abroad (Also consiae·r sec_tion(105G,) 
yol ume IV, of this ma nu.al. ) 
When information is received indicating that 
a subject of a current or past security investigation, 
a past member of a basic revolutionary organization, 
a member since July, 1950, of an organization designated 
pursuant to Executive Order 104~0, . 
a member since July, 1950, of an organization declared 
subversive by the House Committee on Un-American 
Activities or other legislative committees, or 
·a member since July, 1950, of an organization described 
by reliable informants or sources as being dominat?d o~ . _... 
controlled by on.e of the basic revo-lutionary orga:nizatio.ns 
intends to ·!;ravel a broad or has already departed_ thi.s count:c.y 
for foreign travel, take the following action: 
(a) Immediately adYise the Bureau·in form suitable for dissemi­
nation, setting for·bh complete available details concerning 
the foreign travel, including places and dates of departure 
and intended return, destination and itinerary, purpose of 
trip, the exact name under which the passport wa~ issued, 
the number of the passport, and the office issuing the pass­
port, if known.- However, do -not delay advising the Bureau 
of the actual or intended trivel while developing the ab6ve 
information as time.is of the essence in this matter. • 
(b) Set out a lead for the Washington Field Office for a check 
:of .the records of the Passport Office, Department of State; 
however, do not limit efforts to develop above information 
to·a check of s~ch records. ·-
. 33 
10-13-61 
