[ 
[ 
. [ 
[ 
107C-D SECTION 107 .• ECURITY INFORM.4.:NTS AND CONFIDE.·A·L SOURCES. 
D. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
Inou.iries of discreet nature concerning i:ridi vidual' s pe·rsona.l history 
(date and place of birth, etc.),. patriotism, health, reliability, 
stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past employments,. 
and business connections. Investigation must definitely establish that 
individual can be used without danger of future embarrassme_nt due 
to instability or unreliability. Securing background infor~ation from 
individual is not sufficient; his background must be established by 
investigation, including discreet inquiries am~ng persons person~lly 
acquainted with him. 
Check of local credit and arrest records. Submit FD-165 to Identifica­
tion Division to obtain any record he may have and to place stop 
against fingerprints if on file. 
Review armed services record if applicable. 
Check draft status· or status in armed forces reserve. 
Check domestic status and, if any marital difficulties, obtain details. 
Persons being considered for use in espionage and foreign nationality 
cases may present special problems which limit scope of investigat·ion;. 
{See instructions re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, 
volume IV, of this manual.) However, where practical, cover ·above items. 
Leads must be handled by auxiliary offices within 30 days. Inve·stigation 
must be completed prior to any request to guide, direct, or designate in­
dividua,l as potential security informant. 
APPROVAL, INDOCTRINATION, AND DEVELOPMENT OF POTENTIAL INFORMANTS 
1. When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same 
mm1erical sequence set out in subsection C, and request authority ·l;o des.­
ignate individual as Bureau-approved potential security informant and to 
proceed with developmen·t;. [Submit by secure tele·t;ype (usually NitelL 
Be brief and concise.] Do not submit on UACB basis. Include physical 
description. 
a. If the individual is a student, include separate paragraph clearly 
setting forth the number of[extremist]and/or security informants, 
the number of potential (extremist ]and/ or potential security in­
formants, and the number of panel sources currently being operated.at 
the particular coJ lege or university to which the request perta_ins. 
2 . .After designation as Bureau-approved potential security informant, fol­
lowing matters should be made clear to him: 
a. His assistance is strictly voluntary and he is to understand there is 
no coercion or intimidation involved. 
b. He is not and cannot consider himself employee or "under~over .Agent" 
of FBI. Seriousness of violating impersonation statutes must be 
impressed upon him. • 
c. His cooperat,ion must be strictly confidential at a;l.1 times and if 
he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so 
ad-rise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informan·t; 
that his relationship must remain on confidential basis and if·he 
-violates confidence he will be of no value and by so doing Bureau's 
investigative activity may be jeopardized. If he has special 
problem which would require revealing his assistance to his wife or 
other pertinent individual, this should be a·scertained and appropriate 
recom.~endation made to Bureau. 
a. If potential informant is connected in any manner with labor union, 
inform him that Bureau is not interested in employer-employee :rela·tion­
ships as such and is only concerned with obtaining information on 
inf':i.l tration of unions by subversive elements. 
e. If potential informant is student, teacher, or has any similar 
relations with school, college, or university, in initial interview 
and subsequent handling, follow current ins·t;ructions concernin.g in­
vestigations on campuses. 
3. Do not interview female potential informants in their homes or apartments 
unless necessary and any such interviews should be conducted by two 
.Agents after specific approval of superior in field office responsible 
for development of informants. This instruction is not applicable where 
active inYestiga.tion has established that potential informant is of good 
charac·ter, there is no indication of affiliation with subversive groups 
and there will be no embarrassment to Bureau. • • 
4 
9-13-71 
W 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1165 
C 
( 
