13-00000 
SECRET 
it. And I told them what I was doing. I told them I wasn't going to reply to 
the thing, I didn't need to as far as I was concerned, but I left it up to 
each individual that talked to me to make it up in his own mind. I don't know 
how many did or didn't, but I think it was in terms of a CYA thing, in terms 
of: here's a new man on the block, Schlesinger, and he wants to know what 
happened since Genesis. You know, doesn't he have anything else to do? He's 
got a whole Agency and a whole new world to conquer. What the hell is worried 
about all that stuff for? So, I think it was basically in terms of, at least 
the guys I talked to or talked to me, it was a CYA activity on the part of 
Schlesinger who didn't want to get blind sided by something that might have 
happened that CIA would, be accused of. But the attitude was, what the hell is 
he worried about, it is not on his watch. If there is something is wrong, and 
even if CIA is accused of it, it's not on his watch. Nobody can hold him 
responsible for it. If it happened, even two years ago, what the hell. I 
mean, so. It might have happened under somebody elses aegis, and CIA takes 
the heat, but he could say, you know, it wasn't me. I wasn't around. So that 
was the general attitude. And as I say, a lot of people responded .11ke good 
soldiers and wrote all kinds of tomes about things they thou9ht were wrong, 
and not all of them were accepted. I mean that 690 whatever thing ... 
INTERVIEWER: Yes, it's a list which is simply the number of pages that. 
MR. HALPERN: Yes, and these things were each on a page if I remember 
correctly. And these were the ones that Bill Colby finally accepted as going 
quote beyond the pale unquote. But even then when Biil issued. his kind of 
after action directives, there were a whole bunch of stuff. He said, you 
know, these don't count. Even though I've got them, these don't count because 
they are not beyond anything they are perfectly legal and all that k1nd of 
stuff and perfectly proper. In some of these he said, we are going to stop 
54 
