... _ I 
U. s. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE 
'TO STUDY GOVEron.mNTAL OPEM 'l'IONS 
'WITH F..ESPECT TO Ufl'ELLIGE!Wls ACTIVITIES {SSC) 
RE: INTERVIEW OF FBI SPECIAL AGENT (SA) 
FRED J. CASSIDY BY SSC STAFF ?ilE?iBEll 
Mr. Johnson .asked if I had mot Tor.i Charles Huston 
prior to the initia1 meeting of the Huston Plan working group. 
l advised him that l had never heard of Huston prior to the 
mentioning of his name by w. c. Su1livan at the initial meot~ng 
of FBI personnel involved in the Huston Plan, which meeting 
occtwred early in June, 1970, and had never seen him~mt11 the 
:first meeting of the working gx-oup hel.d at CIA Iiea.dqua1"ters, 
Langloy, Virginia, shortly thereafter. 
tfr. Johnson asked about the initial mecrting of FBI 
personnel concerning the Iiuston Plan. I told him i.t was held 
in Mr. Sullivants conference ~-0om in the Federal Triangle 
Building and that as best as I could recall it was attended by 
?rtr. Sullivan and the branch Inspectors o:f the Intelligence 
Diviston as well as the Secti-on Chiefs. Sullivan told us of 
• the plan and as I recall indicated this was a golden opportunity 
to regain the coverage afforded by techniques, which had been 
denied us for the most part, since 1967. I told him that in my 
view Sullivan 't"laS going to make th$s ono last e£:fort to regain 
the coverage and if this effort failed was prepared to retiro. 
?11r. Johnson asked if :fo:tmel" Inspector T. J. Smith was 
at th~s meeting. I told him I eould not recall. 
The initial meeting o:f the Ad Hoc group at CIA was 
discussed and I advised hin that, as I recalled, at. that meeting it was decided that each participating agency would submit a 
paper listing the restraints on t11eir partt~ular agency which 
were hampering them in doing their job. t pointed out that the 
FBI subrti.tted an :extensive list of re:.;traints and that this paper 
was circulated to the other participating ~gencies without being 
cleared through ft~. Hoover. 
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989£53 Page 55 
