13-00000 
p 12 
which now 1• in its Fifth Edition and its thirty-sixth year of 
publication), I have a keen ■ense ot the •athoda and need• ot 
researchers. 
2. What do you considar to be· your primary reaponaibili ties and ~­
priorities as an ARRB aember? 
Ky first responsibility is to help establish the determina­
tion of the Board to fulfill the purpo•• of th• legislation.·· 
creating it. . 
!'he second.is to help oversee th• orderly and complete 
gathering of the documents from the respective agencies holding 
them. , 
'l'he first priority is to help structure the Board so that 
the work can proceed expeditiously and efficiently. . ~- ,, 
'l'he second priority is to obtain the services ot a know-?"":; 1 
ledgeable and energetic Executive Director as soon as·possible. 
J. How do you envision your relationship and responsibilities--
as an ARRB member-- to (a) the President, (b) the congress, and 
(c) other executive branch agencies? • 
(a) to the President: I will aim to the best of my ability 
to •eet the high expectations that President Bush enunciated upon 
• signing the Act creating the Board: to help burnish the reputa­
tion of the United States Government for trustworthiness .. I will 
be responsive to inquiries and suggestions that may emanate from 
the White House, while keeping in mind that the Board's own 
integrity is the highest desideratum. 
QCO" -.,,. 
(b) to the Congress: I will aim to fulfill the purpose of 
the legislation creating the Board. I will always l>tfacijtely 
aware of the keen interest and concern that the Congress has 
expressed from the beginning in the assassination itself and in 
the attendant issues that understanding it has generated both on 
capitol Hill and in the .country at large. I will be responsive 
to inquiries and suggestions that may emanate from the Congress, 
while keeping in mind that the Board's own integrity is the 
highest desideratum. 
(c) to other executive brf.lncb agencitts: .J_w~~l. ~e r~spon~ 
sive to the special concerns that assembling th.e i,ertiiient • 
documents may create. Still, I feel obliged to keep firmly in 
mind that the Board's mission is the highest desideratum. 
4. Bow do you view the job of ARRB Executive Director? What role 
do you anticipate playing in the selection of ARRB Executive 
Director and staff? • 
The Executive Director is central to the success of the 
Board's mission. He or she must be a person of judgment, 
2 
( 
I. 
r. 
~ 
h 
[ 
I I 
!· 
j.: 
! 
