( 
107T-U 
4. 
5. 
SECTIOIJ 107 •• CURITY I~FORM.1UTTS AlID CONFIDl..AL SOURCES. 
b. Pamphlets, brochures, etc., pre pared by private co,npany for distri bu­
tion or sale to public. (This does not include highly technical 
pamphlets, even if unclassified, which are prepared for limited use (_ 
·and not intended for release to public.) -
Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be retained by office of origin of ·any documents or 
material related to national defense which is passed. 
b. Such material should be apuropriately identified by double agent. 
Bureau Agents should not place identifying data on such material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in connection with its passage. 
c. Similar action should be taken regarding material which is passed which 
_ is considered evidentiary although not clearly related to national defense. 
d. It is not necessary to retain copies of buildup material obviously not 
evidentiary in nature where copies can be obtained at later date from 
Government agency or private concern having custody. 
Handling money and property received by double agents 
a. Douole agents must turn over to Bureau any money or property r_e·ceived 
from their principals in connection with double agent intelligence 
operation. This should be made clear to double agent at inception 
of operation (consider obtaining signed statement to this effect). 
Exceptions must be specifically approved by Bureau. Entirely separate. 
arrangements must be made for payments to double agents for services 
rendered to Bureau. 
b. Any money or property received by double agent from his principal 
represents possible evidence and double agent should execute state­
ment describing money received by type Df currency, denomination, 
series of issue, and serial number and .appropriately describing any 
other property received. Statement should be signed by double agent's 
code name. ~ 
c. Money or property received from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Y.i.a.nual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
d. Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from double agents 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refreshing (\✓. 
recollection in event testimony is later necessary. 
U. UTILIZATION OF INFORI-'.i.ANTS AND SOURCES AT IliSTITUTIONS OF LEARNING 
1. Use of students 
a. Students under age of 18 years are not to be developed as security 
informants, potential security informants, or other types of security 
sources in other than highly unusual circumstances. Under such 
circumstances, furnish complete justification to Bureau.· 
b. Upon initial contact with prospective student informant or source, 
·individual should be tactfully requested to execute a brief signea writ­
ten stateme~t for field file setting forth that this individual has 
voluntarily come forward to furnish information to FBI because of 
his concern over individuals or groups that may be inimical tq 
interests of U. s. Government and that he understands FBI has no 
interest in legitimate institution or campus activities. 
2. Quarterly letters 
a. On January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1, submit quarterly 
letters on each student and teacher authorized by Bureau for contact 
as security informant, potential security informant, or other 
sources (including panel sources). Include following: 
(1) Specific productivity 
{2) Specific information furnished not otherwise available from 
public source material 01: other office s·ources off campus 
{3) Frequency of contact . 
b. Quarterly letters on all[ extremist]and security informants or source·s 
should be jointly transmitted to Bureau by cover letter captioned_ 
"Utilization of Informants and Sources at Institutions of Learnillg. 11 
Include following in cover letter: 
(1) Number of informants, potential informants, and other sources 
active and under development at each educational institution 
a,ffe cted (,. 
(2) An overall analysis of coverage afforded by campus informants 
and sources 
24 
9-13-71 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1235 
i 
I I . I 
