( 
.( 
( 
[ 
[ 
NW 88321 
a. 
SECTION 87. SECURITY I 
-, ' . -, 
vrith any additi<.,e information contai~ed in th·~•eau' s files •. 
The names of subscribers to Communist Party nominating petitions 
and the names appearing on subscription lists of(the Communist Party, 
USA,publications]and publications -and organs of the organizations 
set forth in 1 a, b, c,· and d must be indexed in the field of'fice 
covering the address shown for the subscriber and should not be forwarded 
to the Bure au for indexing.. l1a.iling .lists as such which cannot be 
identified as membership lists of subversive organizations also should 
be indexed in the field and not forwarded to the Bureau. Field offices 
- obtaining such lists must promptly furnish them to the office covering 
the address shown for the subscriber. 
Important subversive derogatory 1nformation concerning any individual 
and any new subversive derogatory information concerning any individual 
of importance must be brought to the attention of the Bureau by expe-
ditious means. • 
Subversive and nonsubversive derogatory inf-ormation coming to the attention 
of the field office through a name check or otherwise on an employee 
of the executive branch of tho Government, which information is within 
the purview of Executive Order 10450, should be forwarded promptly to 
the Bureau for dissemination to the Civil Service Co'mmission. In 
addition, subversive derogatory and other information relating to other 
employees of the-Government and to employees of the United Nations ana 
of other public international organizations received by the field office· 
·should be brought immediately to the attention of the Bureau. 
These instructions do .not affect and are in addition to existing 
• instructions for the submission of information in report form._ 
C. INVESTIGATION .OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY, AND OTHER 
MA.RXIST REVOLUTIONARY-TYPE ORGANIZATIONS 
l. Policy 
a. Communist Party, USA 
By Presidential directive on 9-!5""39, and subsequent restat.ements 
{see section 102, volume IV, of this ·-manual), this Bureau is charged 
with the responsibility of coordinating all information with regard 
to the internal security of the U. S. Since 1939, a large portion 
of the Bureau's security investigations, has been directed toward 
a coverage of the activities of communists ~nd other groups who~e 
aims seek the overthrow of the U. s. Government. The Communist 
Party, USA, is the best organized and .most dangerous from a security 
standpoint. The party is not an isolated or purely domestic organ­
ization but is part of an international communist movement led and 
dominated by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, the ultimate 
aim of which is to establish a world-wide communist state. The 
Communist Party, USA, bases its theory on the principles of Marxism­
Leninism. (Considerable evidence shows that these principles look 
toward the violent overthrow of the U.S. Government or its downfall 
in the event of a war with the Soviet Union.) It would be a grave 
error to suppose that, because the party is actually and potentially 
small, it is not dangerous. The contemplated role of the party is 
such that it can be played best by an organization which is· cohesive, 
easily mobilized, highly maneuverable, fanatically zealous, well 
disciplined, and immediately responsive in an emergency to the demands 
of its leaders. The highest authority in the Communist Party, USA, 
is the national convention which meets approximately once every two 
years. Between these conventions, the national committee .is the" 
highe.st authority of the party o 
2009 
3 
8--5-68 
0 
