• Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan 
Re: TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE COVERAGE 
DIPLOMATIC ESTABLISHMENTS-
65-63113 
. - ~ . ' 
• 
OF 
: 
. (. 
• i: ~ I 
Of the above-listed_estiblishments, we still have as of this 
date current coverage on: 
Embassy of· Argentina·_·_· 
Emba~sy of Brazil • 
Brazilian Delegation to UN 
Embassy of Japan 
Embassy of !vl"exico 
-, Coverage on other establishments on which we have had 
installations has been discontinued because of unproductivity. With 
respect to current coverage, the Brazilian and Argentinean establishment: 
during the Cuban crisis and subsequent thereto have produced valuable 
data which has been furnished to Attorney General as well as to c 
interested ageilc-ies. This intelligence information for the most part 
during the Cuban crj_sis pertained to reactions and actions ·of those 
Latin-American countries in connection with the Cuban situation. 
Coverage on the Embassy of Japan has not produced information of any 
significance to date. This particular surveillance on the Embassy_of 
.I. Japan is being analyzed separat·ely within two weeks and determination 
will be made at that time as to whether it should be continued. 
Although information on above Mexicari establishment has not produced 
much worthwhile data to date, Mexi"co's position in Latin-American 
affairs is such as to warrant our.continuance of this coverage for the 
time being. In this regard, Washington Field Office within past week 
has been able to monitor additional lines at the Mexican Chancery which 
were not prev-iously monitored because of other commitments. It is felt 
this additionaf coverage will be producti~e. . · 
In addition to the above existing coverage, we are in the 
process of making a survey as to feasibility·of placing coverage on the 
Venezuelan Embassy .. - It is noted that President Betancourt of Venezuela 
is making a visit to this country on 2/18/63 and technical coverage on 
the Venezuelan establishment may be able to provide pertinent data 
during this visit. • 
- ACTION: 
This program will·be followed closely and will be 
.reanalyzed in 90 days. 
-J,~-
·1111. 
- 2 .-
