13-00000 
. APR 04 '97 10: 13AM 
56 Md. L. Rev. 1, *36 
.. '¥, t, 
PAGE 41 
(f) Any other record that does not fall within the scope of assassination 
record ae described in 1400.1, but which has the potential to enhance, enrich, 
and broaden the historical record of che assassinat.ion. 
1400.3 Sources of assassination records and additional records and 
information. 
Assassination records and additional records and information may be located 
at, or under the control of, wichout limitation: 
(a) Agencies, offices, and entities of the executing, legislative, and 
judicial branches of the Federal Government; 
(b) Agencies, offices, and entities of the executive, legislative, and 
judicial branches o£ state and local governments, 
(c) Record reposicories and archives of. Federal, state, and local '.°.•-::... .. ···.-· 
governments, including presidential librari~s; , · 
., 
(d) Record repositories and archives of universities, libraries, historical 
societies, and other similar organizations: 
(e) Individuals who possess such records by virtue of service with a 
government agency, office, or entity; 
(f) Persons, including individuals and corporations. who.have obtained such 
records from sources identified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section; 
(g)· Persons, including individuals and corporations, who have themselves 
created or have obtained such records from sources other than-those-identif.ied-­
in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section; 
Ch) Federal, state, and local courts where such records are being held under 
seal; or 
(i) Foreign governments. 
1400.4 Types of materials included in scope of assassination record and 
additional records and.information. 
The term record in assassination rece>rd and additional records and 
information includes, for purposes of interpreting and implementing the JPJC Act, 
(a) papers, maps, and other documentary material; 
(b) photographs; 
(c) mot.ion pictures, 
(d) sound and video record~ngs; 
(e) machine readable information in any form; and 
(f) artifacts. 
P.41/44 
