ROSSELLI CJ-IRONOLOGY OF EVENTS 
1955 Meets Maheu at insurance friend's home. 
1960 Late July/early August. Maheu calls. Working for government. Recruit 
Rosselli only. Meet Brown Derby, L.A., for ltmch. Long talk about 
project in Cuba. Rosselli wants verification. 
2nd meeting, L.A., discuss further details, no discussion of specific 
techniques. Plan to meet in N.Y. for verification. 
Sept. 14, 1960. First meeting in N.Y. at old Plaza Hotel. Rosselli 
introduced by Maheu to O'Connell. Rosselli ''knew" O'Connell worked 
for the CIA. Rosselli agrees to work on Cuban project. 
Sept. 25, 1960. Maheu and Rosselli travel to 'Miami to begin making 
contact with Cubans to be recruited for mission. 
(Between Sept. 25 and the Bay of Pigs, a series of recruitments, meetings, 
and arrangements were made. The following is an outline of events that 
is not necessarily in chronological order.) 
' Meeting where Maheu is introduced to Traf ficantt. Meeting 
where Maheu is introduced to Giancana. Giancana was, according 
to Rosselli; to only be a "back up man." Rosselli states • 
Giancana had nothing to do with the actual operation. Trafficantf 
was used, according to Rosselli, as a translator. 
Meeting with O'Connell, Maheu, Rosselli, 
discuss the Cuban project. 
Rosselli, in his contact with the Cubans, "invents" the cover 
story that he represents some Wall Street business interests who 
want to see Castro eliminated. Rosselli trusts Cubans he has 
recruited because they are part of the Bay of Pigs operation. 
1st attempt at assassination involved the use of pills. ~1aheu 
and Rosselli met with Cuban #1 and #2 (?). Maheu opened up his 
briefcase and gave the pills with instructions for their use to 
Cuban #1. Maheu also had $10,000 he gave the Cubans for doing 
the project. Rosselli did not know of the money. Rosselli states 
he received no remuneration for his work on the project, in fact, 
he paid out $800 for gas for a speed boat to deliver two or three 
man parties for guerrilla raids into Cuba. 
Prior to Bay of Pigs there was no discussion of using guns to 
assassinate Castro. 
Rosselli's cover name was "John Ralston." 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 119 
