- 2 -
With respect to assassination, 
just thin~ it is wrong. And I 
very clear to my subordinates. 
my position is clear. I 
have said so and made it 
(5/21/75, p. 89) 
Colby's predecessor, Helms, although himself involved in an earlier plot, 
sai~ he had concluded assassination should be ruled out for both moral and 
practical reasons: 
As a result of my experiences through the years, when I be­
came Director I had made up my mind that this option ... of 
killing foreign leaders, ~as somethirtg that I did not want 
to happen.on my watch. Hy reasons for this were these: 
There are not only mciral reas~ns but there are also 
some other rather practical reasons. 
It is almost impo~Sibl~ in a democracy to keep any­
thing like that secret .... Somebody would go to a Con­
gressman, his Senator, he might go to a newspaper man, what­
.ever the case may be, but it j~st is not a ~ractical alterna-
tive, it .seems to me, i~ our society. 
Then there is another consideration .•. if you are going 
to try by this kind of 111eans to remove a foreign leader, 
thenwho is going to take.his place running that country, 
. and are you essentially'better off as a matter of practice 
when it is over than you were before? And I can give you I 
think a very solid example of this which happened in Vietnam 
when President Diem was eliminated from the scene. He then 
had a revolving door of· prime ministers. after that for· quite 
some period of tiem, during which the Vietnamese Government 
at a· time in its history when it should have been strong was 
nothing but a caretaker. government .... In other 
words, that whole exercise turned out to the disadvantage of 
. the United States . 
... there is no sense in my sitting here with all the ex­
perience I have had and not sharing with the Committee my 
feelings this day. It isn't because I have lost my cool, 
or because I have lost my.guts, it simply is because I don't 
think it is a viable op'tion in the United States of America these 
days. 
Chairman Church. Doesn't it also follow, Mr. llelms -·- 1, 
agree ·with what you have said fully -- but doesn't it 
also follow on the practical side, apart from the moral side, 
that since these secrets are bound to come out, when they do, 
they do very grave political damage to the United States in 
the world at large? I don't know to what extent the Russians 
NW 50955 Docld: 32423539 Page .563 
