14-00000 
other indexing tools which provide much more expedited and 
efficient searches. Because the most significant portion of 
JFK assassination-related material was generated prior to 
this conversion to electronic databases, searches of the 
sequestered collection or other contemporaneous CIA records 
have had to rely primarily upon labor intensive hand -
searches. 
Since 1992 and the passage of the JFK Act, CIA has, in 
responding to the requests of the Board, had to devise 
search methodologies and techniques _to address both the hard 
copy and electronic versions of our databases. With respect 
to the hard copy material, Agency efforts have concentrated 
on those component records most likely to yield 
assassination-r_elated documents. Short of a complete manual 
review of all documents in the Agency, the techniques used 
for searching hard copy materials include expert reviews of 
file series and folder names, including associations with 
known related topics, retrieving boxes of files from the 
Agency's Archives and Records Center, and manually reviewing 
those files identified as likely to contain the sought after 
materials. 
Electronic files searches can actually be more complex 
thah manual searches, in major part because of the nwnber of 
different electronic systems in use. The Directorate of 
Operations' electronic databases, for instance, include most 
cables since 1978 and they can be searched using single or 
multiple search terms against the full text of these cables. 
The Directorate of Intelligence's automated sys~ems include 
original source material used for analytic assessments as 
well as the products themselves and can be searched through 
a variety of electronic techniques. The DCI Area 
(considered, for this purpose a directorate) maintains the 
Executive Registry files which are not normally retrievable 
through full text search, but by index searches. The 
Directorate of Administration maintains a large and diverse 
system of databases and files on employees and contractors 
that includes data on security issues, medical records, 
training, etc. The Directorate of Science and Technology 
and its subordinate components maintain other electronic 
databases unique to individual missions. Each of these 
systems requires a unique set of access criteria and search 
commands and must be searched by information management 
experts of the respective directorates. • 
Where possible, automated systems were searched using 
key words such as JFK, Kennedy, assassination, executive 
action, Oswald, place names, and a large number of names, 
crypts, or pseudonyms identifying individuals known to have 
2 
