., ,,. -Jd-
·'"' • ~ I I 
That same day, General Valenzuela infonned(Colonel Wimer0 that he, .. 
; ;i 
·,· , 
(General Huerta, Admiral Tirado and 
I 
an Air Force " General\ were 
,/ 
prepared 
\ 
·to sponsor a coup. (CIA Report on Chilean Task Force Activities, 18 
November 1970) Their plan was to begin with the kidnapping of General 
Schneider on the following evening, October 19, at a military 
dinner being given for Schneider,*after which Schneider would be flown 
to Argentina, Frei would resign and leave Chile, .AdmiralEirad;:lwould 
head the military junta, and dissolve Congress. With respect to the 
kidnapping of Schneider, the cable reports: 
General Viaux knowledgeable of above operation 
but not directly involved. He has been sent to 
Vina to stay with prominent physt'tian. Will be 
seen in public places during 19 and 20 October 
to demonstrate fact that above operation not his 
doing, Will be allowed to return to Santiago at 
end of week. Military will not admit involve­
ment in Schneider's abduction which is to be ~ 
blamed on leftists. (Santiago 566, 19 October) 
The kidnapping of the evening of October 19 failed because General Schneider 
left in a private vehicle, rather than in h.is o,fficial car, and his police guard 
failed to be withdrawn, but the Army t.~:o:Uone:L,~ssuredelonel WimerIJthat an­
other attempt would be made on October 20, (Santiago 582, 20 October) 
rcolonel Wime/~ was .authorized to pay Valenzuela $50,000 "which was the price 
~ - . 
agreed upon between the plotters and the unidentified team of abductors." 
* The(''False Flag Officer~/ who w~s in cont~ct with Viaux at the .... time 
the Valenzuela plan was given to; Colonel Wimert)apparently understood 
that Viaux was involved in the October 19 attempt. He stated: 
Q. Were you told any of the details of how 
the (Viaux) kidnapping would be carried out? 
Mr. Sarno. They indicated it was going to be 
at some sort of a banquet which the General 
(Schneider) would be attending. 
(Sarno testimony, p. 37) 
• 
-
-
