I • 
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION 
1. FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS ACT OF 1959 - FBI CANNOT 
ABSORB ANY COSTS INCIDENT· THERETO 
The provisions of this new legislation, which was enacted by the • 
86th Congress·, First Session, and approved by the President, become effective 
July 1, 1960. ·. 
Its purpose is to provide health insurance for Federal employees, . 
annuitants, and their families. Employ.ees will have the option· of selecting from 
four health plans with a wide range of benefits. The legislation provides that the 
Government will contribute 50% of the premium cost of the plan selected, subject 
to stated minimum and maximum ranges . 
. We cannot accurately estimate the cost to the FBI of these new 
benefits until the Civil Service Commission has dealt with the insur_ing groups 
to determine the cost of the plans and until the employees have selected the 
desired coverage. • Preliminary estimates, however, indicate an added cost of 
approximately $1, 000, 000 per year to the FBI as the employer's cost of these 
new benefits, based on the Bureau's experience derived from the operation of its 
present health. cover age plan. 
The appropriation request of this Bureau represents an absolute 
. minimum figure. All avenues of possible savings were thoroughly explored in 
arriving at the minimum figure requested. As a result, it will be impossible 
·• for the FBI to absorb any part of the added cost resulting from the Federal 
Employees Health Benefits Act of 1959. 
2. ADMINISTRATION'S 2% SAVINGS PROGRAM, FISCAL 'YEAR 1960 
r 
Budget Director Stans, in a letter dated September 21, 1959, to 
the Attorney General, stated the President had asked him to request the continued 
···cooperation of the-Attorney General in re~ucing civilian employment in the Govern­
·ment. The letter pointed out that during the fiscal year 1959 executive agencies '' 
~ . 
effected a 2% reduction in employment and that the President would like to effect · 
• a similar reduction in the fiscal year 1960, and requests the Attorney General to 
give personal direction to_ the program and to plan his operations so as to accomplish 
, 
j 
NW 3 
Page 1,28 
