elements. As Thomas Karamessines testified: 
... I might add here that it seemed that a good 
dozen or more, maybe 20 Chilean senior officers 
were privy to what was going on in addition to 
President Frei and they were all talking to one 
another exchanging vieWs and tiying to ·see how 
best to mount the kind of coup that they wanted 
to see take place. (Kararnessines testimony, p. 
B. Contacts Prior to October 15 
10) 
The CIA' s initial task. in Chile was to as·sess the potential within 
the Chilean military to stage a coup. It recognized quickly that anti­
Allende currents did exist in the military and the Carabineros (police), 
but were immobilized by "the tradition of m=U-itary respect for the 
Con~titution
11 
and 
11
thc ·public and private stance ·of General Schrieider, 
Comruander in Chief of the Army; who advocated strict adherence to the . . 
Constitution." (CIA Report on Chilean Task Force Activities, 18 Novem-
ber 1970, p. 17) The Agency's task, then, was to overcome "the apolitical, 
constitutional-oriented inertia of the Chilean military." (Ibid, p. 2) 
Since the very top of the Chilean military, embodied by General. 
Schneider and his second-in-command, General Prat, were hostile to the 
idea of a coup against Allende, discreet approaches were made to the 
second level of general officers. They w_~r~ to be informed that the U.S. 
* Government would support a coup both before and after it took place-
(Headquarters to Station 611, 7 October 1970) This effort began in 
earnest on October 5 when Colonel Wimert informed both an Army General 
("Station's,priority contact") an an Air Force Gen~,al of the pro-coup 
t-; ( '': .\ ( • • • 
t, t i: 
I 
*The military officers were told, for example, that should Allende be 
prevented from taking office, "The Chilean military will. not be ostra-
k~ , . 
cized, but r8ther can continue to count on us for MAP support and main­
tenance of ou<r close relationship." (Hqs, 075517, 7 October 1970) 
Hlf 5095.'i Docid:32423525 Page 10.'i 
-
-
,. 
