• lr101r G SECTION 107. sr:T: INFORMANTS[AIID CONFIDEll. ;;RCES] 
Requests of informant to help defend others] 
¾~ 
i( (12. 
G. 
[ 
1 
[ 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
a. If a securi·Gy informant is requested by the Communist Party, communists 
being prosecuted by the Government, or by other interested parties to 
assist in the preparation of the defense in su~versive-type oases or 
receives assignment where such information is readily available:, 
informant should tactfully decline such assignments. 
b. Any such request received by informant should be reported immediately 
to the contacting Agent·and made a matter pf record. 
c. If the informant cannot avoid becoming involved, he should be instructed 
not to report to the contacting Agent any information pertaining to 
defense plans or strategy. 
d. Any such incident must be reported promptly to the Bureau. 
INFORMANTSt INFORMATION 
1. General instructions(re oral and written information] 
__ ... -.?:•. Instructions regarding preparation~ submission, and handling of 
information received from informants apply not only to security· 
informants but also to potential security informants, panel sources, 
security confidential sources, and security sources of information. 
b. Specific instructio-ns and guidance must be· given to informants 
concerning preparation of statements containing their information. 
c. They should be submitted as qui-ckly as possible after a meeting 
or activity. 
d. Written statements should be submitted whenever possible, but "if such 
cannot be done information may be provided ora-lly. [In espionage and 
foreign nationality matters written sta~ements are usually necessary 
only in those instances involving possible future prosecution. (In 
the majority of cases diplomats or officials who are not subject to 
prosecution are involved.)] . 
e. Carefully scrutinize each, bearing in mind that if informant is called 
upon to testify at a later date his statements will very likely be 
introduced in court. 
f. All information furnished by informants orally or in writing mu.st be 
promptly reviewed, recorded, indexed, evaluated, channelized, and all 
nec~ssary ac·i;ion taken. Form FD-306 may be used in lieu of a chan­
nelizing memorandum if desired. If so used, prepare copies of FD-306 
as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy of the 
informant's statement being channelized. Channelization should be 
noted on original FD-306 and on all copies under "Remarks." 
g. Prior to any prosecution or administrative hearing, ·advise the trial 
attorney that informant no·G only furnished information concerning 
instant case but also provided other statements not pertinent to case 
at issue. The trial attorney ~ill thus be prepared in the event 
informan·G testifies on direct examina·i;ion or cross-examination that 
he furnisheg. information in addition J,;o his testimony. 
h. See subsection M for instructions regarding filing informant statements. 
2. Recording[written and oral information) 
a. Written 1,y informant • 
( 1) M2.y be in handwriting or hand printing of informant or typed. 
(2) Original only should be submitted and informants should never 
retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously check 
informa!lts to see that ·Ghey do not keep any notes or copies. 
(
4
3) Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identification. 
( ) Da.te when inform@.nt prepares statement should be placed at ·che 
top of it • 
. (5) All information obtained by informants regarding each meeting 
or each separate actiYity in which they c11gage should be sub­
mitted in one statement whether the information is of 
evidentiary or intelligence value. 
NW·ilfflJ21 Doclll~3298952'9 Page 1.394 
10 
2-12-60 
l 
l 
I 
I l 
) 
l ! 
i ~; 
; 
: 
) l 
I 
i 
l 
'"l' ffl 
I I I 
