107M - 0 SEC'.i.10N 107. SOURCJi:S 
b. t./hen~vcr a paid inform::..nt and/or source becomes unemployecl or 'has 
knowledge of impending unemployment, discuss all facts with him and 
submit observations ancl recom;-.~indations to Bureau. Unless advised 
to the contrary by the Bureau, follow recommended action. Er~ch 
office must assume thti res ponsi bill ty of guard in(: against informant I s 
accepting a Bureau payment that wouJ.tl conflict with unemployment 
compensation laws . .At the same time, weigh seriously the possibln 
need for an informant to apply and accept unemployment compensation to 
prc.,·r.eot his security. :fellow members of the pertinent subverf:ive 
02·;:· '1iza.tion may be aware of his unemployment status and would expect 
r.i· -to apply. Where a state :r·equire:, notification of Bu.rea,.1. payments 
tc informants that would necessitate disclosure of ·l;he:i.r identity, 
then Burea:u payme;:ts should be discontinued during the period t·hey 
:receive unemploymer,t oompenf'a tion benefits. 
9. Handling woney and property received by double agents 
ao Double agents must turn over to the Bureau any mon·ey or property 
received from thei~ principals in connection with the double agent 
intelligence operation. This should bo made clear to the double 
agent at the inception of the operation (consider obtaining a signed 
stat;.:r:ient to th:i. s effect}. Exceptions to this rule 11rns·I; be specifi­
cally ~.pproved ._ :; the Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements must 
be made for paym~nts to double agents for services rendered to the 
Burea.u. . . 
• b. Any money or property received by a double agc-n t from his principal 
represents possible future evidence and the double-agent should 
• execute a statement desori bing the money received by type of currency, 
denomination, series. of issue, and serial number and appropriately 
desc-ribing any other property received. This statement should be. 
signed by ~he double agent's code name. 
o. Honey or -property receiYed from double ·a.gents should be retaj_ned as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, p2.rt II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. • 
a. Bureau .A.gen-'i.:s re·ceiving such money or property from double agents • 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refresh­
ing recoliection in the event testimony is later necessary. 
O. SEMIAliNU.AL LETTER 
A semiannual letter should be submitted to the Bureau by each office as 
follows: . 
1. List the symbol numbers of all security informants and confidential 
sources being paid under Bureau authority (not SAC authority) for 
services or expenses. If the confidential source has no symbol 
number, list his name. 
2 • .Also list the symbol numbers of all security informants not paid 
under Bureau authority. 
3. Set forth any comments concerning the preie:,•r,t status of the -informant 
oove1·age of the office·, together with inf,, ':.ation concerning what actions 
are being taken to improve t.he security ir • .Yrmant coverage. 
,. As a separate section of the semiannual le~~er, list under ttHeadquarters 
City" and each resident agency ail subYersi~e organizations:b~oken down 
into each division and unit ther·eof, such as clubs, committees, and· 
chapters. 
Under each unit the approximate membership, together with the symbol 
numbers and positions· of security informants affording coverage, should· 
be set out. Where no informant coverage exists or where coverage is 
provided by informants or sources who are not members, such factors should 
be shown relative to each unit. 
Semiannual letters may include any additional pertinent information re 
informant co,eraie that may be helpful in over-all evaluation, sue~ as 
informants in other divisions who are occasionally utilized and highly 
placed intormants who furnish area-wide, national, or international 
information . 
. NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1435 
.. 
\. 
...:.; ; 
• I 
