( 
( 
( 
I [ 
[ 
[ 
I [ 
~) 
(3) Dan~erou-haracteristics of subject, 
carries firearms. 
f\. 
•• --~ 
e:• notation 
(4) Any special information needed to locate subject. 
if subject 
(5) Notation that security flash notice (FD-165) has been posted 
with Id~ntification Division 
(6) FBI number and fingerprint classification, when available. 
• Case should normally be kept pending to secure all pertinent identifying­
data enumerated in paragraphs a. and b. above. However, if it 
appears a considerable amount of effort would be required to obtain a 
particular i tern., use judgment in deciding whether to continue in 
pending status solely for this purpose. 
Use FD-186 to report above information. File in case file. 
5. Arrangement of ADEX 
a. At FBIHQ. 
Index is printed on IBM cards, two copies of which are sent to 
field. An alphabetical breakdown of true names and al·l _aliases of 
subjects is maintained at FBIHQ. 
b. In field office 
Index is maintained in three sections: 
(1) Alphabetical section 
This section includes one complete set of current ADEX cards. 
(2) Geographical section 
This section includes ADEX cards of all subjects except those 
who are missing, temporarily out of the country, or in prison. 
Geographical section is broken dovm by residence address in 
accord with needs of each office, ·e.g., by state, county, city, 
or if needed, into boroughs or suburbs. Cards are filed 
alphabetically ~nder each such breakdown. 
(3) Unavailable section 
•This section includes cards of individuals who are missing, out of 
the country for an indefinite period, or imprisoned, broken down 
into three corresponding subsections~· • • 
(a) Missing subjects 
(b) Subjects out of country for indefinite period . 
Include foreign residence and employment addresses on 
FD-122, if known. Place stops with INS to be advised of 
subject's.return. Verify foreign residence annually. 
(c) Subjects imprisoned • 
Identify institution in which subject is incarcerated on 
FD-122. Request prison authorities to notify us of subject's 
release and set tickler to verify. 
6. Special interest subjects 
Following classes of individuals could be of special interest in national 
emergency: 
a. Espionage subjects 
Any action taken in these cases should be handled, if possible, in 
such manner as to not destroy the opportunity to penetrate. an active 
espionage network. 
b. Foreign government employees 
Any action taken in these cases must be handled so as to minimize the 
possibilities of diplomatic repercussions. 
21 
6-6-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1381 
