13-00000 .. 
b. The President then expressed his great concern 
over the emergent situation in Panama. He said that he 
had proposed injecting himself directly into the problem 
yesterday with a public statement and approaches to the 
OAS specifically to lay down publicly exactly what the facts 
were as regards Panamian aggression, intrusions into the 
Zone, killing of American soldiers with rifle bullets by 
snipers while they were armed only with bird shot, etc., 
etc. He said that he had been dissuaded from this course 
by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State and 
others. He said he was shocked to read in this morning's 
New York Times a story (presumably the Tad Szulc article) 
that pretty well covered exactly what his proposals were. 
He said he still felt i\ was a good idea and that he thought 
Harriman, Rusk, McNamara, Johnson, and others should 
assemble small groups of Latin American Ambassadors and 
tell them what he, the President, wanted to tell them. He 
thought it was an even better idea if he did it hirpself. I did 
not get the impression that a decision was made in this 
regard nor do I think any action will be taken as a result of 
this meeting. Unfortunately the discussion centered then 
on the security aspects of leaks to the public and the President 
expressed in no uncertain terms, with great persuasiveness 
and even more emphasis, his unhappiness at his complete 
inability to say anything to anyone without its immediately' 
being in the papers or getting around town. He made some 
very pointed comments reflecting on the integrity of the State 
Department and of the Department of Defense in this regard. 
He felt. the situation had become extremely serious in the past 
two months since he had become President and did not recall 
any such problem when he was meeting periodically with 
Pres.ident Kennedy. He said he was prepared to clean house 
wherever necessary to overcome this. Secretary Rusk pointed 
out that this had been going on for twenty years and was nothing 
new and McNamara agreed. The President thought it was 
worse than he had ever seen it before and that in his 22 years 
on the Armed Services Committee and around the Hill he had 
never been involved in anything like this nor had he ever been 
