13-00000 
. , ... ·.-.·-.· .• 
•~~~·•,.~)•~!I·,· 
~J 
• 
.. , .-·-~-_; 
,; .. ,.:. 
--···-····---
-~·-.·.•.'.-:\-····_ ·.-
_., 
... 
. . 
Mr. DULLES. Can we have a copy of It? 
Mr. HOOVER. Oh, yes. 
Representative FoRD. Could the copy be put in the i:-ecord as an exhibit? 
Mr. HoovEd. Yes, sir; that is all right with me. • I have no objection to it. 
Regarding travel, first, advise the Secret Service as far in advance as possible 
of the President's travel plans and proposed itinerary. The reason for that is 
there have been Presidents who suddenly decide they are going somewhere !nd 
the Secret Service does not have the chance always to cover the area and check 
the neighborhood and check the hotel or place where It may be. 
Representative Booos. You have one like that right now, Mr. Director. 
Mr. HooVEB. I know from experience. 
SecOlod, avoid publicizing exact routes of travel as long as possible. Again, 
It has been the practice In the pa~t to announce the President ls going along a 
certain route and, therefore, great crowds will gather along that route. And, 
therefore, I thought that was something that should not be given out and the 
President should be taken along some routes which are not announced. At 
the present time,· he goes to cities and he wants to see people and the crowd 
wants to see·hlm. In Dallas, the route was publicized. at least 24 hours before 
so everybody knew where he would be driving. 
Third, use a specially armored car with bulletproof glass and have such cars 
readily available In locations frequently visited. The President, as I observed 
earlier In~ testimony, had no armored car. He has one now which I supplied 
to Secret Service and they will have one made no doubt In due time for the 
President's use. But if It had been armored, I believe President Kennedy would 
be alive- today. 
Fourth, avoid setting a specific pattern of travel or other activity such ae 
visiting the same chureh at the same time each Sunday. 
Regarding publil! appearances.· First, use maxi.mum feasible screening of 
persons In attendance Including use of detection devices sensitive to the amount 
of metal required In a firearm or grenade. 
Second, use a bulletproof shield In -front of the entire rostrum In public ap­
pearances such as the swearing In ceremony at the Capitol on Inauguration day, 
the presidential reviewing stand In front of the White House on the same day 
and on the rear of trains. 
Third, keep to a minimum the President's movements with.In crowds, remain 
on the rostrum after the public addresses rather than mingling with the 
audience. • Again, there ls great dlffl.culty In that field. • 
Fourth, in appearances at public SJ>Ortlng events such as football games, 
remain In one place rather than changing sides during half-time ceremonies. 
(Discussion off the record.) • • • 
Mr. DuLu:s. About the armored car you said if Kennedy had an armored 
car that might have saved him. Would the back of the armored car have some 
protection to protect his head? 
Mr. HooVEL Oh, yes. 
Mr. DULLES. Because if the armored ~r had been open-.-
Mr. HooVEL He must never ride In an open car; that has been my recom­
mendation. 
Mr. DULLES. The back never comes down? 
Mr. HooVEB. The back never comes down, and It ls bulletproof. The top, 
sides, and underpart are all of bulletproof construction. So that except by 
opening a window and waving through the window the occupant ls safe. A 
person can shoot through the window if the glass window ls lowered. 
Fifth, llmlt public appearances by use of television whenever possible. 
Sixth, avoid walking lli public except when absolutely necessary. 
Now, on legislation. First, I recommended that the President and the Vice 
President be added to the list of Federal officers set out i.n section 1114, title 18 
of the U.S. Code which deals with assaults which are punishable under Federal 
law. 
Mr. RANKIN. You would add to that I understood from your prior remarks, 
the Speaker and the Pres.ldent Pro Tempore? 
Mr. HOOVER. In view of the situation which prevails at the present time the 
117 
