SUBJECT 
G 
Alleged Information on Assassination of 
President Kennedy 
cause of Vlasenco's nationality, and the timing of the assassi­
nation six months after the blockade of Cuba, Kovacs concludes 
that the assassination was ordered by "Brezhnev and Fidel 
Castro."· 
e. Vlasenco told Kovacs in November, 1963 that he 
rented the apartment, dealt in precious stones, and had lived 
there for four years. Vlasenco was away from the apartment dur­
ing the day, dressed well, had no family and no car. Kovacs 
guesses he saw him three times during the two week period. 
f. Kovacs asked that the above story be passed to 
Senator Edward Kennedy, and at first refused to identify himself 
and the characters in his story to anyone but the Senator or 
his emissary because he was afraid for his life. It was for 
that reason also that he claims he did not come forward until 
now. Kovacs was assured that his story would not appear in 
any newspaper or magazine (which he feared would happen), but 
would be sent to Washington by a coded message. Towards the 
end of the interview Kovacs alluded to his need for money 
(CR $500,000 about US $11,500) to fund his inventions; one a 
dirigible which could carry "any amount of cargo," and one a 
pump which could pump liquids hundreds of miles. When asked 
if he had made an effort to interest local entrepreneur~ Kovacs 
replied that he had expended considerable effort, "but they 
laugh at me." Kovacs appears to have a confused thinking 
process and lively imagination and his story is contradictory. 
He probably came forward in the hope that his information 
would be worth money. We do not know whether he himself be­
lieves the story he related. 
2. &!:ir representativjt
6
in Rio de Janeiro has been advised 
to have no further contact with Kovacs. Should addees wish to 
pursm the matter, Kovacs' present address is Rua A. 46, Vila 
Luiza, Pavuna, Rio de Janeiro. 
3. This Agency has no identifiable traces on Kovacs or 
Vlasenco. 
CIR 316/00637-80 
- 3--
s E C R E T 
Hlf 50953 Docid:32168174 Page 3 
