13-00000 
•- - :;o:isu.1va· 
0 
to determine this name. "The Little Bull, 11 "The Little Worm," 
"The Friendly Worm, " "The Fighting Friend, 11 '_'The Tough Peasant, " 
or any such name which is acceptable and meaningful in Spanish 
could suffice, Over a period of several months the name could be 
"dropped" or ieaked through U.S. officialdom, in diplomatic channels, 
in intelligence channels or within -the Cuban exile co~unlty. Specific 
acts against the Regime could be credited to -this individual or mem­
bers of his group. Communicationa could.be.arranged between this 
individual and his subordinates to be ,picked up either by Castro's 
censors or by_ r11,dio intercept in Cuba or in the U, S .• 
After ·a ·period of time, all unexplained incidents and actions 
for which credit has not been seized by some other exile.group would 
automatically be ascribed to our imaginary friend. At some point in 
time it could be leaked that the U, S, is, ·in fact, supporting this 
imaginary person. ·similarly, other Latin American coundies may, 
without inducement,· publicly follow the U.S. pattern. 
During the course of this operation it is quite possible that the · 
Castro Regime could indicate that the activities of this individual were 
terminated, that the individual was captured, that he was being pur­
sued, or that he was an imaginary faker or fraud. Such ac~on would 
only serve to further publicize the actions of the individual and so long 
as resistance in geue:ral continued ·the fame of our "Cuban Kilroy" 
would spread. Humos:ous antics could be credited to our imaginary 
friend and rumors of his exploits of bravery (ala Zoro) could be 
circuJ,ated. • 
At some point in time it may be wise to indicate what this 
individual stands for. (lt will become obvious that he is opposed to 
the Regime in Cuba.) It could be poHible to .indicate little-by-little 
his political platform in very general terms -- realizing that the 
mistique and the "generalness" connected with his operation is, in 
fact, _the power behind the .operation. Ultimately, Cubans and others 
may demand that he proclaim his complete political views or even 
that he present himself physically. Since this is not desirable, 
3 
