SECRE1 Betsy Palmer 
I 
April 5, 1978 
Review of' Manuel Rey Rivero f'iles 
Assortment of documents not in files at ti.me review began on 3/29/78 
1. 10 June 1966 Dispatch to Chief', WH, From Chief' of' Station, l]:_an~) / 6 - ) 0 
~ subject: Haitian Exile Activities in the Dominican Republic. 
~~vided inf'ormatio"n on Haitian exile activities. On May 30, 
1966,~~S~ was taken to a meeting ~f Godefray Moscoso at the Hotel 
Cpmerdla.l<&.0 (with) 
~[E~ was taken to meeting by Gerard Max Laf'ontant, a Haitian Communist 
At the meeting, Lafontant told Moscoso that Manolo Rey had obtained 
explosives for him to use in the first invasion against Haiti and that 
Rey was now living in the Dominican Republic. Lafontant described Rey 
as a former collaborator of Fidel Castro, but was not now on sepaking 
terms with Castro. He said the Communist-oriented 14th of 
June Revolutionary Movement had on one occasion accused Rey of being a CIA 
Yir/J7Jii agent, but this was not true. Rey can obtain explosives within 
24 hours after the request is made. • 
>/;- 2. Cable to Director f'rom Hunt, August 25, 1960 states that Carrillo ad.vised 
that FRD should keep an eye on new anti-Castro group being formed by Raul 
Chibas and Manuel Ray, Marcel Fernandez, J'ulio Durate and Jose Pepin 
Bosch. Chibas told Carrillo that Miro would follow Chibas line which 
would be neither join nor fight FRD but help if necessary. Bosch 
financing Chibas and Miro with initial credit. Results negative when 
carillo invited new group to join FRD. Carrillo feels if new group 
succeeds, it will try to draw in Feliue Pazos and Ramon Barquin. 
(Note date of cable) 
3. Dispatch to Deputy Chief, WH/SA from Chief of Station, JMWAVE 
dated 14 April 1964 in Mexico, D. F. lengthy and ver-3 rambling 
letter 'Which, among many other things, states the story about Manuel 
Ray being closely associated with ALBIZU C.Ai\fi'OS and friendly with 
Puerto Ricans who -were world.ng on the rennovation of the Wnite House 
and the group that tried to assassinate TrUrnan. (Pencilled notation 
of A. Rodriguez -- "Who is fJ.,IBHCJr/1? Could he be agent provacateur? 
What is his access? Can we taJr..e him seriously?) Although postmarked 
in Mexico, AMSHOT apparently still in Cuba~\(.,lf Not a Cuban citizen - wife 
in U. s. Trying to get a Mexican Visa. 
4. Cable 21 :M:ay 1964 or inf'orrna.tion report. 
On 21 May 1964, unidentif'ied nembers of JURE stated that 
Manuel Ray Rivero entered Guba success:f'ul.ly on 17 May 1964 
and is still there. He departed from an unidentif'ied embarcation point 
l'.!ea.r Cuba at 3 am on 17 May and reached his destination by 10 am that day. 
Ray was accompanied by a labor leader believed to be JOSE GOMEZ RODRIGUEZ 
e..nd a 22 yea.r old man -who was to serve as Ray's communications clerk and 
SECRET 
