( 
':; 
SE.ON 87. 
'·"J . ~ . ij • 
SECURITY IlfVES TIGATI ON'. 87G 
b. Definition 
Top functionary is individual who is on.high.:.policy level in CPUSA, 
other ·subversive organizations, or unorganized groups, to 1·rhom it 
is necessary to give continuous investigative attentiqn because of 
his importance. Term "top functionary" does ··not require that in­
dividuals actually hold official positions in organizations but is 
given broad construction to include others of equal importance be­
cause of their influence in movement itself, or their.position and· 
activities outside movement in labor, front, or similar organiza­
tions. Consider black nationalist extremists whose importance jus­
tifies continuous investigative attention. 
c. Manner of designation 
Prior Bureau authority necessary to designate subject as top func- • 
tionary. Top functionaries are to be in priority I and reports are 
submitted annually. 
d. Regulations governing handling of top functio.na.ries 
(1) Designation and deletion qf top functionary st~tus 
Handle by letter to Bureau containing brief statement of reason 
for designation or deletion. 
(2) Photographs 
Obtain photographs for each top functionary. Send two copies 
(one for Secret Service) to Bureau, either by cover letter 
or as enclosure to report. Maintain copy in subject's file. 
If album of top functionary phot~graphs maintained, keep 
duplicate in subject's file. 
{3) Handwriting specimens 
Obtain suitable handwriting specimens of each top functionary. 
When possible, obtain specimens from public recoras, law enforce­
ment agencies, and similar sources. Send specimens to Bureau 
under separate cover letter by registered mail for attention 
of FBI Laboratory. When they may be of value as evidence, so 
state in transmittal letter and request their return after copies 
have been w2de. Specimens should be suffi9ient to permit future 
comparisons by Laboratory. 
{4) Security index cards 
Request preparation by FD-122 at earliest possible moment. 
(5) Change of office of origin . 
FD-128 changing office of origin on top functionary automatically 
deletes him as top functionary in old office and adds him as 
top functionary in new office. 
(6) [Deleted) 
e. Y~intenance of list 
Each office must maintain current list of tcp functionaries. 
14. Correlation of other investigations with security index and reserv-e index 
Individuals investigated by Bureau under any classification against whom 
subversi-ve information is developed must be considered for security 
index and/or reserve index. This includes espionage, foreign intelligence, 
applicant-type, and security of Government employees (SGE) investigations. 
When individual previously investigated under SGE classification is security 
index subject and is still employed by Federal Government or is,being con­
sidered for Federal employment, use dual character of "Security- of Govern­
ment Employees" and character of security case in reports to insure 
routing to proper field and Bureau desks for supervision. Use sta~dards 
prevailing for SGE reports. Disseminate these reports as any other secu­
rity report. Advise representatives of other agencies requesting reports 
of SGE investigation to direct request to their headquarters for referral 
to Bureau. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 47 
9-13-71 
I 
j 
l 
i 
f 
' ! 
l 
I 
I 
. i 
I 
• 1 
I 
i 
l ! 
I 
