13-00000 
approximately 30,000 pages of notes, letters and memos created by the HSCA or its 
staff. The boxes are a combination of files on subjects and persons of interest to HSCA 
including documents prepared by the Agency as a result of the investigation, eight 
boxes of security files and Mexico City cable chrono files. The boxes contain a 
significant amount of duplication (most of the Oswald 201 documents appear multiple 
times in this part of the collection). A declassified version was released in August 1993, 
then re-released under ARRB in 1997. • 
JFK Microfilm (72 reels): These reels are copies of Agency files that were made 
available to HSCA staff. Although the HSCA interest usually focused on a small portion 
of a file, the Committee sequestered the complete file. The microfilm includes 
approximately 25 reels of 201 files, 6 reels of Office of Personnel files, 14 reels of 
Anti/Castro - Cuban exile material, extensive files on Nosenko and operational and 
production files from Mexico City. The microfilm also contains copies of all the Oswald 
files except for the security file. 
DCI Morning Meeting Minutes 
This file contain 442 excerpts from the minutes of the DCl's Morning Meetings 
that refer to JFK assassination and related issues and investigations. The initial search 
for the minutes was in response to an FOIA. The material was turned over to HRG in 
1993 for review and inclusion into the Collection. 
Russ Holmes' Working Files (19 boxes) 
Russ Holmes was a DO officer initially assigned to work on JFK assassination 
records in the mid-70s. He was one of the Agency's liaison officers with the HSCA 
during its investigation and subsequently became custodian of HSCA sequestered 
collection . He continued in this role until 1992. 
As the focal point for JFK related requests, Russ Holmes created a JFK 
reference file know as the "Ancillary Collection• (13 boxes). The contents are primarily 
duplicative (approximately 80%) of material found in Oswald's 201 and in the 
sequestered collection, but organized by subjects and requests. The collection contains 
some non-related material reflecting Holmes' involvement in other FOIA, etc. requests. 
There were an additional six boxes of unorganized reference material and files from his 
office transferred to HRG when he retired. These 19 boxes became know as the "Russ 
Holmes Working Files" and were declared assassination records as a collection by the 
ARRB. Non-duplicative records from this collection were released in September 1998. 
The duplicative material is currently being reviewed and will be transferred to NARA in 
early January 1999. 
LA Division JFK Task Force Files 
The survey undertaken in response to Executive Order ##### located seven 
boxes of DO Latin American Division continuing JFK Task Force files and related Cuban 
material. The ARRB staff reviewed the boxes; the non-duplicative JFK Task Force 
