MHIRONY 
WUEMBARK/~JUHALF IN 
\.JUSTAKE/WUHOBBY 
. WUSA~A/WUBLUSEE 
MOMARRON 
1,JLJLAZY 
.c-~-; • " 79 -
r:n.( . -~~ 1 
TAB D 
Page 4 
This proprietary was established for the use of 
the insurance complex, but it was never activated. 
The corporate shell was sQld in 1974 to the un­
witting attornies who served as resident agents. 
No agreement was made with the purchaser for 
the continued use of the entity, and, to date, 
no such use has been made of the entity. 
This air proprietary was merged i-,ith another 
air proprietary (ZRCLIFF} in 1968. 
This air proprietary was sold to the businessman 
t-Jhd managed the proprietary during the period 
of Agency ownership on the condition that the 
Agency would buy back the proprietary if the 
contract which sustained the proprietary was 
not renewed by USAID. The USAID contract was 
not renewed, and the businessman dissolved the 
entity on behalf of the Agency in 1968. 
This air proprietary was disposed of by trans­
ferring all assets to another air proprietary 
and turning over the corporate shell to two 
unwitting foreign national nominees. No agreement 
with the nominees for the purchase of goods or 
services subsequent to the turn over was negotiated 
or implied, and, to date, no use has been made of· 
the entity by the Agency. 
This proprietary was established in the Far East 
by two foreign agents of the Agency to provide 
supp~rt services for Agency-sponsored air opera­
tions. The company failed, at least partly due 
to embezzlement by the two agents, and was 
liquidated apparently in late 1962 or early 1963. 
The Agency station in the country involved 
continued to maintain a covert relationship with 
·the two agents who were politically significant 
for some time after the liquidation. The re­
lationship was non-proprietary. 
This proprietary •:✓as involved in support of air 
activities for a.large Agency paramilitary 
program in Africa. At such time as the program 
was concluded, all assets were removed from 
the company, and the corporate shell was given 
to tl1e attorney ~vho established the entity in 
lieu of paying his prospective fee for dissolv­
ing the corporation. 
-
i--,.. .. 
!~ .... 
k~lt:. 
,,,, .. ,· 
t 
