87D 
[ 
(4) 
d. Key 
(1) 
(2) 
SE SECURI'.l'Y nTVE STIGATIOi. 
• olassified contracts with the key faoility.) Copies of report~ 
for the Marintl Corps should be disseminated locally to OHI. 
•"Dissemination to the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), Defense 
Atomic Support Agency (DASA) (formerly Armed Forces Spe2ial 
Weapons Project), the Re search and Development Board (RDB·), 
and the Mari time Administration {MA} will be• made at the 
Bureau, and not in the field, 
Status of cases 
After all active investigation conducted, place in a closed 
status. Forty-five days before report due, make·case pending 
·active and check with armed services representative at the 
key facility, or with other reliable sources, to determirie 
whether subject has access to classified or restricted· 
material. 
figure and top functionary program 
General 
Purpose of key figure and top functionary program is to select 
for special attention those individuals in~ subversive 
movement who are of outstanding importance to the effectiveness 
of the movement. 
Key figure and top functionary program is described below as 
pertaining to the Communist Party, USA. However, it also 
applies to important individuals active in or on behalf of 
o·ther basic revolutionary groups. 
Key figures 
(a) Definition 
A key figure is an individual, either a member or non­
member of the Communist Party or other basic· revolutionary 
organization, who, by reason of his official positi~n in 
the organization or his connections with the comrm.:·, : st 
movement and his activities on its behalf, is cons~~ered 
·of sufficient importance and potential dangerousness 
from an interna·l security standpoint to require inmiediate 
apprehension or detention in the event of an emergency.· 
Individuals coming within the following categories shall 
be considered within the definition of a key figure: 
I. National, district, and state officers and the ·principal 
officers of the local clubs of the Communist Party 
II. The principal organizers of the Communist Party 
III. Those communists who are executive officers or· out­
standing figures in establis.hed communist front or 
communist-controlled organizations, foreign ·1anguage 
groups, and Negro organizations infiltrated by 
communists 
IV. Individuals extensively.engaged in communist • 
infiltration of the labor movement, including 
principal officers of labor organizations who 
are members of or close~y affiliated with the 
Communist Party. In ·. '' 
., 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 661 
66 
.·s-13-64 
