oo 
SF 
1. 
\tJ. E. B. ~u BOIS CLUBS or P}1EP.ICA ( DCA) 
A source has advised that on October 26-27, 1963, a 
c~nference of merr,bers of the Communist ?arty (CP), includinf 
national functionaries, met in Chicapo, IlJinois, for the purpose 
of setting in motion forces for the establishment of a new 
national ~2rxist-criented youth org2nizati0n which would hunt 
for the most peaceful transition to socialism. The delegates 
to this meetin~ were cautioned 2gainst the perm of anti-Soviet 
~nd anti-CP ideoloqies. These felesates were also told that it 
would be reason.==1_bl; to assume thc1t the vounp socialists 
?ttracted into this new orqanization woulrt eventually pass into 
the CD its e 1 f. 
A second tonference of over 20 persons ~et in Chicago 
on December 28-29, 1963, for the i;:iuroose of initiatirH! a "call'' 
to the new youth organization and Dlannin~ for a foundinq 
convention to be held in June, 1964. 
A second source has advised that the founding convention 
for the new youth orranization was held from June 19-21, l964i 
at 150 ~olden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California, at which 
ti me the narre "l. E. B. I"uSois Clubs of Prnerica ( DCA) was ad op tee. 
Annroxi:mately 50 0 de lepa tes from throughout the United States 
atrended this convention. The 2ims of this organization, as set 
forth in the Drearnble to the constitution, a.re, "It is cur 
belief that this nation can best solve its probleres in an 
atmosDhere of peacefuJ. coexistence, ccmolete disarmament and true 
freedo~ for all peoples cf the worlJ, an~ that these solutions 
will he reached mainly throuph the united efforts of all democratic 
elements in our country, comnosed essentially of the working people 
cllied in the unity of Heproes and other minor·ities with whites. 
We further fully recognize that the greatest threat to American 
democracy cof'1es from the racist and right win~ forces in 
coalition with the JTWst re2ctionary sections of the economic power 
structure, usin9 the too] of anti-Communism to divide and destroy 
the uni-~ied struggle of the workin~ neoole. As young people in 
the forces strugglin~ for cie~ocracy, we shall actively strive to 
clefea.t these reactionary and r:eo-fascist eler:rlents and to achieve 
complete freedom and democracy for aJ.l Americans, thus enabling 
each individual to freely choose and build the society he would 
wish to live in. Through these stru0pJ..es we feel the American 
peoole will realize the· viability of the socialist alternative." 
APPEFDIX 
943 
76 
NW 38613 Docld:34530150 79 
