CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
a,uo S STIISST NW, 
WASHINGTON 29, D. C. 
Date 2 Je.JlU&17 52 
Dea.r ili.i.Uil 11. nm' 
l. Thie is t.o notify you that the United States Government, ae rep­
resented by the Central Intell.Jaence Jieenc7, has accepted ;rour emplo1JIIMl;t 
effective 
Positions AI>mi!. CLEBI 
Base Salary: <13-S !~1~. 
2 • l'ou v1ll be: 
a. Entitled to annual tmd. •1ck leave 1n ~em-dance with Civil 
Service C0mm.1aaion rulea 80d. :regulattone, or such other pravil!liona 
of law or regulatione a• J11A1 be eat4bliahed 1n lieu thereof. 
b. Be!mbureed for travel expenaea 1n accordance ¥1th CIA R98U­
lat1ons or Standardized Goffl'JDlent Travel Regulations, a.a maended. 
o. If st8.tioned outeide contiJ:lent&l United Statea, granted euch 
ll!Onetary al.1ovancee as are preaer1bed by CU :Regulations. 
3, As a canditlon of yovr emplo,ment b7 the Central Intelligence 
Agency, ;you are eub,,ect to aea!gnment to tours of duty at poets outside 
the continental Uni tad States. Each t:11:le you are ao aae1gned, un1eae 
otherwise specified 1n advance by CIA, 7ou vill be required to remain at 
the poet to which assigned for a period of 24 lllOD.ths from the date of ar­
rival thereat, unless sooner transferred, reassigned or separated for rea­
sons beyond your control. If' you vieh to return to the United States for 
personal reasons during tha.t period, all travel and treneportation coete 
incident to such return will be borne by you, vith no expense to the 
Government. 
4. If thie eln!)lOymant is for assignment to en overseas poet, it 1a 
understood and agreed that, wll.eee earlier separated for reasons beyond 
your control, you vill remain 1n Governmant service for 12 months after 
your arrival at your firat overa-,ae post, and if you violate this aeree­
ment, any money expended by the United States on account of your travel 
and the transportation of your 1.lmriediate family and household good.a will 
be considered a debt due to the United States. 
5. Employment is conditioned upon satisfactory completion of the 
training courses prescribed by CIA and satisfactory performance of duty 
for a total period of six months from date of employment. In the event 
