( 
/ 
i \ ,,_ 
[ 
1.
\ :, 
SECTION SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONF·-NTIAL SOURCES. 1070.-R 
Q.. CORRECTIVE AC';rION OH FALSE INFORMATION 
1. When it is determined that informant or ex-informant fu.rninhed false informa­
tion while informant, promptly advise Bureau of complete facts. 
2. Set forth your nuggestion relative to wording to be used in describing 
informa~t in future, such as: "informant of known unreliability" or 
"informant who has furnished both reliable and unreliab.le information in 
the past." 
3. Bureau will advise which designation ·to·use. Then proceed with review of 
all data furninhed by individual and label. information from him accordingly. 
'4. All cornr.mnications containing information from informant which have been 
disseminated to Bureau, other Bureau offices, and to outside agencies 
must be corrected. • 
5. Idintify cases individually by title and character, together with dates 
of coI!lI:lunica.tions' containing information. 
6. If information was used in reports, corrective letters shoula. be crystal 
clear and refer to specific report, page number, and change to be made. 
7 . .Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by Bureau in 
a.cco;r:-da.nce with part II, section 4, of Yianual of Rule~ and Regulations. 
Corrective action should be called to a·ttention of othe:r: Bureau offices, 
outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
8. Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further dissemina­
tion of information to follow instructions set forth above. 
9. Set up control file regarding this corrective action, and upon completion 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
of same submit to Bureau final letter under informant• s caption identifying 
each case by title, character, Bureau file, where known, and date of com­
munication. This letter will be used to' check all pertinent Bureau files 
to see that necessary corrective action has been taken. 
If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
informant should also be requested to submit summary letters showing what 
corrections have been made. • 
All information from informant must be correctly labeled and great care 
must be taken to see that this is done. 
Occasionally, ex-inforwAnt through his speech, writings, or actions raises 
a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to time he was informant. It 
is not necessary to go back and change evaluation of information attributed 
to that individual in absence of definite indication that informant furnished 
unreliable information while he was informant. 
Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability and 
known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, section 5, 
113.nual of Rules and Regulations. 
R. COlITIDENTIA.L SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assitn.~ent of symbols 
a. A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is taken 
to develop an individual as a confidential source. 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning symbol number> and brief state­
ment concerning type of information furnished. 
c. Abbreviation 11CS" may be used_ in intra-Bureau communicatio'ns for 
confidential source; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS." Communications relating 
to espionage and foreign nationality ma.tters should in addition 
have a character indicating country involved; e.g., IS - R. 
d. When permanent symbol has been assigned to confidential s::iurce, 
abbreviation 11GS 11 is to-appear before symbol number; e.g .• GS NY·ooo-s. 
e. Numbers assigned to confiden~ial sources are to be taken from series 
of numbers used for security, extremist, and criminal informants. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1180 
21 
10-13-71 
,l 
l 
