1 
W.E.B. DU BOIS CLUB OF SAN FRANCISCO, 
aka Du3ois Youth Group, San Francisco 
DuBois Club, San Francisco DuBois 
Youth Group~ Student-Labor Alliance 
A source advised that on January 31, 1963, the l·J.E.B. 
DuBois Club of San Francisco held its first general meeting 
at California Hall, Polk and Turk Streets, San Francisco, 
California, at which time the aims of the club were put forth 
as follows by TERENCE "KAYO" HALLINAN: 
(1) Alleviate the Negro problem in the United States. 
(2) Promote peaceful co-existence between the United 
States and Russia. 
(3) Pro~ote and encourage Marxist doctrines and to 
bring about a socialistic government in the 
United States. 
A second source advised in March 1963 that the DuBois 
Club was both conceived and originated by TERENCE HALLINAN. 
A third source has advised tha~ TERENCE HALLINAN 
attended a Communist Party Youth Commission 
meeting in San Francisco in October 1963. 
Conunencing in March 19 6 3, the DuBois Club published 
a newsletter entitled 11 San Francisco Mews and :,.Jorld '?eport." 
In its first issue a "Proposed Statement of Principles" was set 
forth in which the club's aforementioned aims were elaborated 
upon. In the same issue the lead editorial in part described the 
San Francisco DuBois Club as" ... a group of young people who 
are convinced that Socia.ism is the only answer to the many problems 
of our time and so find philosophical rapport with the life ~d 
thought of Dr. DU BOIS, nevertheless, we are weighed with humility 
in comparing our goals and ambitions with the genius of his life 
and work. As a source of inspiration, the figure of W.E.B. DU BOIS 
is unequaled in American history, but as a standard and example, 
we seem miserably lost in his shadow. We can only resolve that 
we do his name no dishonor, and whatever we may accomplish should 
be recognized as a supplement to his life work." 
The November 25, 1961, isst.12 of the 
"People's \Jorld," a \·Jest Coast col!lmunist 
newspaper published in San Francisco, 
contains an article on page 12 reflecting 
~PPEi-TDI X 3 4 6 
10 
NW 38613 Docld:34528578 74 
