l 
. 
' 
( 
\ I 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
.r 
4. 
d. 
e. 
-=· .,_ . 
g. 
h. 
Do 
a. 
SECTIONII. -PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, ).ND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
PART II 
Accura.tely 
After a review of the entire file 
In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
To include as many pertinent photographs as possible to make the 
write-up interesting. The photographs should not neoes sarily be of 
subjects alone but should be of paraphernalia used by the criminal, 
photographs of unusual loot obtained, scenes of various locales, eto. 
If photographs submitted QO not belong to the FBI, it is necessary 
to inform the Bureau of their source and whether the owner of the 
photographs has any objection to their being reproduced in publi­
cations. 
not: 
Identify law enforcement officers by name but by title and NA affilia­
tion 
b. Show aliases of subjects of Dependents Assistance Act of 1950 
o. Show aliases of victims of WSTA oases 
d. Use complicated sentence structure 
e. Use technical references to statutes 
f. Express personal opinions 
g. Reveal identity of confidential informants 
h. Use Bureau expressions like "the subject" and 11the Bureau" 
i. Prepare interesting case write-ups on ·juveniles, sex offenders, and 
parole violators but submit these by letter 
j. Use adjectives excessively 
5. Transmittal 
Set forth all data necessary for Bureau's consideration at the beginning 
of ·write-up and then follow with interesting case data. Transmit by 
routing slip, attention Crime Records Divi~ion. 
[6. Dissemination 
New ones issued by the Bureau should be carefully reviewed for possible 
interest to feature writers in field office territory and consid.eration 
given to supplying them to appropriate writers. If there is an appreci­
able passage of time after issuance, obtain Bureau approval before re­
lease. Pertinent photographs, if available, will be furnished by the 
Bureau on request.] 
E. CIRCULAR LETTERS, TRADE J.ND BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS 
1. Circular letters must be approved in advance by the Bureau a·nd sent in 
by the office initiating the request. 
2. SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-
type institutions within their own divisions to expedite oircularization 
of known serial numbers of money included in the loot taken in a bank 
robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny. In all instances this letter 
must include the following: 
a. .A brief concise statement concerning the bank robbery, bank. burglary, 
or bank larceny and the fact that included in the loot or money 
taken was money, the serial numbers of which are known 
b. List of known serial numbers according to denomination, series year 
if known, alphabetical order, and numerical sequence 
c, A statement that the matter is to be treated oonfidentialiy 
d. A cautionary statement that no bank employee should take any action 
which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety 
e. The address and the telephone number of the field office with a 
statement that any person should contact the field office by calling 
collect 
In all other instances, including requests for ciroularization in other 
field divisions, prior Bur.eau approval must be obtained in accordance 
with existing rules governing circular letters. 
3. Auxiliary offices are to advise the office of origin by letter of the 
results obtained through a circular letter. Office of origin should 
sum.~arize the results in its next report. 
3 
8-26-60 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 913 
