~ 
t 
Betsy palmer 
Review of Ma.Iiolo_Ray y Rivero Files - Volumes 1 - XVIII 
April 24, 1978 
_Volume VIII - September 4, 1962 - December 27, 1962 
1. Telegram Information Report (circa Sept. 10) Unevaluated information. 
Ray in the U.S. 8-9 September. Intends forming new organization. Some of 
those partici1>ating vi.th Ray in this effort are Feli-pe Pazos, Raul Chibas, 
Ramon Barquin am Justo Carrillo. Ray is of the opinion that nothing 
vill be done about CUba in the immediate future as the President of the 
United States is :ful.fil.l.ing "an expedient of a political nature. 
11 
Ho_wever, 
there is an al1.y in the White House wo has assured Ray that if he organizes 
a purely revolutionary group, he vi.11 be heard. 
2. 
l.. 
2. 
3. 4. 
5. 6. 
1. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
2. 
Junta Revolucionaria CUbana 
Declaration of Principles outline the following areas: • 
Cuban Reaffirmation - recognition of sovereignty of the people, through suf'frag€ 
Human Rights - human fraternity and social. solidarity for all Cubans 
Social Justice - eq:uality of opportunity for education, -work, homes, etc. 
Economic Development - intense industrial.ization 
Agrarian Reform - CUban pesantry to O'Wil land he cultivates 
International Relations - break vi.th Soviet bloc 
Restoration of Legitimate Property - not that under public pover 
P<i>l.itical Parties - Communist Party vill be proscribed. 
PoliticaZl.. Prisoners - immediate release 
. Elections - within 18-month period 
Dispatch to Chief, Task Force W from Chief of Station, JMWAVE 
Date obscured. 
• : • · , c:' AMTHRILL-l.Jprovided information on Ray obtained frodsilvia KOURI de 
.. • Pendast)a fellow student of Ray's at Institute de Segund.~~senanza #1 in 
Havana. Ray never knowto have sympathy for C"'.ommunist cause. However, one 
of bis good friends, Pedro Valdes Vivo, is active member of Communist cell 
• and a brother of. Raul Valdes Vivo, now sub-director of Communist paper· 
"Noticias de Hoy." 
·_. __ •• . .. _· _· . 3. Cable to Priority( San Juan,1Info: Priority JMWAVE, Priori ty~exico City .J 
•• ._ • • . From: Director (R~riguez originator) dated 9 Oct 1962 
. • • JJAdmission visa not pouched 00 forwarding document will be in WAVE hands J 
• : -. 10 October foriass ing to Ray. Le~huga is principal target in area of 
•••• Ray trip. Stress desire keep Lechuga in place in preference to defection. 
4. Memorandum for the Record dated 8 October 1962 from{Fatrick I. Karriley ":J 
Subject: Notes on Manolo Ray . 
In conversation vi th Ms l,a.boy, Laboy said Ray does not have any 
significant follo-ving among CUban exiles -- says Ray is honest person 
cor.ipletely motivated. by patriotism but lacks qualities of a politician. 
Says Ray is too blunt and even Cisneros is not happy vi.th him these days. 
Puerto Ri~l11 Police are apparently canvassing CUban exiles regarding Manolo 
• nay. Inf(o1jl.H-V.{eport f54 dated 30 Sept 1962, he refere to fact that both he 
am Fe~ .Alvarez Silva were visited by officer of PR Internal Security Force 
soliciting thei~ opinions of ~ay. 
S~CRET 
