; , 
• • • 10. I undentand rhnr any breach of this 111reement by me may result in the Central Intellisence Agericy taking admin• 
istrati've-"action aplnsi me, which can include temporary ldss of pay or termination of my employment or other service with 
the Central Intelligence Agency. I also understand that If I violate the terms of thii agreement, the United States Oovemment 
may insdtute a civil proceeding to seek compensatory d1ma1es or other appropriate re_lief. Further, I understand that the 
di.telosure of information that I have agreed herein not to disclose can, ln some circumstances, constitute a criminal offense. 
11. r undemand that the United States Government may, prior to any ,unauthorized disclosure t¥t is lhreatened by me, 
choose to apply to any appropriate coun for an order enforcin1 this agreement. Nothing in this agreement constitutes a waiver . 
on the pan of the United States to insrirute a civil or criminal proceeding for any breach of this agreement by me. Nothing in 
this agreement constiwtes a wavier on my part of any possibl~ defenses I may have in connection w:ith either civil or criminal 
proceedin11 that may be broupt a1alnst me. 
12. In addition to any other remedy to which the United States Government may become entitled, I hereby assi,n to the 
United Stace. Government all rights, title, and interest in any and all royalde&, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted 
or will result or may result from any dlvulgence, publication or revelation of infonnation or marerial'by me chat ls carried out 
in bre"h of para,raph 5 of this agreement or that involves infonnadon or material prohibited from disclosure by the term1 of 
thi, agreement. 
13. I understand and accept that, unless I am provided a written. release from this agreement or any ponion of lt by the 
Director of Central Intelll1ence,or the Director's represenradve, all the conditions ,and obligation1 accepted by me in this agree• 
ment apply both during my employment or other service wirh the Central Intelligence Agency,_ and at all times thereafter. . 
14. I understand mat the purpose of this agreement is to implement the rcsponsibllides of the Director of Central Intel· 
ligence, putlcularly the responsiblllty to protect lntell1gence sources and methods, as specified in the National Security Act of 
1947, as amended. 
15. These restrictions are consistent wirh and do not supersede conflict with or otherwise alter the employee obligations_ 
righu or liabilities creared by Executive Order 12356; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code (1ovemin1 disclosures 10 
Conil'ess): section 1034 of title IO, United States Code, u amended by the Military Whistlcblower Protection Act (Sovemlng 
disclosure to Congreas by members of the Military): section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United Stares Code, as amended by the 
Whistleblower Protecdon Act (governing disclosures of illegality, wure, fraud. abuse or public health or safety threats); the 
Intelligence Identities Protecdon Act of 1982 (50 U.S,C., 421 tr stq.) (govemina disclosures that could expose confidential 
Government qents), 111d tM statutes. which protect against disclosure that may c:omprom~ me national sec:uriry, includine 
section 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the Subvenive Acdvides Act of 1950 
(50 U.S.C. section 783(1,)). The definitions, requirement&, obligations, rights, sanctions and liabllides created by said Execudve 
Order 111d listed statutes are incorporated into this Agreement and are controlling. 
16. I understand that nothln1 in this agreement limits or otherwise affects any provision of criminal or other law that 
may be applicable to the unauthorized disclosure of classified informmion, including the espionage laws (sections 793, 794 and 
798 of Tide 18, United States Code) and the Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (P;L. 97-200; 50 U.S.C .. 421 ,r 
stq.). 
17. Each of the numbered parasraphs and lettered subpara,raphs of this agreement is sever;able. If a court should fi11d 
any of the paragraphs or subpamgraphs of this a1reemenc to be unenforceable. I understand that all remaining provisions will 
continue in full force. 
18. I make this aareement in good faith, and with no purpose of evasion. 
19. This a,n:ement shall be interpreted under and in conformance with the law of rhe United States. • 
Slgnnrurc 
Date 
The execution of this asreement was witnessed by the undersigned; who accepted it on behalf of the Central Intelligence 
Agency as a prior c.ondltion of the employment or other service of the person whose slpiture appears above. 
WITNESS AND ACCEPTANCE: 
Slsnaturc '·,.~· .... 
-.................... . 
Printed Name 
