r-
( ..... 
I, • 
( 
_( 
.ION 87. SECURITY INVES~~GATI. 87F 
F. ADMINISTRATIVE INDEX 
1. Purpose and general policy 
a. To have a readily available and up-to-date listing of individuals who. 
are deemed dangerous to the internal security, especially in the 
event of a national emergency. 
b. The Administrative Index (referred to as ADEX) includes the names 
and identifying data concerning individuals who fall within four 
categories of dangerousness described below. _ 
c. Under no circumstances should individuals be included in ADEX, or 
otherwise be the subject of investigative attention, merely because 
of their opposition to Government policies or because of th~ exercise· 
of their constitutional rights of protest and dissento The ADEX 
is intended, and should be utilized, solely to list individuals who 
constitute a potential or actual threat to the internal security of 
the United States and/or whose activities and statements indicate that 
they would resort to violent, illegal, or subversive means.· 
d. Matters.relating to the ADEX are not to be included in reports or . 
LHMs prepared for dissemination outside the Bureau. If field office 
believes that special circumstances justify discussion of ADEX with 
qualified representatives of other Federal agencies on s·trictly 
confidential basis, furnish full facts to Bureau and request prior 
approval for such action. 
-e. Contents of ADEX must be accurate and correct at all times. Matters 
relating to its maintenance should be given preferred attention. 
2. Categories 
a. Category I 
(1) All national leaders of revolutionary organizations whose aims 
and purposes include the overthrow and destructio·n of the 
Government by force and violence or other unconstitutional .means,. 
and individuals affiliated therewith who have demonstrated 
propensity for violence against the person rather than property 
or have received special training in sabotage, espionage, • 
guerrilla warfare, or have engaged in underground-type operations. 
(2) Revolutionaries, though unaffiliated with any specific • 
organization, who have demonstrated by acts or statements a 
propensity for violence, including acts of terrorism, assassination, 
or any interference with or threat to the survival and effective 
operation of national, state, and local Governments and of the 
defense efforts. 
(3) National leaders of extremist organizations. 
(4) Any individual who qualifies for the ADEX should be included in 
Category I if he is -employed. in or has.access to a key facility .. 
b. Category II 
(1) Secondary leadership of revolutionary and extremist organizations. 
Secondary leadership would comprise, for example, regional, state, 
and local leaders who are involved in policy making in fulfilling 
anti-U. S. objectives of their respective revolutionary organizations 
and whose activities do not justify their ·inclusion in Category I. 
(2) Active participants in furthering the aims and purposes of the 
revolutionary or extremist organization with which affiliated. 
(3) Other unaffiliated revolutionaries or extremists who have demon­
strated by acts or statements a propensity for violence against 
property rather than persons .• 
c. Category III 
(1) Rank-and-file membership in, or participation in activities of, 
revolutionary organizations within the last five years as evidenced 
by overt acts or statements established .through reliable sourc_es, 
informants, or individuals. 
31 
4-13-72 
NW 38321 ·Docld:32989529 Page 1931 
I • I 
I 
i 
! 
l • I 
\ . ! 
j 
i 
j 
l 
i 
