------ -
C 
. ...._ 
1 
l L... .. 
January 15, 1960 
INDUSTRIAL SECURITY PROGRAM 
Following the Supreme Court decision in the Greene 
case. on'June 29, 1959, prolonged efforts to prepare a 
Presidential Directive to establish a program under which 
I
. private contractors may be granted access to classified data 
have culminated in a draft Order dated Janua_ry 7, 1960. 
Budget is circulating this draft to all interested agencies. 
The more recent Bureau comments concerning this matter were 
forwarded by memorandum to AAG Yeagley, December 30, 1959; 
by memorandum to the Attorney General, with copies to • 
Messrs. Walsh and Yeagley, January 6, 1960; by memorandum, 
January 11, 1960, to Mr. Yeagley; and by memorandum of 
January 14, 1960, to Assistant Attorney General Kramer, with 
copy to Mr. Yeagley. The last two of· the-se communications 
both concerned the same draft which is ~ow being circulated 
by Budget. 
In brief, we have noted that under the proposed Order 
agencies may consider all of the pertinent information available 
regardless of source. Under Section 4 A 1 protection is 
afforded to regular conj'idential in.formants. Under Section 4 A 2 
information from persons other than current informants may be 
considered if they cannot appear due to death, severe illness, 
or some such other good and su.fficient cause. It is apparent 
that information from casual in.formants who refuse to testify 
cannot be used under this section. 
-1 Section 5 B, according to Mr. Yeagley, would allow 
use of data from wire taps, microphones, and other sensitive 
techniques. Mr. Yeagley has indicated, however, that such 
data would h~ve to be produced in the form of actual quotations 
from the conversations rather than the paraphfased form in 
which we disseminate this information. we-r believe it will not 
be possible for us to furnish other than paraphrased information 
in most instances because of the absolute necessity of protecting 
our source~ . 
• Even though data from casual informants and sensitive 
techniques may not be used as indicated above, Section 9 of the 
Order grants and affirms the department head concerned authority 
