N 
-RE: MICHAEL HALSEY BROWN 
1 
APPENDIX 
AMERICAN NAZI PARTY OF THE WORLD UNION 
OF FREE ENTEHJ?RISE NATIONA~ SOCIALISTS, 
ALSO KNO'EN AS THE GEORGE LINCOLN RGCIG'lELL PARTY 
\In his book, This Time The World, copyrighted in 1961, 
George Lincoln Rockwell identiiied hifuself as Commander, American 
Nazi Party of the World Union of Free Enterprise National 
Socialists (ANP - WUFENS), Arlington, Virginia. 
The April 4, 1963 issue of "The Richmond News Leader," 
a Richmond, Virginia daily newspaper, reported that George 
Lincoln Rockwell had, on the previous day, again applied for 
the .American Nazi Farty to be chartered in the State of 
Virginia, but this request was turned down by the Virginia 
State Corporation Commission. This action was taken pursuan,t . • • ·~ ,._ 
to an act of the 1S62 Virginia Assembly which prohibit$ use. of-,-~~' 1 ·_.--~~ 
"lfazi" or nua tional Socia.lism" in a, Virginia charter. This 
article ;furthe1" pointed out that Rockwell's party is presently 
chartered in the State of Virginia as the George Lincol~ 
Rockwell Party. ~ • 
On August 14, 1964, a source advised that the ANP -
·WUFENS was organized by George Lincoln Rockwell at his 
residence in Arlington, Virginia, on February 25, 1959, as an 
international "National Socialist" movement based on- the German 
Nazi Party headeo by Adolf Hitler. He added:· \th.Ei-t Ro"C!'kwell is 
the ·dominant force and personality"-·i11 this 'party; thaf.··hf .i~ .: .. : 
espousing a "line" of hatred against the Jews and Negroes;. , 
and that he is seeking, through speeches, distribution of 
literature and picketing, to establish a cohesive and dominant 
politicai party in the United States and in foreign countries. 
According to the 0 Stormtrooper's Manual," an official 
publication of the .A.NP, the phases of ANP struggle for power 
are fourfold, namely, first "to make ourselves known to the 
masses;" second 11 the dissemination of our program and the 
truth about -the Party; tt third norganizing the peop).e who have 
been cont1erted to oui .. propaganda;" and fourth "the attainment 
.of power through the .votes of the newly-won masses." 
On February 17, 1964, I~rl Rogers Allen, Jr., former 
Deputy National Commander of the ANP, ad·vised that George 
Lincoln Rockwell believes he has completed the first two phases 
in his struggle :for power and is now well into the third phase. 
Allen said, however, in his bpinion, Rcckwell has only completed 
phase one. 
6 
I 
l: 
I 
I l ' I 
I 
I I 1 -, 
.I 
lj 
