NW 38296 
... 
• • Department of State 
Technical graphics guidance on developing a new United 
States Pas sport, analyses of foreign pas sports, car-a·rmoring 
and personnel locators (beacons) for Ambassadors have been 
supplied the State Department .. In addition analys~s ~nd 
exposure of black letter operations against the United States 
abroad are made. All graphics requireIT!,ents are· fonvarded 
to TSD for further coordination within the Division. The 
Department of State furnishes exemplars of foreign passports, 
:foreign visas .andin.J--.cr-ast passports on a: priority basis. 
Postal Service 
The Office of Chief Postal Inspector has had selected 
personnel attend basic surveillance photographic courses, has 
been furnished foreign postal information and has been the ( 
recipient of letter 1;,omb analyses, furnished special fluorescent 
ink, typewriter analyses. Requirements are coordinated \vith 
the DDO and DDO /EA. The Post Office has furnished TSD 
with exemplars of letter bombs and mail insertion capabilities 
:for CA material destined for foreign countries. We also have 
an arrangement with the Post Office to examine and reinsert . , 
a low volmne of certain foreign n1ail arriving in the United States. 
Secret Service 
Gate passes, security passes, passes for Presidential 
campaign, emblems for Presidential vehicles; a secure ID 
photo system have been furnished this Service. Blanket approval 
I 
for graphics support has been granted to the Deputy Director for 
Operations. In each case TSD requests approval from the DDO. 
U. S. Agency for International Develoument 
We furnish instructors to a USAID-sponsored Technical 
Investigation Course (Counter Terr.or) at Los Fresnos Border 
·Patrol Academy, Los Fresnos, Texas. Instruct ors are under 
Departn1ent of the Army cover and the funding of our participation 
is under an approval of a CI-Police Group project. Courses are 
given Spring and Fall each year. Ins"truction is given at the 
2 -
~·? ~ .~ :,~ {~ 
81 
. ' I· _;,:." .:.:... .. .. 
