S:E. 
• 
87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIO, 
(j) During the first contact, the interviewing Agent 
will introduce himself as a Special Agent of the 
FBI by use of credentials or badge and will open 
the conversation by using ~n appropriate pretext 
or by reciting the Buriau•s responsibilities in 
the security field and asking the subject whether 
he can be of assistance to the Government. If the 
individual has· been a member of a basic revolutionary 
organization and indicates he might cooperate, he • 
may be questioned during the iµitial contact about 
his own activities in order to further ascertain 
the extent to which he will cooperate. This 
original interview is for the sole purpose of 
allowing the Agent to determine whether the 
individual being interviewed might be cooperative. 
~e) Prior Bureau authority 
I. Subjects of active current inYestiga.tions where no·. 
~:---:2:,:.--.-:--·~::::'T_:.;r-:::-: :=-::--~~;.,: ::;-:-···~~:.--"-•·--·c:.: ·in tervicn,.. wi tli- prior. Bureau authority has previously 
.. •• been conducted 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
.II. Closod cases where the subject is on the securitj 
III. 
iudex and no pri6r interview has been conducted 
~bjeoto of investigations requested by the Bureau, 
both open and closed, such as applicant-type cases, 
1-oyalty oases, eto. • . 
• ·.IV •. July persons where circumstances indicate a delicat'e 
::·. • · • • situe:tion exists ::i.nd. a· greater ·tlian· usual risk is • • 
· ·. involved, suoh as individuals· employed in the 
newspaper field, educational field, radio and 
television industry, religious field, publishing 
houses, labor leaders, and the like. Bureau authority 
must be requested with respect to situations of this 
kind even though prior interviews have been had with 
these interviewees. 
V. Security subjects who have. publicly disclosed previous 
oontaota ~ • .. • 
VI. S,lbjects of section .A reserve index cards 
In any of the above cases, no report need be submitted when 
req\tcsting Bureau authority to interview a subject of a 
secu,rity investigation except those persons· under IV above. 
This does not relieve you of the' responsibility of submit­
ting re1lorts in security cases when due; e.g., ::i.nnual 
repo1•ts i11 routine .security index cases and. six-month r.e-
ports in key figure oar.es. • 
VII. The request for Bureau authority for the interview 
should' be set forth in the first paragraph of the letter 
and unless you are recommending a special maimer or 
procedu+'e for conclncting the int~rview, the first 
paragraph should contain the f ol~o1vi ng ;,.ptatements :· 
. . 
11.Bureau authority is requested to interview subject in 
accordance with extsting instructi6ns relating to 
interviews of security subjects. If this su1;dect is 
cooperative·, no affh-m:.,,tive steps will be taken during 
the initial inter,rie1·; to direct his activities and 
.· complete background invest:5.~at.ion required lly sect.ion 
107C of -che l'fanua.l of Instru.ctions (will be] oonctuctecl 
and BureBu will be requested to authorize r3contact 
with subject as a PSI.tt 
[Form FD-336 contains the above statement and may be 
uoed in requesting Bureau authori~y for the inter­
view.] 
The above statement in no way precludes interviewing 
Agents during initial contacts and recoutti.ct s from 
obtaining ~11 subvcrsi7e information subject is willi~~ 
to furnish or other dnta which will assist in det.ermin:.: 
ing his potentialities as an informant. 
NW 38321 Docld;32989529 Page 846 
39 
4-18-61 
