13-00000 
___,....,,-- -
......... .&.-.J.v I.."'\.\ -V- ,~ ... v1v, 
( 
HENRY F. GRAFF 
Professor Emeritus of History. Columbia University 
Born in Neu York City on Auqust 11, 1921, he was educaLed in 
the public schools, inclµding City College, where he received a 
B. s. s. degree, JI1agna cum laude in 1941, and was e.lected. to Phi 
Beta K.lppa. In 1942, he received the M.A. degree from Columbia 
University, and in 1949 the Ph.D. He, meanwhile, hnd.enlisted in 
the Army shortly after Pearl Harbor, and rose from private.to 
first lieutenant in the Signal Corps before going on inactive.,. 
status in the early part of 1946. Ills principal service, was a~ a 
Japanese language officer with the Army Security Agancy (prede­
cnssor of the National Security Agency) ~hich was charged with 
responsibility for reading foreign codes and ciphers. He 
received a War Oepartm~nt Citation and the Anny Comme~dation 
Medal. .;-,,- >; 
' ' - .... j .:., 
Upon returning to civilian life, Graff taught for a semester 
in the History Department of City College before acce-pting an 
appointment as lecturer at Columbia in the fall of 1946. Ho 
remained aL CQlum.bia thereafter unti'I he retired in 1991, rising 
through the ranks to·Professor and Chairman of the Dep.srLment of 
History in 1961. (His term as Chairman ran to 1964.) He has 
been a. visiting prof~ssor at·vassar Coll~ge, and he has lectured 
on many campuses, including those of the service academies. He 
has been the Distinguished Speaker at the· United States Air Force 
Academy, and the Sol Fcinstone Memorial Lecturer nt the Jewish 
1'heologic.:il Seminary.. In 1992 he was the Dean's Distinguished 
Lecturer in the Humanilles at Colllllibia 1 s·· college of Physicians 
and surgeons. In 1993 he lectured at. lhe Y~le Schbol bf M~di­
cine. • 
Graff's tield of specialization is United States history, 
and within it, the hist.ory of the Presidency of the United S~aLc~ 
and Lhe history of UaP. foreign relations of the United $tates. 
lie tauqht courses in bot.h subjects at Columbia ~here he was .1 
Wf!ruber of the facul tic:,; of Columbia Col lcge, the Grr,rlnat"i:1 School 
of Arts and Sciences and the School of International and•Public 
Affairs. ,,, 
Graff served for six years on the National Historicc:Sl 
Publications Commission (1965-71), tovhich he had been appointed 
and then reappointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson. lleginning 
in 1971 he served for a .nutn.ber of. years on the Historical 
Advisory Committee of the Unit.eci States Air Force, by appointroent 
of the Secretriry of the Air Force. In 19q3 he was nominated by 
!:'resident Willi~m J. Clinton for membership on the newly-es­
tablished Assassindtion ~ecords Re~iew Board. 
Graff's books include Bluejackets with Perry .i.n Japan,·­
published by the Neu York Public Library, and 'l'/Je Modern Resear­
cher (with Jacques Barzun) first published by Harcourt Brace in' 
19~7 and now in iL~ Fifth Edition (1992), the text edition 
curc-ently jss11ed by Harcourt and the trade edition by Houghton 
"C.JVU 111 
