:,1 
' 
' ''. 
I 
7 ~ Oswald,· New Orleans, darrison Case • • 
Rocca said that the di[tR and A stay~d on top of· the Garrison case 
and "summarize.d overt developments. 
11 
Rocca identified the analyst 
for the Garrison material as· Donald Pratt. Rocca said that by NSA 
intercepts and associated relationships, the CIA believed Garrison 
was operating· (unwittingly) .under KGB manipulation. (Rocca briefly 
described Soviet technique o·f misinformation. He recalled an inter­
view that Drew Pearson had with Kruschev in Cairo in 1964 or 1965. 
Kruschev told Pearson that h:is '~gut feeling" was that American ri 7ht­
wing extremists and capitali!sts were responsible for thePreside.nt s 
assassination. Rocca. said t:his typified KGB disinformation.) 
Rocca characterized Oreste Pena's allegations as "absolute 
fabrication." Rocca said CIA files revealed that Clay Shaw was a 
contact of the DCDuntil 1956. 
Rocca said that he was; never informed in. 1962. or 1963 about 
a ·revolut,.i.onary training camp around Lake Pontchartrain. He believes 
that the GIA did not know of,. its existence. Rocca said there is evi­
dence that messages from the' Lake Pontchartrain camp were going to a 
drop in Mexico City. • 
8. GPFLOOR Period 
.. GPFLOOR was the crypt :used to. describe the investigation con- . 
ducted by CIA following the ~resident's assassination (ll/23~1/12-15/63.) 
The Mexico City aspect of GPIFLOOR was controlled by WH: J. C. King, 
Chief; Jack Whiten, Desk Chief, and Win Scott, ·COS, Mexico City. Rocca 
said that Whiten would reporlt Mexico City developments to Helms who 
would then inform McCone. • 
9. End of. GP FLOOR: • Warren Commission 
With the formation of :the Warren Commission, the GPFLOOR period 
ended. Rocca explained that Helms served as the major liaison between 
the CIA and WC. Rocca serv~d as chief· of research for matters of in­
teres.t to the WC -- mostly concerning Oswald's defection to Russia. 
Rocca' s staff included: Thomas Hall, Arthur Dooley and Paul Hartman. 
Hall.conducted research on Soviet service in DDO. Dooley followed all 
Bureau developments forwarded to CIA. Hartman was responsible for ex­
ploration of overt references and Soviet service. 
11 
.Additionally,. Hartman 
researched DeMohrenschildt' s relationship to• the Oswalds. 
Rocca reported his research staff's findings to Angleton; Rocca· 
had no contact with Helms. !Rocca explained that he had some liaison 
with Slawson of the WC staff. Rocca said that ·any negotiation between 
the CIA and WC was conducted by Helms, Dulles, and Rankin'. Rocca said 
he had no knowledge of any CIA assassination attempts against Castro. 
. Rocca emphasized that the FBI was .!:_he investigative arm for the 
Warren Commission. Rocca. said that Sam Papich, Dick O'Niell (sic) and· 
Jim Hunt were the Bureau personnel invol,ved with the WC. 
NW .5Q.95.5 Docld: 32423630 Page 577 
·I 
,:i ·, 
