107N SECTION 107 ._ECURITY INFORYL4.NTS .AND CONFID.TAL SOURCES 
4. Four-month evaluation of informants not paid on Bureau authority 
If the informant is not being paia on Bureau authorization, a communi­
cation must be transmitted to the Bureau every four months after the 
date of designation containing the ~ame information set out above in 
subsection 3b except those items concerning payments. Recommendation 
of SAC regarding continuance of informant should also be set forth(UACB.1 
In espionage and foreign nationality cases comment is necessary regarding 
only those applicable items in subsection 3b. 
_ 5. - Receipts 
When payments are made to anyone for information or assistance on security 
matters, either on the SAC1 s authority or on prior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obtained in every instance in which it is possible to do so. 
a, Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce the receipts in evidence 
during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate to other 
documents or files. 
b, Receipts should clearly showi 
1
1 l Date on which payment was made 
2 Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis 
3 Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for services 
or expenses where these items are pertinent 
(
5
4) Name of Agent making payment 
( ) Signature of person receiving the money 
o. When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to the 
Bureaut they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, leaving a 
margin-of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contact with the Acco fastener punch, The staples should be 
pla~ed in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on the 
receipt will not b~ mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Care must 
be taken that receipts are of such a nature that they clearly show 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary material 
contained in Bufiles, 
6 •. -Income tax returns 
aA Informan·bs who receive compensation for their services to the Bureau 
should be advised that such compensation must be reported as income 
when filing an income tax return, 
b. Since all informants are considered independent contractors, the income 
they reoei-ve from the Bureau is self-employment income but, since the 
Bure.au do es not consider their activity as the carrying on of a trr,d.e 
or business, they may consider dispensing with the filing of a schedule 
C as part of form 1040 if they so desire, 
o. ~~he informant 1 s own personal situation, however, should be taken in'co 
consideration as he may receive income from other sources as an inde­
pendent contractor which would require the deduction of self-employ­
ment tax, regardless of any Bureau income he may receive. 
d. In considering the filing of a tax on self-employment income, such 
a return is based upoµ net earnings from self-employment of $400 
or more. If an informant recei-ves less than $400 from the Bureau 
and has no other self-employment income, this money in any event 
is not subject to the self-employment tax. If the informant re­
ceives $4800 or more from outside employment subject to Social 
Security tax, again the self-employment tax requirements do not 
apply. 
e. Bureau income should be set forth und~r item 10 on page one of the 
Federal income tax return, form 1040, a.s "Other Income 11 and explained 
under schedule H(3) on page three of the return as income received 
from other sources for personal services rendered through a private 
enterprise or similar general term applicable to informant's position 
and station in life, 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1511 
20 
5-12-61 
_) 
