13-00000 
.. 
29 March 1963 
MEMORANDUM 
SUBJECT: Unauthorized Cuban Raids 
1. Organizations such as the Second Front of Escambrey, Alpha 66, 
and Lamba 66 are well-known in the Cuban colony in Florida and Puerto 
Rico. Their plans are discussed openly, are picked up by CIA and 
reported almost daily in our CIA bulletins. 
2. There is no doubt that the individuals are in and out of Florida 
and Puerto Rico., The boats, outboard motors, guns, ammunition and 
explosives originate in the United States from legally licensed or 
unlicensed sou'rces (of .which there are many}. We believe that the 
operations are staged out of the Bahamas and other non- U.S. areas. 
3. The operations are skillfully executed by men of obvious 
courage and dedication. Apparently the organizations are building up 
and we can expect more rather than fewer instances in the future. 
, 4. Obviously raids of this type will exascerbate problems with 
Castro and more particularly the Soviet Union and, from that standpoint, 
ar~~esirable. However, successful harrassment will create very 
considerable annoyance, will stimulate internal dissension,. will 
complicate Castro's problems and will have very considerable effect 
in discrediting Castroism in Latin America. Inability of Castro to qeal 
with these raids might cause the Soviets to question the, strength of 
his position and therefore reappraise their own position in Cuba. It is 
impossible to predict the result of such reappraisai. On the one hand 
it might cause them to quest ion their presence in Cuba; on the other 
to reinforce it; and finally, might cause them to open up a discussion 
of their presence with the United States. 
5. Finally, al though it is outside of the competence of the 
Intell~gence Community, it is my personal view that a concerted and 
publicized effort to "stand down" these operations would probably draw 
more public and pres.s criticism in the United States than would result 
from tolerating these acts while officially disassociating the government 
from them through denial of both responsibility and control. 
JOHN A. McCONE 
Director 
