-•." 
Now our goals are within our grips and our armies are beginning 
to activate. A.large segment of the left and the right are no 
longer shooting at each other. Yes, the fear of our enemies 
is now realistic. The bullets of all pro-American revolution­
aries are ~imed at the alien enemies in control and not at 
·each other. Summer is near. Federal Agents .beware. We mean 
business an~ we have the facilities ri0t to be stopped. Your 
laws don't botp.er us; your jails don 1 t .. scare us; and your 
tullets will~be returned with more buliets. Your leaders have 
.bankrupted our people, have starved them, and caused enough 
materialistic havoc that we now have the will of the people 
with us. Even the stupidist in America see through the grain 
shortages, fuel shortages, price gougings, meat shortages, 
work stoppages, and various other criminal corruption by the 
eriemy aliens in control. America's masses are in the corner. 
Now just stand back and watch them come out shooting. When the 
smoke clears, America shall be the victor. 
!. White Power. 11 
"The £allowing portion of this cormnunication will 
be the ·only press release of the New Revolutionary Army. In 
future months, as our movement gains momentUJ.u, I wish for the 
press to understand what we are about rather than what the FBI 
tells them. ThE:re is a brief but somewhc.tt inclusive listing 
of our progr~u included. 
The New Revolutiona1;y Party herewith immediately de­
clares that the present Government of the United States of 
America i~_an illegal. confederation of aliens a.i1d enemies of 
the people of America.. The New Revolutionary P..rmy, its officers 
and followers henceforth secede from the Uni~ed States· of 
America until such time we may be able to restore a Government 
of the people, by the people and for the people and oust the 
enemy aliens now in controi. Through force and violence and 
whatever means available to the NJ.lA, we will tota-lly, forcefully 
and quickly restore sanity to our American republic. We have _ 
adopted the Arnerican Constitutitm in its original form, revised 
!I - 2 -
45 
·-~·-· ·,· .... 
NW 38196 Docld:32989574 Pa e 599 
