• CONFIDENTiiu .. 
Sl.MUEL faDASON JAFFE 
. - Jaffe offered his opinion that Yarochevskaya. may be 
c1onnected with Soviet intelligence. He stated his opinion is 
influenced by the fact that in her 1965 employment as a trans­
lator in Moscow, Ya.rochevsk.aya. had the opportunity of becomtng 
acqua.inted with foreign correspondents assigned to Moscow·. His 
opinion is influenced also by Ya.rochevskaya
1 
~ subsequent· 
ma.rriage to a persona.ble and younger Sovj,et who received an 
assig:n..-nent to the United States as a Ta.ss correspondent. Jaffe 
:stated Yarochevskaya is the only Soviet national whom he knows 
I who was employed by 11UPDK11 as a translator for foreign corres-­
/ pnndents, who later. came to the United States. 
··Jaffe stated that when he served in Moscow he and 
other foreign correspondents often hes.rd references to a "Black 
Tass 11• The ruinors ·were that the Tass News .Agency abroa.d per­
formed two functions. One was to ga.ther news for disse:-nina.tion 
to the Soviet people through Soviet newspapers and periodicals. 
The other, 11Black Tass", ·was a form of intelligence gathering, 
the results of which were never ma.de kno·wn to the Soviet people 
but were furnished directly to the KGB in Moscow for transmittal 
to Kremlin officials. Jaffe stated that an e.."<;:ample of the "Black 
Tass" operation ·would be a Tass correspondent in Washington, D. C. 
fE;eling out his contacts to ascertain wha.t the thinking of gov­
errunent officials might be in regard to some phase of the United 
States' foreign policy. Jaffe said that 11Black Tass" would not 
necessarily rela.te to espionage. 
Jaffe sta.ted the only contact he has had in recent 
months with Soviet ~ationals occurred approximately in the end 
of January, 1971, exact date unrecalled. Jaffe had just stepped 
away from making a. telephone call in the lobby of the Sta.tler 
Hilton Hotel, 16th and K Streets, N. W., Washington, D. C., 
when Oleg M. Sokolov, a. First Secretary, Soviet Embassy, walked 
into view. Sokolov greeted him warmly and a.sked Jaffe where he 
had been keeping himself and why no one had seen him. Jaffe 
replied that he has been in the Washington, D. C. area. but that 
CONFIDENTIPL 
- 3 .. 
NW 38326 Docld:32989704 Page 185 
' l 
I i 
l, 
I 
I 
' ; . 
i 
i 
I 
l 
I 
