l· 
"Wiley is known to be a CIA employee by numerous 
individuals, such as: the staff of National Review; 
Herbert Romerstein, a close friend of Wiley and a 
former Communist; Lee Pennington, Elsa Bernaut .:i.nd 
Hede Massing; J. B. Matthews and his wife, former 
Communists with whom Wiley is friendly; and by 
• CIA Covert Source He is suspected 
of being a CIA employee by various Cuban refugees 
with whom he became friendly following his incar­
ceration in a Cuban prison. 
"Wiley's firm _was used as a cover for various 
assignments given by SRS to CI~ Covert Source , to 
the extent that WNA press credential~ were in their 
possession until 1964 -CIA Covert So. is knmm to have 
discussed his Agency affiliation and correspondence 
through Wiley with at least sever&l other persons 
and furnished considerable written material relating 
thereto to Congressman Daddario." 
In February 1967, Wildy suggested that in light of the 
then recent disclosures about CIA and youth activities, he be 
actively eng~~ed in ~~n~ ~edi~ ~c:ivi~ic~ designed rn c0~nter­
act the Lad ~ublicity. 
·on 3 March 1967, Cecil Tighe sent a note to Paul Gaynor 
stating that Wiley suggests he be permitted to make overtures 
to the media for personal appearances and articles regarding 
his involvement in the various youth festivals. Tighe said he 
advised Wiley: "Nix - to stay quiet." Tighe asked Gaynor 
whether he concurred. The memo is merely signed: "Noted" by 
Gaynor. 
A blind memorandum dated 7 March 1967 contains the fol­
lowing: 
"During Wiley's employment by OS/Security 
Research Staff, he attended the 7th World Youth 
Festival at Vienna in 1959, and the 8th at Helsinki 
in 1962, following Hhich he furnished detailed in­
formation to this Agency, as well as to FBI, HCUA, 
etc; He also made trips to Cuba in an attempt to 
secure details relating to a matter of sensitive 
interest to DDP, and on the second trip in 1960 was 
confined for eight days by the Cuban authorities 
. t(Jiv\ 
-91-
(-.r-r.n,--
• • i., -· • 
NW 50955 Docid:32203889 Page 79 
