~ 
f [ 
Ir 
I[ 
le 
( 
SECTIO:H 107. SECURITY INI!'ORI1AHTS(AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES J 1U7A - B 
DEFINITIOl'TS 
• ..I 
1. Security informant 
Individual actively engaged in obtaining and furnishing current infor­
mation on security matters exclusiyely for Bureau and whose identity 
must be protected. Such person should be a member or attend meetings 
of a subversive organization, such as the Communis·!; Party; or be in 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or espionage 
~ctivities or intelligence activities in the u. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal. that he is able to obtain and does provide current infor­
mation.of value. 
2. Potential security informant 
Individual in a position to become active in a subversive orgRnlzation 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be 
in~ position actively to obtain and furnish current information to 
Bureau. - .. 
[3. Double agent 
A specialized type of security informant; a person who is cooperating 
with, receiving assignments from, and performing tasks for both a foreign 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the Bureau's guidance. 
4. Confidential source 
l~n individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information aYailable 
to him through his present position. Examples would be; pankers, telephone 
company employees, American employees of foreign official establishments, 
employee_s of the United- nations Secretariat, and individuals who fu,.rnish 
trash in connection with trash covers, These indiYiduals make no 
concerted effort on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtgin and furnish 
information readily available to them.] 
[B. SOURCES OF POTENTIAL [ SECURITY] HfFORMANTS 
In.formants should be developed on all organizations and individuals which 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown that potential 
infbrmants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal investi­
gatiYe c?.oti-rity. Li·re informant coverage depends for the most p.i.rt upon 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs. For assistance 
in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested: 
1. E,aluation of 
a. Complainants in security matters 
b. Persons interviewed in connection with security cases 
c. Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation of pa.r·l;y loyalty 
d. Bureau applicants as possible informants 
e. Person~.l friends and cont ... cts of Special Agents and other Bureau. 
emplo.yees 
f. • Sources of ini'ormaJGion, confidential s ourccs, and contacts on con-
tinu.01.,s basis 
2. Review of closed security files on individuals. 
3, Review of ()Om1n-..i.nist indez 
-4 •. .1.scertai:u possiuilitjcs of reaoti,rating fo1~mer confidt>ntial informants. 
5. Survey po:3sibilities of trash covers. 
6. Review f;.-,c•!;io::.12.li:nn section of file on Communist Party, US.A. 
7. Consultation with ,resent informants regarding indications of disaffection 
··on the part of Communist Party members. They, of course, should not be 
infor:nec1 ~.s to -the purpose of the inquiry. 
8. Review of files on communist front organizations looking for individuals 
who have been ~.ssociated w:U;h only.one or two fronts or who attended only 
, a few meetings of a front. Such individuals frequently are innocent of 
communist propensi ·l;ies, yet they ha.Ye a b~~sis :t'or cu.l ti vating the 
acquain"tance of parJ.;y members. The !_lrogressi ve Party file also might 
prove a fertile field, 
3 
2-12-60 r··:1 
NW 38321 Docld:32900529 P.age 13'75 - ' 
. ! 
