. ' .• 
/ 
CHINESE COMMUNIST INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES 
Communist China today has no diplomatic establishment in 
the United States and its major intelligence efforts directed 
against ~his country emanate· from two major sources,{1,he United Nations 
and the New China News Agency office in Ottawa,_ Canad~ 
We have identified two ethnic Chinese employees of the 
United Nations Secretariat in New York as Chinese communist intelli­
gence agents. Qhe first, Paul You, is a Senior Interpreter engaged 
in collecting sensitive United Nations documents which are transmitted 
to Coytlffiunist China through an accommodation address in Switzerland. 
FAN Chia-ching, also employed as Interpreter at United Nations, has 
been in close contact with the Chinese Communist Consulate in 
Geneva, Switzerland, and during recent months with a member of the 
U.S. military who has a "Top Secret" clearance and is knowledgeable 
in the field of ballistic missiles. FAN has been positively identified 
as a Chinese communist intelligence agenO 
LJhrough our liaison with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, 
we have learned that the Chinese communists are building a base in 
Canada for intelligence operations directed against this country. 
The New China News Agency (which is used as an arm of Chinese 
intelligence) in mid 1966 sent an agent to New York City and 
Washington, D. C., with the speci~~ assignment of establishing a 
cover for a resident illegal agen!----J 
. D Bureau informant who has been directed against the 
Chinese comi"llunists since 1964 returned to the United States March 13, 
1967, following a mission to fuainland China in behalf of the FBI. 
This informant rad a series of conferences with Chinese communist 
intelligence officials,. has been recruited to operate in the 
United States in behalf of the Chinese communists, and was furnished 
a clande"stine communications address in Canton, China. We, .. of course, will use this in~ormant to uncover other Chinese communist 
illegal activities in this countr0 
In anticipation of Red China's admission to the United 
Nations~ w~have greatly stepped up our efforts in the past two 
years to build a solid base of quality informants to operate 
against the Chinese communists. 
<lvn/4_. 
~--· 
.. 
1 : .. 
- . I . . . 
