PART II 
SECTION 6a P'{,JBLICATIONS, PRESS, .A.ND PUBLIC CONTACTS" 
d. Ea.oh insert should be filed with the buileti'n to which it rela.-te~ .. 
No indexing of individual notices contained therein is necessa~y. 
4. Each office must submit to the Bureau annually a.t least three suggestions 
for articles, identifying the suggested author 1 and briefly describing 
the nature of the suggested artiol e. The article should not be prepared., 
submitted, o~•entioned to the-suggested author until the Bureau directs 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any general or ·specific sub­
ject of law enforcement interest, including the following: 
ao Better investigative or administrative methods and techniques of 
·any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI National. 
Academy men • 
b. Improved or unusual equipment being used 
o., Complica.ied, unusual, and well-handled oases .which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems and excellent police work 
d., Human interest i terns from loo·al police work 
e. Police and firearms tra~ning subjects 
f • Crime prevention articles from departments which have t-aken aggressive 
action to combat juvenile delinquency 
g~ Transmit-all material to the Bureau under the caption: 
• '. FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin • • 
Research (Crime Records} 
Co SPEECHES • 
1. Bureau ·is to be notified of all speaking engagements. Speaking engage­
ments are to be handled by the SAC. If he c~nnot handle them, the ASAC 
should. If neither can., an Agent previously approved as a speaker is 
to .be designated and the Bure.au advised UACB. Changes in speaking engage­
ments must be 9ommunicated pr.omptly to the Bureau. Three weeks prior to 
any radio or television speech, a manuscript. of the speech must be sub- -
mitted for the. Bureau-'s review and a.pprovalo In some cth-er c~ses involv­
ing important ~peeches not on radio or television, t~e Bureau will 
specifically request such manuscripts. If speech is to be broadcast or 
televised, prior Bureau approval of manuscript and commitment must be 
obtainP.d. These regulations, as well _as all other F~I administrative 
procedures, should not be the subject of comment to the public~ 
2. Copy of Burea~ letter approving speaker should be placed in his field 
personnel file. 
3. Each office is to designate a supervisor.to handle speech material. 
To this supervisor must be routed law·enforcement bulletins, FBI Notes, 
interesting case ~aterial, magazines, research literature, and newspaper 
clippings containing information of value to police instructors and 
approved speakers. This material to be indexed as to subject matter 
and filed in the speech material files. 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-'!JPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting cases may be: 
a. Requested by the ~ureau 
b. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
o. Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning oases of: 
a. Major im~ortance 
b. Public interest 
c. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
d. Novel investigations of human interest 
3. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b. Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
o. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d. Accurately 
e. After a review of the entire file 
f. In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g .. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
'NW 38321 Docld:32989529 343 
2 
9-30-60 
( 
\ 
