' ' 'I 
I 
• I 
: I 
: I 
' I 
'1' 
.. 
February 5, 1960 
UNKNOWN SUBJECTS _ 
BOMBING OF KEHILATH ISRAEL SYNAGOGUE 
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI 
JANUARY 28, 1960 
On January 28, 1960, approximately 10:30 p.m., an 
explosion occurred in the front courtyard of the Kehilath 
Israel Synagogue, 800 East Meyer Boulevard, Kansas City, 
Missouri. Property damage consi~ting of 51 plate-glass 
l 
w~ndows shattered, broken stained glass window and dented 
• door amounting to approximately $5,000. Only occupants of 
synagogue were 1he janitor andhi.s wif~, neither of whom was 
injured., FBI Laboratory examination indicated characteristics 
of a dynamite explosion. Laboratory examiner flown to Kansas 
City to assist in examination of evidence. 
Witnesses observed two automobiles leaving area 
at high rate of speed immediately after explosion. Identifi­
cation made of occupants of automobile. Interviews being 
conducted. Other witnesses saw four youths running from 
vicinity of synagogue immediately after explo.sion. High 
\
school student has made statement that he and another student 
were responsible for the bombing; however, later denied that 
they were involved. Students are being interviewed., 
Approximately one month ago, ~everal thousand blasting caps 
were stolen from company in Kansas City. Half of stolen 
caps recovered by Kansas City police in possession of teen­
agers who are being considered as suspects in bombing. 
Investigation determined a number of high school 
students in Kansas City area recently formed Nazi-type group. 
Members of group identified and interviewed. Two juvenile 
members are prime suspec~s. 
FBI immediately offered these.vices of the 
l 
Laboratory and the Identification Division to local authori1i.es 
and is continuing to actively render every possible assistance 
to them. 
-
A special squad of Special Agents has been formed and 
this case is being afforded intensive investigation by the 
Kansas City Division. 
"'),.. ..... .,_ -~, 
• i',; 
,..t. :._,,, \ ·~. ,.-.... , ·-~·· ,;- ·~ ! • • 
.I 
i 
I 
1. 
I 
- , ___ j 
