. ': 
SECRET. 
-2-
specifically for ship repairs, recruiting and training crewE, locating . 
sites and facilities for future PM activities, strengthening the political 
organization of the V?.D and propaganda. On 30 January Station Caracas 
was author1.zed to infonn BETANCODRT that Headquarters was prepared 
to consider providing anns and equipment to any.bona fide resistance element 
with whom adequate contact can be established. BETANCOURT was to be 
encouraged to recommend any new individuals or groups he considered·useful 
.to further objectives of the project. Station Caracas reported that President 
.BETANCOURT was gratified to receive the above information. 
In Headquarters contact with FCR exiled leaders, they disclosed 
their plan of action which they.felt could be implemented if they were 
provided with arms for JOO men, explosives, and remote control detonation 
devices. ·They also claimed to have a small boat infil-exfil capability. 
On the other hand the VRD, while claiming no internal organization,_claimed 
a sea and.air capability and are the chosen instruments-of President 
BETANCOURT and Jose FIGUERES. 
B. Frente Civica Revolucionatia (FCR) 
(l) We have recentiy been in touch with key exiled leaders of 
the FCR and they have expressed a wiliingness to assemble a small cadre 
in Puerto Rico. It is contemplated that they will develop maritime 
capability, be in touch with their internal counterparts through 
W/T facilities,- and develop plans for implementing the internal group's 
plan of action. In view _of their reluctance to deal directly with the 
ORNES Group (VRD) and in the interests of security we plan to keep 
them compartmented _for the time being. • 
(2) Through our Station in Ciudad 'l'rujillo we are attempting 
to ascertain the details of the FCR's plan of action and develop a stay­
behind coill!llUnication capability. 
C. Vanguardia Revolucionaria Dominicana (VRD) 
(1) We are actively supporting the VFD (the ORNES group) in 
repair1.ng and outfitting their yacht so as to develop an arms delivery 
capability. It i~ estimated that it will take from 45 to 60 days to complete 
this work . .Additional time may be needed to. recruit and train a crew. • 
. (2) Support is also being given to the VRD1 s propaganda and 
organizational activities. A program is being developed with the hope that 
the VRD can develop their own contacts.and sources of information within 
the Dominican Republic. 
D. Possibility of Developing a Boycott Capability 
(1) Du.ring the summer of 1960 WH Division made use of Fernando 
MUNIZ Silva, Dominican exile in Puerto Rico and at the time head of the 
SECRET· 
_':• - - - - - - - - - - -
2c..... 
