13-00000 
SECRET 
had Art Maloney as head of the PM Branch. Hal Swensen 
as head of the CI.Branch .. These were all very senior 
guys who were well regarded by everyone, and they were 
honest as the day is long, and they wouldn't take any 
horseshit from anybody, and ran a very tight ship. So 
the case officers here at this end, and we had case 
officers working against Cuban targets in from 
Washington, but they never ran across the Cuban case 
officers that Ted was running down in Miami. They each 
knew their fields. They each worked with each other. 
They kept each other informed so they didn't cross each 
others trails. That's something I think we did, I 
think from second nature, but it would have been nice 
to know, in that, from that report, that we were at 
least not doing something that we were wrong in doing, 
or doing something that we shouldn't have done. That 
report makes it clear that we did just the right thing. 
That everybody knew what the hell their piece was. I 
don't know if that's correct. The DDP's rebuttal 
doesn't really face that particular question about the 
case officers and where they looked for their guidance. 
It kind of sloughs it off more or less. To me it made 
no sense for, as I say, for the three senior guys in 
the Mongoose thing not to have seen that report so that 
they could be sure that they weren't making some of the 
same mistakes. McCone, I know, and Cabell, were trying 
to hide the whole thing. Within limits I agree with 
them, but not .... You don't have to put it on the 
bulletin board like they've done now. It's on the 
internet. 
SH: (Conversation in. progress) ..... poisonous pesticide and 
it was available in any hardware store you wanted to go 
to or Sears or what have you, and it was available in 
Havana or other parts of Cuba. It was done all over 
the world and the little bottles that it used to come 
in actually had a skull and crossbones, the old symbol 
for poison. The idea was the needle would be so fine 
that it would be just like a little tiny scratch and if 
AMLASH would get close enough to Fidel to use that to 
scratch him and at the same time have the Black Leaf 40 
enter the bloodstream. How much you have to put in, or 
what have you, I never found out. Never asked. Manny 
Gunn gave all the technical details to Nestor Sanchez 
to pass on to AMLASH. When Nestor offered the ball­
point pen to AMLASH he looked at it very disdainfully, 
and he said when Nestor tried to explain about the 
Black Leaf 40, AMLASH, who was a medical doctor in his 
own right, said "I know all about that. You don't have 
to tell me all about that." He said, "Corne on, you 
fellows can come up with something better than that." 
And as far as I know he never took the pen. Although 
if he had been a double agent I think he would have 
15 
SECRET 
