SECRET 
27 March 1963 
CHILE 
1. There were 551 legal travelers from Chile 
to Cuba in 1962, and another 110 in the first two 
months of 1963. (Anniversary celebrations tend to 
make travel in January higher than the monthly av­
erage.) In addition, field reports show about 400 
illegal travelers in 1962, under a definition which 
lists nationals of one country who obtain their 
Cuban visas in a third country as "illegal." 
2. We have no hard clandestine evidence of 
Chilean guerrilla trainees. A defecting Cuban army 
lieutenant has told reporters that a base he com­
manded gave 19 Chileans guerrilla training in late 
1961. Since neither travel to Cuba nor the large 1 
Communist party is illegal in Chile, a Chilean na­
tional has little reason, other than the intention 
to take subversive training, to conceal travel to 
Cuba. On this basis it would appear to be a safe 
assumption that more than half of the illegal trav­
elers probably received military or political in­
doctrination. 
3. The only known arrests in the past 15 months 
for subversive activity took place in October 1962, 
when five members of the Progressive Socialist Move­
ment (MSP) were arrested following an explosion while 
they were assembling bombs in a downtown Santiago 
apartment. Four of the five were released after three 
days; the fifth, whose hand had been blown off, was 
given a jail sentence. The bombs were to have been 
used against the U.S. embassy. 
4. Julio Stuardo, leader of the MSP and one 
of those arrested, had traveled to Cuba, but is not 
known to have received any particular training. He 
had been photographed prior to the bombing incidertt 
with Cuban embassy officials believed to be intel­
ligence officers. 
5. There are no Chileans in positions of in­
fluence who are known to have received training in 
Cuba. However leftist Senator Salvador Allende, the 
probable FRAP candidate in the next presidential elec­
tion, bas made numerous visits to Cuba. 
-14-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docid:32283208 Page 18 
