CONFIDENTIAL 
JE.Al'i"NETTE RANKIN BRIGADE 
A sQurce who has furnished ~eliable information 
in the past has advised thnt .lj,'erence Hallinan, the· son of 
Vivian Hallinan:who is a member of the Communist Party, USA, 
Northern District of California, stated in October, 1962, 
~hat his mother,would be.willing to join the Communist Party 
if her husband would. also join.· • 
Mrs. Martin Luthe!' King, Jr., spoke to the assembly 
stating that she was totally opposed to the brutal s.~ugtiar 
in Vietnam and that uomen must use all their power to stop 
that war •.. She described ·present challenges as umi);.ita-rism, 
x-aeism and w.antoniom.-" 
Jeannette Rankin spoke and welcomed thoae attending. 
She stated that their forefathers had '7ritten the- • ·• 
C9nstitution in such a way that the military could not take 
ove~ control of the Government. She stated that the women 
must see tllat tlle military system is destroyed. She demanded 
that women .. have a secret ballot in the al.action as well as .. a. 
c~oice in selecting candidatea.· She concluded her talk by 
~econunending that women everywhere become candidates for 
political offices. 
. Kathorine Camp, the President of the tomen's 
International .League for Peace and Freedom, an international 
women's pacifist .organization, described to the assembly the 
activities of the delegation ·which had presented the petition 
to Speaker McCormack at ths Capitol earlier that day. . . ' ' 
One,.ot the speakez-s, Mrs. J;litchell Goodmo.nt whose 
husband was recan~ly indicted by Federal Grand Jury in• 
connection with counseling of cvaoion of the Saloctive 
Service la.vn.i·1 stat,ed th::it all th3 women nrescnt should : 
encourage their sons to refuse the draft:. 
llra. Dagmar Wilson, National Chnirman 6:f Women· 
Strike for Peace, a national women's pacifist group, told 
the assembly that political action was necessary in order 
to change the United States policy in Vietnam. She stressed 
the need for education along these lines and stated that 
this meeting would be·the beginning of a revolution. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989545 Page 630 
L___. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
- 3 ... 
