[ 
[ 
[ 
87D 
\ 
S ... -N 87. SECURITY INVESTIG.A.Tlt,..~• 
(J) Physical description c.· 
I. Obtain and report a detaile_d physical description. 
II. During t!:ie co,urse of the initial il).vestigation in any· 
aecurity-type case, including espionage and nationalistic 
tendency cases, the physical characteristics· and descrip-
•• tion of the subject shall be determined or verified by 
per~onal observation. It is not necessary to observe 
pen,.,nally th'3 s·ubject of any case wherepreliminary 
inveJtigation determines the basis for opening the 
case is unfounded. 
~III. The subject should be personally observed, if ~ossible, 
early in the investigation after it is determined that 
a complete investigation is warranted to develop the 
extent of a subject's subversive activities and to 
consider whether the subject's name should be added to 
the security index. This action should be taken in the 
course of developing background inf9rmation to determine 
'.the true identity and existence of the subject and to 
assist in establishing that the subject of the investi­
·gation is the person ·against whom the subversive 
allegations have been .made.· Each subject should be 
personally observed whenever a complete security investi­
gation is conducted even though a security index card 
is not being recommended at the completion of the 
investigation. 
IV. Do not delay the submission of form FD-122 recommending 
the addition of a subject's name to.the security index 
even though it has not been possible to observe personally 
the subject if it has been determined through. investigation 
"that the subject is dangerous or potentially dangerous. 
v. If a security index card is not being recommended after 
all logical investigation has been conducted and it has 
not been possible to observe personally the subject during (. 
the investigation, the case may be closed even though , 
this has not been done. If a security index card has 
been recommended and prepared and it has not been possible 
to personally observe the subject, the case shall remain 
open until such time as the subject is personally observed, 
except when it has been determined that the subject ' 
is residing outside the U. s. or Puerto Rico, in whi;h 
event the case may be closed if there is no other 
pending investigation and the matter should be followed 
administratively to be certain that the subject is 
personally observed upon his return to this country. 
{k) Photograph 
I. Reasonable efforts should be made during the investigation 
of a security subject to obtain a photograph of the 
subject through usual sources • 
. IIo Cases on security index subjects are to be maintained 
in a pending status until such time as a suitable 
photograph is obtained unless circumstances dictate 
other,v-ise, in which case the Bureau should be advised. 
Once a photograph has been obtained, continue to be 
alert for the existence of more recent photographs which 
may become available. . 
III. [Forward a copy of photographs of security inde~ sub-. 
jects to the B~reau for dissemination to U. s. Secret 
Service headquarters.] 
( 
NW 38321 Decld:32989529 Page 2043 .•·. 
28 
·.10-14-68 
