• SECRET 
Betsy palmer 
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files - Volumes.I - XVIII 
May 1, 1978 
Volume XIII - March 1964 - April 1964 
1. Memorandum to Acting Chief, Contact Division, dated 6 March 196h 
From: Cincinnati R.A. 
Thru: Chief, Detroit Office 
SUJ3JECT: Castro 'r'JI)e Subversion Likely/Manuela Ray Dangerous Exile Leader 
now in Puerto Rico 
R!!.l''E.tillNCE: CR-64-2 and WH-1694, 
Architect, Nocholas Quintana, residing in Cuba, told the following to a Hr. 
Raphael Katzen, consul ting engineer in U.S. M.a."luelo Ray is in Quintana's 
opinion more dangerous to U.S. than Castro. Ray is not a Soviet type 
Communist according to Quintana, but his socialism is so extreme and his 
anti-U.S. feelings so deep that he considers Ray a dangerous e:t.'ile leader, 
at least to the U.S. 
Manuela Ray is knmm to be of interest to the local FBI (Cincinnati). 
2. Memorandum for the Record, dated 16 March 1964 
From: Sidney P. Di Ubaldo 
Subject: Contact Report, Meeting with E...rnesto Betancourt 
Betancourt has known Ray for several years and admired him through all various 
seasons of their relationship. Betancourt impressed with Ray's organizational 
talents--and talents as an engineer.. Says Ray an effective and judicious 
personality and appeals to Cuban exiles of various stripes. Betancourt 
expressed a fear that Ray, in his zeal, might commit himself to such tight 
timing that he would be forced to undertake action at a disadvantageous 
moment. 
Di Ubaldo comments that if Betancourt was leading him on in an atterapt to 
sell Ray to him, it was done with a "subtlety to which I a,.va definitely not 
accustomed". 
3. Cable to DIR from JM\-lAVE, dtd 17 March 1964, Cisneros told .f'JJ~AUP/2 
that CIA had ordered -personnel of .AMWORLD (Artime' s group) boats to fire on 
JURE boat3 and therefore Cisneros had instructed his crewmen to fire on 
AHHORLD boats whe:rever encountered, UTi: 1-')/;V~ JL-'l f 
Cisneros had meeting at his home on 15 March, attended by _A,..~ndo Alanis 
Angulo, Dunney Perez ,'\la;no, Jose Puente Blanco, National Chief JURE youth 
and membe::-of ,JUJE national E:,::ecuti ve, and M-'TAill? /2. Cisneros related that 
Tio::nulo Betancour-t told Say in Caracas that Betancourt will work in favor of 
.JUF.E. Puente oon:f"irmed this. Betancourt promised to arrange urgent meeting 
vlt:1 U.S. officials in Hashington to get promise from them that CIA would 
not sabotage an..Y of JDRE's planned O?erations. 
SECRET 
