~ 
-
... ----------... -: ·_ ~-•. : 
. . 
(Commission Exhibits Nos. 868 and 869 were marked for identification and 
received in evidence.) l 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. McCone, if I may return to you, I will now ask you if you • 
ha,~e any credible information that you kn_ow of _or e,·idence _causing ~ou ~o 
believe that there is any or was any conspiracy either domestic or foreign m 
connection with the assassination of President Kennedy? • , 
Mr. McCONE. No; I have no information, Mr. Rankin, that would lead me to 
believe or conclude that a conspiracy existed. 
Representative FORD. Did the CIA make an investigation of this aspect of 
the assassination? 
Mr. McCoNE. We made an investigation of all developments after the assas­
sination which came to our attention which might possibly have indicated 
a conspiracy, and we determined after these investigations, which were 
made promptly and immediately, that we had no evidence to support such an 
assumption. 
Representative FORD. Did the Central Intelligence Agency have any contact 
with Oswald during the period of his life in the Soviet Union? 
Mr. McCONE. No;· not to my knowledge, nor to the knowledge of those who 
would have been in a position to have made such contact, nor according to any 
record we have. 
Representative FORD. Did the Central Intelligence Agency have any personal 
contact·with.Oswald subsequent to his return to the United States? 
Mr. McCONE. No. • • 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. McCone, your Agency made a particular investigation in 
connection with any allegations about a conspiracy involving the Soviet Union 
or people connected with Cuba, did you not? 
Mr. McCoNE. Yes, we did. We made a thorough, a vecy thorough, investigation 
of information that came to us concerning an alleged trip that Oswald made to 
Mexico City during which time he made contact with the Cuban .Embassy in 
Mexico City in an attempt to gain transit privileges from Mexico City to the 
Soviet Union via Havana. We investigated that thoroughly. 
Mr. RANKIN. Do you also include in your statement that you found no 
evidence of conspiracy in all 9f that investigation? • 
Mr. McCoNE. That is correct. 
Mr. RAN~IN. And also the investigation you made of the period that Lee 
Harvey Oswald was in the Soviet Union? 
Mr. MoCoNE. That is right. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. McCone,--
Mr. DULLES. Could I ask one question there? Does your answer, Mr. McCone, 
include a negation of any belief that Oswald was working for or on behalf of 
the Soviet Union at any time when you were in contact with.him or knew about 
his activities? 
Mr. McCONE. As I have already stated, we were never in contaet with Oswald. 
We have no evidence that he was working for or on behalf of the Soviet. Union 
at any time. According to his diary, Oswald did receive a subsidy from the 
Soviet Red Cross which we assume had the approval of the authorities. Such 
a payment does not indicate to us that he even worked for the Soviet intelli­
gence services. Furth·ermore, we have no other evidence that he ever worked 
for Soviet inteliigeO:ce. 
Representative FORD. Is the Central Intelligence Agency C01Dtinuing any 
investigation into this area? 
Mr. McCONE. No, because, at the present time, we have no information in our 
files that we have not exhaustively investigated and disposed of to our satis­
faction. Naturally, any new information that might come into our hands 
would be investigated promptly. 
Mr. HELMS. I simply wanted to add that we obviously are interested in any­
thing we can pick up applying to this case, and anything we get will be immedi­
ately sent to the Commission, so that we haven't stopped our inquiries or the 
picking up of any information we can from people who might have it. This is 
on a continuing basis. 
Representath·e FORD. In other words, the case isn't closed . 
Mr. HELMS. It is not closed as far as we are concerned. 
123 
