l1, 
'I' 
--
SD 157-2815 
,> '· 
mail drop for the Phoenix group would be the address of 
HOWARD FRANCIS' CLARK 1080 6th Street, Ramona, California, 
.t.•~~-·rormer-membe'r -ol'' tile MM organization. 
\ En route to the gun show, ~ ANDERSON's automobile 
had broken do,m some.place in the State of Nevada and it had 
been necessary for him to hire transportation from there to 
the gun sh(?W. After the gun show, DAVIS drove to Las Vegas, 
Nevada, accompanied by ANDERSON, to make contact with people 
known to him regarding the SAO. 
• It was reported that DAVIS, who is part American 
Indian had abandoned the idea of joining the NSWPP when he 
learned in late September, 1971, that the NSWPP is adamantly 
opposed to persons.having American Indian blood, considering 
them to be of an inferior race. It was felt that this fact -
was responsible for DAVISi decision 'to finally go ahead 
and organize the SAO. 
t 
• It was also reported that, in addition to the 
letterhead stationery and application forms, several thousand 
copies of_ the history leaflet and the first bulletin had also 
been printed at the same time as well as a number of stickers 
advertising for the SAO. The printing of these materials was 
acne by BETTIE H~UGHTON on an offset press which she had 
maintained since the time her husband was in the MM organization. 
Many copies of these printed materials have been sent out to. 
people knovm in the past to have been MM members or other 
Right Wing sympathizers. 
The meeting mentioned in the first paragraph of the 
histo~y leaflet is actually a disguised reference to the meeting 
which took place in the motel room at Yuma, Arizona, on 
October 17, 1971. 
(SD T-2, October 20, 1971) 
DAVIS returned home from Las Vegas, Nevada, on the 
evening of Octob~r 23, 1971. He stated that the reason for 
this delay was that he had become very involved in Las Vegas 
with meeting people and with organizing the SAO indicating r 
!I 
9 
NW 38296 Docld:32989574 Page 500 • 
i 
l 
' 
I } 
i t 
:1 
,· 
I I 
I i 
I i 
