13-00000 
So Congress need not and should not consider classification policy in a vacuum. 
It must start with the reality of classification policy as it is today and ufirst, do no harm." 
Legislative changes to the classification system should begin by affirming what is· 
positive in current policy- and then building on it. 
THE GOVERNMENT SECRECY ACT OF 1997 
The Government Secrecy Act contains a number of important provisions which 
are derived from the two-year investigation of the Commission on Protecting and 
Reducing Government Secrecy. The Act's two most positive innovations- a ubalancing 
test" and a National Declassification Center- are also the ones that have elicited the 
strongest opposition from the executive branch. I will comment briefly on each of 
these, and suggest one other area for Committee consideration . 
• 1. The balancing test and judicial review. 
Section 4(c)(1) of the Act would require officials to weigh or ubalance" the 
potential benefit from aisclosure against the need for protection in making classification 
and declassification decisions, and further dictates that if there is significant doubt 
about the need to 'classify the information, it shall not be classified. 
From the perspective of a non-governmental consumer of government 
information, this is the Act's single most important provision. 
In the abstract, the idea of ubalancing" is unexceptionable and is almost built into 
the practice of classification. Executive order 12958 includes a discretionary balancing 
test for declassification (sect. 3.2b) as well as a usignificant doubt" standard (sect. 1.2b) 
for classification. (Interestingly, the CIA promulgated a balancing test during the Carter 
Administration which remains in effect today [32 C.F.R. 1902.13(c)].) 
.. 
This provision of the Act has drawn agency opposition not because of its 
balancing requirement per se, but because it would allow judicial review of agency 
balancing decisions under the Freedom of Information Act. The idea that courts would 
presume to usecond guessn agency classification decisions is profoundly unwelcome to 
classifiers, who warn of disastrous consequences if their judgment is questioned. 
This warning is self-serving and needs to be taken with large grains of salt. 
Similar concerns contributed to President Ford's decision to veto the 197 4 amendments 
to the Freedom of Information Act, which allowed judges to determine whether 
information had been uproperlV classified.12 Fortunately, Congress overrode that veto 
and it turned out that the opponents' fears were not realized. 
12See President Ford's veto message at 120 Congressional Record H36243-4. 
6 
