I 
. 
·.• 4 
• • 
I'11cmorandum to f1ir ~ Sullivan. 
Re: TEC1-TI'~ICAL SURVEILLANCE. COVfu~AGE .· 
• OF DIFLOJ\1ATIC ESTABLISHr1lli.llTS 
65-63113 • 
.. · 
and the loss of Goa in Portnguese India. • Its relations with· the . 
United States are strained~at this time and anti-United States 
deri1onstrations· have been permitted.· • 
.QBSERVATIQNS • 
It cannot be said with any assurance that?. all of this 
coverage will be _productive of valuable intelligence data. TI1e 
·I diplomatic representatives in the U.S. of some couritries are much 
1 more active. <:llld knowledgeable than those of others. With regard to ~ 
some coun.tries· :we· may rt1J1 into de~ini te translation problems. 
. If the coverage were instalied·at the embassy and United 
,11Nations Deleiation of each· of the 16 countries mentioned above 
l ii simul taneous1y . this would increase our number of technical 
1~jsurveillances by 32. We presently have 84 technical surveillances 
ia.;and one additional one is being installed. Of these 85, 31 are in 
- Bureau cases and four are exclusively maintained at the request of 
the National Security Agency (NSA). We are also installing coverage 
of teletype facild.'ties of seven additional establishments at NSA 
request, which wi~l increase·our count from 85 to 92. The addition 
of technical surveillances.in.instant matter will probably raise the 
total to 100 P1:" more, of which 11 w~ll be a~ NSA request. We have proposed that 1n the future we not include 111 our over-all count those 
teclu1ical surveillances which are maintained at the request of NS.A. 
The best way to test the potential in instant matter is to 
install coverage on six or eight es~ablishments, see what we get,. 
replace the unproductive coverage with new coverage of new 
establislunents., a1id, in general, continually probe the potential of· 
this coverage oy changing our targets selectively. 
RECQD'ib'IENDATIQNS; 
'· 
1. Atta
1
ched for approval is a letter to the Attorney 
General specifying:· the additional countries coverage of which we 
feel might be productive. We are advising the Attorney General that 
'if he· approves we will explore the feasibility of coverage of the 
embassy as well as the United Nations Delegation.of each country., 
TI1ereafter, if the coverage .is feasible, we will clear each proposed 
!nstallation with State and with the Attorney General, as we J1avc 
1n the past& 
