WFO 105-8906 
1 Fr.. _ comments, it is clear that KGB 
,considered JAFFE.as at least a cooperative source and 
it is clear that JAFFE was furnishing some type of infor­
mation to KGB officer KUSKOV. -S --
cit . 
3) Since(JAFFE's arrival in Wash1.ngton, n:c. 
in the Fall of 196.21, he has been observed in contact with 
Soviet officials .assigned to Washington, D.C. In addition, 
i -on 11/14/68, he approached some WFO Agents who were con-
1
1 ducting a surveillance on satellite personnel and indicated 
that he would like to have contact with the FBI in Washing~ 
ton, D.C. -in the same manne~·as he had previously had con-
tact in New York.· He indicated that he was in contact with 
Soviets in Washington, DcC. and would report on them. WFO 
did not initiate contact with him at that time because it 
was desired to obtain.from New York the complete details 
of New Yorkts relations with him, and it was also desired 
to interview , ... ff concerning him. As indicated above, 
the New York material has now been reviewed and 1il'IJidMtr 
was interviewed concerning JAFFE_ by WFO Agents on 2/11/69 ..... ,5-
It is considered entirely possible that JAFFE, 
while in Moscow, furnished only innocuous information to 
his KGB contact and.did not consider that he was a re­
cruited agent or source of KGBo He should be given an 
opportunity to describe his activities in Moscow. Based 
upon review of information pertaining to him, it appears 
that he could be a good source against Soviets in Washing­
ton, D.C., provided he is candid concerning his activities 
in Moscow and is not, in fact, a recruited agent continuing 
to report to KGB.· It is believed that an interview with 
him is necessary to assess this potential. -C.---
4) As indicated in NYairtel, JAFFE appears to 
be concerned regarding derogatory information which has 
appeared in a book written by PHOEBE GREENE COURTNEY. He 
has related these allegations to his recall from Hong Kong 
by his employer and is concerned regarding the allegation 
3 
NW 38326 Docld:32989704 351 
'"} 
1 
1 
l 
i 
