I, 
' 
( A. 
( 
( 
PART II t 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AN PUBLIC CONTACTS 
PRESS RELEASES 
Employees are forbidden to furnish to the press either.'directly or indirectly 
any informati_on concerning Bureau ma·tters without prior authorization from the 
Bureau except in following instances. (Bureau in turn must obtain departmental 
clearance as set forth in Departmental Order 2460.) : 
1. Bureau authority is granted for S.A.Cs to make releases on purely rou-tine 
cases, local in nature, not involving other field divisions, national. 
policy, national interest, other Federal agencies, state, county, or 
municipal employees, or persons of prominence whose names would be 
newsworthy in themselves, and where arrests have been made with the 
·authorization of the USA in the following classifications. The Bureau 
ii to be advi~ed that such releases have been made. 
a. Routine cases in which complaints have been filed 
b. SeJ.ective Service cases, except wh.en· draft boards· are involved 
c. Interstate transportation of stolen motor vehicle, except when wide­
spread rings are involved 
d. White Slave Traffic Act 
e. Des·erter cases, except charges growing out of the harboring of 
deserters 
Illegal wearing of uniform 
Impersonation 
National Firearms Act 
Federal Firearms Act 
Extortion 
Red Cross Act 
Theft from interstate shipment 
mo May Act 
no Pat.ent matters 
o. Copyright matters 
po Federal Reserve Act 
q., Mail fraud 
ro Falsely claiming citizenship . 
s 0 •Illegal manufacture, possessio~ or wearing of civil defense insignia 
t 0 • Illegal •manufacture, sal-e, -or use of military cremation urn 
Uo Crimes on the high seas 
Vo National Bankruptcy Act 
w. Theft, embezzlement, robbery, illegal possession of, or· destruction of 
Government property 
Xo Crimes on Indian reservation 
y. Crimes on Government reservation 
Zo 
aao 
ab. 
Bills of Lading .A.ct 
False entries in records·of interstate carriers 
Illegal use of a railroad pass 
ac 0 Interstate transportation of gambling devices 
ad. Interstate transportation of lottery tickets 
ae 0 Interstate transportation of obscene matter 
af. Escaped Federal prisoner, escape and rescue, parole violator or 
conditional release violator or probation violate~ 
ag. Interstate transportation of stolen property 
ah. Unlawful flight to avoid prosecution, unlawful flight to avoid 
confinement, unlawful flight to avoid giving testimony (Bureau still 
to be promptly advised) 
ai. Bank robbery 
aj. Interstate transportation of stolen cattle 
ak. Migratory Game Bird Act 
1 
6-30-58 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 987 
