'I 
i: 
i' 
I I 
'I 
I 
, .. . , 
:i 
othenvisc, yc.,u w,1:ch ,1nd sec, l k:1tw: :hc,11, they \':i'-
• try le' put the bL1mc on ~is fo:- lhis lhi,~~-1 Uut tell ff 
how many Presidents h:ive been assassiA.1Led? Foc:1 • 
This is most disturbing! In Cuba, only cine has kc:, 
assassinated. ·'!J:w know, when we were l\idin,, Vii\ i1: 
t Sierra there were some not in tn ~rou an­
other who wanted to ·ill l3Jtist,1. They thought they 
could do away wit a regime by ecapitat 1ing it. I have 
always been violently opposed to such n\ethods. First 
of all from the viewpoint of political self-interest, be­
cause so far JS Cuba is concerned, if G,1tista h.:id been 
killed he wouicl have been rq1bccd by ~ome military 
figure who would have tried to rnJke the ,revolutionists 
pay for the martyrdom of the dictator. B1ut I was .:ilso 
opposed to it on personal grounds; as~assination is 
repellent to me." • i 
The broadcasts were now resumed. One reporter 
felt he should mention the difficulty N1rs. Kennedy 
was having in getting rid of her bloodstained stockings. 
Fidel exploded: "\'\/hat sort of a mind isithis!" He re­
peated the remark several times: "v\'lbt sort of a 
mind is this? There is a difference in oJr civilizalions 
after all. Are you li.ke this in Europe? I For us Latin 
Americans, death is a sacred matter; no:t only docs it 
mark the close of hostilities, but it als9 it:nposes de­
cency, dignity, respect. There arc even !street urchins 
who behave like kings in the face of dc.:itl~. Incidentally, 
this reminds me of something else: if ;you write all 
those things I told you Frr.,Jay .:1gai11st Kennedy's 
policy, don't use his n.:ime now; speak instead of the 
policy of the United States pvernmc;,t.)' 
Toward 5 o'clock, Fidel C1stro <lccla:rcd that since 
there was nothing ,•,·e could do to alter the tr.:igedy, we 
must try to put our time lo good use in :spite of it He 
wanted to accompany me in person on a visit to a 
grnnja de puchlo (state farm), where hd had been en­
gaging in some experiments. His presei~t obsession is 
agriculture. He reads nothing but agro1~omical studies 
and reports. He dwells lyrically on the soil, fertilizers, -
and the possibilities which will give I Cuba. enough 
sugar cane by 1.970 to achieve economicJ independence. 
• i 
"Didn't I Tell Yoi," 
We went by car, with the _ ri'ldio 0(1. The Dalbs 
police were now hot on the trail of tHe .:issassin. He 
is a Russian spy, SJ)'S the news com
1
mcntator. Five 
minutes Liter, correction: he is. a sp~ married to a 
R ussia·n. Fide_! said: "There, didn't I tJll you; it'll be 
__:_my...turn next." Bu~ y~. Tl~e next !word was: the 
assassin is a Marxist deserter. Then the word came 
through, in effect, that the assassin wa:s a young man 
who was a member of the "F.:iir P!Jy for Cuba Con,­
rnittee," that he w.:is an admirer of Fidicl Castro. Fidel 
declared: "lfthey had had proof, they \\'ould have said 
I 8 
he \\·:1s ,111 ,--:gent, ,111 ,1eeum;-,licc, .:i hired killer. In 
·s,1ying simply th,1t he is ,1n admi:.:::i::, thic is just to trv 
;ind make ,111 association in people's minds betw~c:1 th~ 
n,1me of C1stro and the c:mo:iori av:;ikened bv the 
assassination. T_his is a publicity method, a. p~op,q~J.nda 
device. fr's terrible. But you know, I'm s:.ue this will . 
.1!1 soon blow over. There are too many competing 
policies in the United States for any single one to be 
able to impose itself universally for very long." 
\;\le arrived at the granja de p1ieblo, where the form­
ers welcomed Fidel. At th.:it very moment, a speaker 
announced over the radio that it was now known that 
the ass.:issin is a "pro-Castro 'tvlarxist." One commen­
t.:itor followed another; the remarks became increas­
ingly emotional, increasingly aggressive. Fidel then 
excused himself: "We shall have to give up the visit 
to the fJrrn.'., \,Ve ,vent oo tO'rYerd Mataozas f_cooa where 
he cou}d telephone Preri.ient J?ortic9~ On the \vay he 
had questions: "Who is Lyndon Johnson? What is his 
repute1tion? What were his relations with Kennedy? 
With Khrushchev? What was his position at the time of 
the attempted invasion of Cuba?" Fi_nally and most 
important of all: "~hat authority docs be exercise 
over the CIA?" Then abruptly he looked at his w.1tch, 
saw that it would be half an hour before we reached 
Matanzas and, practically on the spot, he dropp.ed off to 
sleep. • 
After Mat.1nzas, where he must have decreed a state 
of alert, we returned to Varadero for dinner. Quoting 
the words spoken to him by a woman shortly before, 
he s.:iid to me th,1t it was an irony cf history for the 
Cubans, in the situation to which· they had been re­
duced by the blockade, to have to mourn the death of 
a President of the United States. "After all," he addefil, 
"there are perhaps some people in the world to whom 
this news is c_ .1use for rejoicing. The South Vietnamese 
guerrillas, for example, and also, I would imagine, 
Madame Nhu!" • 
I thought of the people of Cuba, accustomed to the 
sight of posters like the one depicting the Red Army 
with maquis superimposed in front, md the screaming 
captions ""HALT, MR. KENNEDY! CUBA IS :SOT ALON'£ ..•• " 
I thought of all those who had been led to associate 
their deprivations with the policies of President John 
F. Kennedy. 
At dinner I was ilble to take up all my guestions. 
\;\/hat had. motivated Castro to endanger the peace of 
the world with the missiles in Cuba? How dependent 
was Cuba on the Soviet Union? ls it not possible to 
envisage relations between Cuba ao.;,l~Jhe United States 
along the.same lines as those betweeri Finland and the 
Russi;ms? How was the transition made from the 
'humanism of Sierra Maestra to the MJ.rxism-Leninism 
of 19617 Fidel Castro, once more in top form, had an 
explanation for everything. Then he questioned me 
