14-00000 
.. , . .. ... . .. :t 
,.:-
J 
'j 
., Federal Register / Vol. 60, No. 26 / \Vodnesday, February 8, 1995 / Proposed Rules 7507 
di~locwo of tho fullest possiblo CHAPTER XIV-ASSASSINATION 
histoncal rucord on this tr11sedy 11nd on RECORDS REVIEW BOARD 
• subsequent invost1gatlons and inquires PART 1400-GUIOANCE FOR 
Into ii. INTERPRETATION AND 
The Doard's pruposed guidance Is IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 
dcslgnod to bolp government agencies PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY 
• and the Board Identify and m11ke ' ASSASSINATION RECORDS 
available to the public all documonts COUECTION ACT OF 1992 (ARCA) 
that will onhanco, enrich, and broaden Soc. 
the historical NCUrd or the 8'S8$Sination 1400.1 lnh:r;,ret11t1on or 8SSOS\(nol1on 
of Prosldont John I-". Kennady. 1'be recorJ. 
Duord &00ls tluougb this t;uidance to 1-600.2 l11terp11,1ation nf 1ddl11Gr.1I rt<ords 
(t:Uill Con~:eu•, "mton(IJ and omphuil 1111d 1,.1..,nn.11,on. 
that tho 54.,~ch and diaclo,wu of records HOO l Soun:e, of as).~.s,i.11,a rocc,rd1 <ir.d 
ur.Jur lhas hct must so boyood" the aJd111c,nal reu,1ds and tnfnnner1on. 
_,.,,.rds of pro\·ious commissions and I 40U.4 ·1 YJ>ft ol maleriah Included in ,.::cl-0 ....... or ISSllsalrwllon l)!Cord end 11dJi1iu11.1 commith,cs ustablished to lnvostJgate l'bWrd ■ end infonn•tion . 
President KoMody's a&:.45:ilnotlon. Id. at 1400.S Requirement that as:.assanatlon 
21. The Doard also sot:u to provide rccorrh be rele.:iseJ In 1h11ir cnurely 
notice of the scope of its intandod H0O.6 Or,g,nal• end cop,,.s. 
exercise of authurity to soek addiUonal 1400.7 A°dd111onAI guil1Jnr,• 
information or records In ordor to fulfill HOO II lmplemt!ntmg •he ARCA-Cu1alc,s of Assassination Rrcnrds Us functions ond responslbilitios~under Authority: 44 u S.C. 2107 r.oie. 
tho ARCA. 
In addition, the Board propo~s to § 1400.1 ln1erpretation or 0$$as:.lnallon 
create 3 moc:hanfsm to facilitate the ntcord. 
Board's ongoing work and to further (,1) An u.~sassinotion record includes, 
ensure futUJ"e public access to the but is not hmlled to, all records, public 
broadest poss1blo historical record. TI1ls and private, n,gudless of how labt?1cd or 
mechanism will be l.nown as the identified, that documont, descnhe. 
••Catalog nf hs.sassinatioo Records" . report, analyze, or interprot activillcs 
(COAR). The COAR is intenaod to be an- o.nd events that mayh.1vo"lod lo tJ1e 
. oCficlal listlnc or all records determined assassination or Presid,mt John F. 
by tho Boord to meet the definition of Kennedy; the assa.ssin:illon itself; and 
.. asS3ssinotion record" and included in Investigations of ur inq11iric~ inlo the assassination. 
the JFK Collection. (b) An ossassinatifln rt>cord furthor 
Request for Comments includos, without limitation: 
( 1) All records as defined in Soc. 3(2) 
The Uoard seeks public comment on of tho ARCA; 
its proposed interpretive regulations (2) All records called by or segregated 
intended to provide guidanco ~n tho by all foderal, state, and local . ,0 
lntorprc\aUon of the term assa~ination government agcndos in conjunction 
recorJ, the lutended scope of its with any investigation or analysis of or 
e,-ercise of authority to seek additional Inquiry into the assassination or 
lnfonnation or records, and its Pre5ident Kennedy (for example, any 
additional proposals for lmplomontatlon Intra-agency invusligation or analysis of 
of tho ARCA. ur inquiry Into the as5assinallon; any 
inter-agency communicaUon regarding 
List ofSubjccb In 36 CFR Part 1400 the assassination: any request by the 
House Solact Committee on . Adminii; trative practice and Assassinations to collect documents and 
procedure, Archives and rocord,. othor materials; or any inter• or intra• 
Accordingly, the Assassination agency collection or segregation of 
Records Review Board hereby-proposes -documents and other materials); • 
to establish a new chapter XIV lo title (3) Other records or groups or records 
36 of tho Code of Federal ReguI~tion~ t~ _ listed in the Catalog or J\si.assinotion 
ruad as follows: • Reco·rds. as d~ribed in§ 1400.8 oftJ1is 
chapter. 
§ 1400.2 lnterp,etatlon or addillon.:il 
r~s 1111d lnlonnauon. 
Tho term adcliliano/ inf onnation and 
records lncludt:S: 
(11) All documents used by 
governmont of fie.es and agencies cl urine 
tholr-declassifiaUon review of 
assa:;slnotion rocords as woll as all 01her 
Jocuments, lndice~ records, and ullu,r 
matoriol that disclose cryptonyms. co<le 
namos, or othor ldentificaUon material 
in assassination rocords. • . 
(b) All training manu,ls. instructional 
materials. and guid,ellnes croa~ed or 
used by the agencies ln funhoranco of 
tholr rovlew of assas.slnatloo recc,rds. 
(c) All records, li~lll. Wld documonts 
de:.enblng the procodure by which the 
1:tgoncle& idcntlfiod or sclocted 
assassination rocord, for review. 
(d) Organizational char1s of 
covernment agonclos. 
(11) lk-cords noca:.wuy 1111d !liuff.cacnt h> 
dc:~:nhe the agency's: 
(1) H&cord11 policles and schcdultJs: 
(2) Filing systems and orc1ani1.arion: 
and 
(l) Storage facilltios and location~. . 
§ 1400.3 Source• of assassination record!. 
and additional records and lnfonnatlon. 
Assasslnatlou rocords and additional 
records and lnfonnaUon may bo locate1 .. 
al, or undor the control of, without 
hmitotion: • · ·- • -
(a) Agencies, officci, and entitics·of 
the executive, logislotivo, and judicial 
branches of tho federal government; 
(b) Agencies, offices, and entities of 
_U11: executive, legislative, and judicial 
br:inchos of state and local governments; 
(c) Record ropositorles And archives or 
federal, stale, and local governments, 
including presidenUal librarios: 
(d) Record repositories and archive:. 
of universities, libraries, historical 
socieUos, and other similar 
organizations: 
(o) Individuals who possess such 
records by virtue of service with a 
government agency, offico, or entity; 
(0 Porsons, including individuals and 
corporations, who have obtained such 
records from sources identified in 
paragraphs (a) through (e) of this 
section: • 
Cg) Federal, state, and local courts: 
where such rocorda are bolng hold ' 
undor seal; or • 
(la) Foreign governments. • 
S 1400.4 Types of maleffala Included In 
scope of a~sslnatlon rec:ord and 
addlUonal nte0rda and lnfonnatJon. -
Tho torm record lo assassination 
record and additionalrecords·and -
Information lncludos, for purposes of 
interpreting and implementing tho 
ARCA: 
(di Papers, maps. and other 
docwnentary matorlal; • 
(bl Photographs; 
(cl Motion pictures; 
(d) Sound-and video rocordings; 
(el Machino roadoblo information in 
ony form; and 
