6G 
[ 
[ 
[ 
2. 
PART "II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, check.circulars, and apprehension 
orders 
( 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of.individuals 
and organizations to which identification orders, wanted flyers, check 
circulars, and apprehension. orders are to be sent. Ea·ch field office must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see "that no data is sent to 
firms l'Thich have ceased business or have merged with other· organizations • 
.A survey should be conducted- by .Agents each year by every office,. at the 
time the field office mailing •1ist is purged, to determine whether addi-­
tional names of individuals and businesses should be added to the field 
office mailing list. ' . . 
.a. Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Bureau upon receipt of 
field request, (The Bureau will prepare, on it~ own· i~itiative, 
·Addressograph plates for new FBINA grad-uates.) Title of position is 
used rather than na~e of incumbent. • 
b. Decide what organiza~ions, individuals, or concerns are to appear on 
the list. 
(1) The quality of the assistan_ce the addressee is _in a· position to 
give 
(2
3
) The cooperation which has been afforded 
( ) The following must·appear on the list: 
• .Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division· · • . Missions Providing Lodgin·g 
Bureau of Customs ·' Post Office Inspectors 
Coop era ti ve Credit Bureaus Postmasters· . 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Salvation·Army. 
ment Offic~rs Secret Service 
FBINA Graduates U. S. Mars·hals 
Hotels 
Immigration and Naturaliza­
tion Service 
(4) The following may appear on the list: 
.Automobile Clubs 
Banks 
[Car Reutal Agencies] 
County .Attorneys 
County Coroners 
Credit Companies 
Detective Agencies 
Enlistment Officers,[U. S. Air 
Force,).A.rmy, Navy, Marine Corps 
Employment Service 
Fire Departments 
Forest ·service 
Gunsm:t/4hs 
Insur/nee Companies 
Movie Studios 
Navy Shore Patrol 
Oil Company Special Agents 
Parole and Probat~on Officers 
• Plant Q.uar·antine Officers 
Protective .Associations 
Race Tracks • • 
Savings and Loan .Associations 
Service Recruiting Officers 
State Employment Otfices 
State Hospitals for Insane 
Steamship• Companies 
Telegraph Companies 
U. s . .Attorneys 
U. s.· Commissioners 
c. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. 
Should a compelling reason· exist for distribu·tion.·· of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approvai for 
such distribution. 
d. Give consideration to the desirability o~ circularizing motels. 
e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has respons:ibilit"y for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
4 
2-27-62 
( 
I 
\ 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 301 
