' . . . 
BOMBING DEATH OF 
WHARLEST JACKSON 
AT NATCHEZ, MISSISSIPPI 
ON FEBRUARY 27, 1967 
CIVIL RIGHTS 
BOMBING MATTERS 
\ 
A full in'Q'estigation is being conducted at the Depart­
ment's request concerning the death of Wharlest Jackson at Natchez, 
Mississippi, as a result of a bomb exploding in his pickup truck as 
he left work at the Armstrong Tire and Rubber Company in Natchez 
shortly after 8 p. n10 on February 27, 1967. , 
Jackson had been employed by the Armstrong Company 
since June, 1955. On February 20, 1967, he began training for a new 
job as a cement mixer, a type of position previously held only by white 
men. His particular job was a ne,v position and ·was based on seniority. 
Jackson had held the position of treas-urer in the National Association 
for the Advancement of Colored People in the Natchez branch and is 
survived by his wife and five children. George Metcalf, a Negro fellow 
employee, also active in the National Assocation for the Ad vanceme·nt 
of Colored People, who previously customarily rode to work with 
Jackson, was seriously injured in a similar type explosion in 19 65. 
On the scene examination by Laboratory experts 
indicates that a high-order explosive was detonated under the cab portion 
of Jackson's truck directly beneath the driver. Fragments of wire 
recovered at the scene appear to be wire from an electric blasting 
cap, indicating that such a cap may have been connected to and 
activated by the electric .wiring system of the truck., Portioraof the 
wires to the brake light, tail lig.ht, and left rear turn indicator light, 
which ,vere originally located on the inside of the left frame, are 
missing as a result of the explosiono No additional physical evidence 
has been disclosed to dateo 
- Extensive investigation conducted under the on-the-scene 
supervisiou of Insp(~ctor Josep~ A. s~1llivan indi.cates that a group known 
as the Silver Dollar group is responsible for the bombinge The Silver 
Dollar group is reportedly a secret group of Mississippi and Louisiana 
Klansmen founded in June, 19 65. One informant is presently a n1en1ber 
of the group but to date has been unable to establish the identity of 
• 
·.·,,.,. 
: ' • -' . . . -~ 
I .... ' ··.•:. 
', 
