• I 
W. E. B. DU BOIS CLUBS OF AMERICA (DCA) 
A source has advised that on October 26-27, 1963, a 
conference of members of the Communist Party (CP), including nationa] 
functionaries, met in Chicago, Illinois, for the purpose of setting 
in motion forces for the establishment of a new national Marxist­
oriented youth organization which would hunt for the most peaceful 
transition to socialism. The delegates to this meeting were· 
cautioned against the ge~m of anti-Soviet and anti-CP ideologies. 
These delegates were also told that it would be reasonable to assume 
that the young socialists attracted into this new organization 
would eventually pass into the CP itself. 
A second conference of over 20 persons met in Chicago 
on December 28-29, 1963, for the purpose of initiating. a "call" 
to the new youth organization and planning for a founding convention 
to be held in June, 1964. -. 
A ~econd source has advised that the founding convention 
for the new youth organization was held from June '19-21, 1964, 
at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisci, California, at which 
time the name w. E. B. DuBois Clubs of America (DCA) was adopte·d. 
Approximately 500 delegates from throughout the United States 
attended this convention. The aims of this organization, as set 
forth in the preamble to the constitution are, "It is our belief 
that this nation can best solve its problems in an at~osphere of 
peaceful coexistence, complete disarmament and true freedom for all 
peoples of the world, and that these solutions will be reached 
mainly through the united efforts of all democratic elements in 
our country, composed essentially of the working people allied in 
the· unity of Negroes and other minorities with whites. We further 
fully recognize that the greatest threat to American democracy 
comes from the racist and right wing forces in coalition with the 
most reactionary s~ctions of the economic power structure, using the 
tool of anti-Communism to divide and destroy the unified struggle 
of the working people. As young people in the forces ·atruggling 
for democracy, we shall actively strive to defeat these rea9tionary 
and nee-fascist elements and to achieve complete freedom an:d • 
democracy for all Americans, thus enabling each individual to freely 
choose and build the society he would wish to live in. Through 
these struggles we feel the American people will realize the 
viability of the socialist alternative." 
APPENDIX 
fl 
.. ~------------------------------------ -
NW 38613 Docld:34530152 42 
,-
