13-00000 
APR 04 '97 10:11AM 
I ... 
PAGE 34 
56 Md. L. Rev, 1. *29 
records where only government officials have access to such information? 
These questions indicate the range of issues associated with deciding 
whether to postpone releasing the names of inform~ts and agents. Where does the 
requirement for a full historical record of the Kennedy assassination yield to 
the prudential uses of secrecy to preserve the nation Is ability to gather ,.r 
intelligence? 
IX, Sources and Methods 
Tlie JFK Act requires the Board to balance the need to protect sources and 
methods of intelligence collection with the public need for disclosure of 
information relating to the assassination. nlBl The inapp~opriate release of 
documenes, either in part or in full, dealing with our intelUgence agencies• 
• sources and methods could a:fford hostile nations, organized crime. terroris~, '" 
and drug dealers an understanding of our intelligence capabilities. If another ·, i 
nation or a t~rrorist group knows how we are able co exercie~ surv~illance over 
them, they are likely co adopt appropriate countermeasures. They also might seek 
to provide selectively misleading information, knowing that we are listening and 
how we are listening. Many of the documents already available in th.e JFK 
Collection at the National Archives indicate that the United States bugged, 
tapped,. photographe.d, and otherwise conducted surveillance of persons and 
places. The question arises whether we should also reveal the precise kind of 
equipment that was used, how it was employed, and against whom it was targeted. 
Knowledge about equipment and technique would be important in evaluating the 
capability of the intelligence community, not only to ply its craft, but to 
organize a conspiracy on its own. Again. the question arises whether disclosing 
a sourc:e, method,·or technique should- turn-on whether positive or negative 
information becomes available. 
- - • • • - - -Footnotes- - - - • • - -
nl8l. See 44 u.s.c. 2107 (7) (authorizing postponement of the release of 
records if the threat of disclosure •1s of such gravity that it outweighs the 
public interest•); see also supra note 102 and accompanying text. 
- - - -End Footnotes- - - - - - - - • • • • - - -
Exhibit Five provides a good indicacion of the kinds of issues involved in 
dealing with sources and methods. n182 This document is a cable .sent from the 
Director of che CIA on November 23, 1963, only hours after the murder of the 
President, seeking information about a .. surveillance operation conducted in 
Mexico City. nl83 The message [*30] sought information about what the.CIA 
operatives in Mexico City knew about the existence of tapes and transcripts 
involving surveillance of the Soviet Embassy t.he:re. nl.84 The CIA originally 
requested the postponement of much of the information in this document; however, 
the Board decided that its c:entrality to understanding the assassination story 
required its release. wit.h the only redaction being the name of. the 
authenticating office, whose pseudonym was used in its place. nl8S Because it 
helps to clarify the issue of whether the CIA taped Oswald's conversations in 
the Embassy, this document is one of the most significant released by the Board 
to date. This document also suggests the CIA'S awareness of and interest in 
Oswald before he purportedly shot the Pr~aident. 
