107B - C 
9. 
10. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
lf. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
- -S"EGTIOH 107. SECURITY INF:G.RI·iAl:'11:: .ki'-:J CO:i.JFJ:DE!-,TIAL SOU?.CES 
Investigation c" cormnunis•b petition ·si~ners who aro acquainted \, ::bh 
Commu.nist Party functionaries 
Be a:ert to receive any suggestions of plant executives and highly placed 
personnel who are reliable and friendly to the Bureau. concerning members 
of subve.!'Sive organizations who might cooperate with the Bureau or employ­
ees whc- might be willing to infiltrate a subversive organization. In the 
past such contacts have on occasion resulted in tte plant's making avail­
able the services of an employee who already is an ·informant of the manage-
ment. •• 
Personnel directors in plants frequently are able ·bo advise of members of 
communist-dor1Ji;J.ated unions who retain their membership merely to 4old 
tl:eir pc::itiom . 
Wi t:i re.::-:.;;-d to both 10 and 11 aboYe, if .... ~, si ble, the official shou.lc1 
suggest to the potential informant that~- contact the ~ureau rRther 
~han hav& an Agent originate the oontac 
After the Bureau has notified the armec.. ·~ces of a communist in an indus­
trial :,J.ant having armed forces contrac· ·, the communist frequently recants 
w:h.en he is informed of the charges and i .. facing the pos~ibili ty o-f dis­
missal or transfer to a nonrestricted po:;i tion in the· same ·plant. At 
such a time, officers friendly to the Bure~u sometimes suggest that 
the person advise the Bureau of his past activities. Be alert to take 
advantage of such cooperation when offered, 
Review of Communist Party registration records to ascertain what individ­
uals merely registered but neYer became active 
Use of a reli.able third party to make the contact with a possible inform­
ant when direct contact by an Agent is inadvisable. Request Bureau to 
furnish the services of an individual who is available for such a contact. 
Officials and employees of foreign establishments in the Ui s. 
Employees of the United Nations Secretariat • 
Contacts (business, social, or otherwise) of foreign officials staiioned 
i·n ·bhe U. S. 
Individuals who because of background, employment, or social-status are 
in a position of intelligence interest to a foreign principal and who_ 
will undertake intelligence assignments under the guidance of the 
Bureau. (See deseco program, section 105K,6h, volume IV, of this manual.) 
C. INTERVIEWS WITH AND DEVELOPMEN.T OF BACKGROUND ON INDIV"::DUALS BEING 
CONSIDERED FOR "·INFOR11ANT· PURPOSES 
When a decision is made to consider a Particular 'indi • ·:.ual for informant 
p~rposes, background investigation mus~ be conducted. ··xtensive background 
investigation should not. be conducted, however, until ~ 1"•.e ind:i vi dual has 
been interviewed and it has been determined he is willing to assist ·!;he _ 
Bureau. Obtain prior Bureau authority to interview whenever the restrictions 
imposed in section 87D, item 6b, (7), volume III, and section 105K, item 6b, 
[ [ (9),]volume IV, relative io ~~terviews apply. Background investigation 
should c_onsi1"t of the follc;·: • .,g: • 
1. Check of field office .:fl :.cs r"or derogatory inf orni.a tion 
2. Discreet canvass of 16gical informants to ascertain if the individual 
is known to them 
3. Inquiries of discreet nature to obtain information concerning the individ­
ual~s personal history (dati and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, _ 
health, reli.ability, stability, .integri~;y, general reputation, present and 
past employments, and business connect:: .s. Background investigation must 
definitely establish that the individu&l can b~ utilized without any_ 
danger of ftiture embarra~sment due to instability or unreliability. 
Securi~g background information from the individual is not sufficient; 
his background must be established by the investigation, ihcluding discreet 
inquiries among persons who are personally acquainted :-ri th him. 
4. ·Check of local credit and arrest records. Obtain nec:·~~arv data for 
the completion of an FD-9 form which should be trans., ·:;ed· to· the Identi­
fication Division to obtain any record he may have. 
5. Armed services record should be reviewed. if the indiYici.ual is.a veteran. 
6. Check draft status or statu.s in the armed· forces reserve. 
7. D~~estic status and if any marital difficult~es all details should be 
obtained. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1605 
4 
5-13-66 
... 
( 
