[107P - 0. SECTION 107, .ECTJRITY TifFOR!1Al!TS[DllJ COl!FIO ... L SOURCES] 
P. SIGHIUG OF LOYALTY OATHS, AFI"ID .. '.VITS, AllD STATi!:11EHTS 
1. Every effoi·t should be L%:i.c to gu:i.de security informants away from 
situations requiring them to sign o~ fill out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. I~for.r.ants should be cautio~cd to keep the contacting Agent fully 
advised of any situation whereln they might be required to sign such a 
for1n. 
3. Advise Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
4; The Bu~eau will consider as a last resort advising another agency of 
the informant's relationship with the Bureau, together with pertinent 
facts concerning the inf oi·mant I s activity; . ho never, such 1:, i tua tious 
must be kept to a inin:i.raum in view of the obYious dangers to the 
informa.nt; 
5.. Each such s i tuu tio n must be <.rn.r(·!fufly considered B,nd Bureau is to be 
advised as promptly as possible, together with an appropriate rccom­
mendatio~ fur propoae~ act~on. 
6. In no instance should you permit an informant to sign a loyalty oath 
.in the negati-ve. 
Q. DISGOI-iTINUJ:JD INFORl1A1-i'l'S 
1. When th~ services of an informant are discontinued, mark the name card 
( "cancelled, 11 Destroy the symbol card. Never destroy the name card. 
2. Refile the name card in numerical order by symb'ol· number 'in the symbol 
number index. '.l'he symbol numoer shall not be subsequently reassigned 
to another informant. If a discontinued informant or a discontinued 
potential security in-fo1·mant or confid.en-:t;ial source to whom a symbol 
number was once assigned later is reactiva{ed, remove .his name card from 
the symbol number index, IM,rk it reac·ti. vated with appropriate date, note· 
thereon type of information he will now be furnishing, and refile it 
alphabetically in the name card section of the index. 
3. When a potential security informant or confidential source is discon­
tinued and a permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy the alpha­
betical index card. 
4; .A:dv-ise the Bureau when a potentia.l informant or informant is discontinued 
and the reason therefor. 
• 5. AdYise the Bureau as to whether or not the informant is willing to testify 
in open court or before administrative hearing boards. The identity of 
all cases of s ecur:i.ty of Goyerrunent employees type in which the informant 
has furni.shcd information must be ascertained and the Bureau advised in 
[ compliance -..,ith sectlon[69Y$ -roluine III, of this m? .. nnal.] 
6.· Review the jnformant's file to determine if any copi.es or summaries of 
correspondence between the Bureau qnd the field relating to the Depart­
ment's interest in using the informant for testifying when he becomes 
ayailable as a witness are contained therein. In those cases in which 5.t 
• is e-vident the Department has indicated a desire to consider the inform­
ant further when he becomes available, advise the Bureau in each such 
substantive case, except in those cases in whioh it is obvious the statute 
of limitations has run or the case has been adjudicated. This exception 
does not apply to :3ecurity of Governmen·I; e:r.pJ.oyaes oases. When all 
above action is completed, advise the Hure~u. 
7 • .A statemO"a-t shall nlso be made to the effect that the measures to con-
fa•o l informants, set out in 8 below, hi-.ve boon considered ::..nd recommenda­
tions ~hall be made when it appears that such arc ¼arraated. 
a. When the serviues of an inlorma~t are diHco~tinued, @Rintnin close con­
tact with him so that th~ informa~t will look to the Bureau for advice 
and counsel prior to taking any action which would be against the Burdau 1 s 
best interests. When an i11forrna.nt is disoontinucd, determine whether 
he has plana fur writing a book, ffiagazine or newspaper article, or other­
wise publicizing his activity. If oo, he should be impressed with the 
desirability of coming to the Bureau for asslatancu and guidance rather 
than making ot.hcr a.rr.u1gements. If.an informant insists 011 eng:.>.ging in 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1449 
24 
2-12--GO 
) 
•. 
