·' .' ;_ ',:'I ' • :• I 
siderably, off his chest, a much more r.elaxed Amlash departed restating 
his desire return Cuba to undertake 'the big job~"'" 
On October 15, London 5224 to DIR states case officer O met with 
Amlash and Amwhip on 13 October. Although. the case officer had been 
forewarned by Amwhip, he was not successful in discouraging Amlash's 
request for a high level meeting. "Amlash convinced that if such meet 
does not take place at this time it will be almost impossible come out 
again and we will be in same situation as last year with no definite 
decision. Also finds it difficult to believe why RFK who receives many 
Cubans would refuse to see a major" such· as Amlash. The message notes 
the fact remains that Amlash does "have excellent entree to highest 
target level which believe we cannot afford overlook. 
11 
• / 
This message seemingly moved Headquarters to re-evaluate Amlash's 
role. DIR 75683 to London 'on 15 October directed case officer Oto 
return headquarters soonest. for discussions of all phases of th.e case. 
The next meeting apparently took place on October 29. One case 
officer met Amlash holding himself out as the personal representative 
of RFK. He informed Amlash, according to a 13 November MFR, that 
the U.S. was prepared to render all necessary assistance to any anti­
communist Cuban group which succeeded in neutralizing the present Cuban 
leadership and which assumed significant control to invite the U.S. 
to render assistance. He emphasized that·U.S; support could come only 
after a successful coup. Amlash responded by saying that without Fidel, 
the military would break up into 4 or 5 groups and the regime would 
disintegrate. He also said he was satisfied with the policy" discussion 
but desired to know what technical support he could get. 
Since Amwhip was closer to Amlash than the case officers.· he was 
asked about Amlash's reaction to the meeting. His reactions are 
surrnnarized in Attachment A to Amwhip' s Memo of Meeting dated 14 Novem­
ber. Amwhip said Amlash was still not pleased with support from U.S. 
government. While Amlash was satisfied on policy grounds, he was not 
at all happy with the fact that he still was not given the technical 
assistance for the operation plan as he saw it. Amlash could not under­
stand why he was denied certain small pieces of equipment which promised 
a final solution to the problem, while, on the other hand, the U.S. gave 
much equipment and money to exile groups for their ineffective excursions 
against Cuban coastal targets. Am.lash had accepted the fact he had to 
work with the CIA, but CIA might lose him if it continued to 2rocrastin~ ----·-·ate.--AiiiLiish--talke·a·abouE--going--eo·-·c11e-:r.rerYcn-terrorrst·-··orgartrzat1--ox_r;---
the OAS, but realized that was not feasible. The memorandum ends with 
what apparently is the author's conclusion: mrt is_h?ped that he does 
realize that Havana.must first be taken ... or failing that, a 
truly sizeable piece of land (say, almost an entire province) which 
· could be true rallying point." 
NW _5Jl955 . Do.cld: 32423630 Page 477 
