13-00000 
APR 04 '97 10=09AM 
PAGE 2.9 
l, 56 Md. L. Rev. i, *24 
nlS.9. See R. Jeffrey Smith, Critics 11Wrong, 1 CIA Chief Says, wash. Post, 
Sept. 6, 1996, at A21, available in 1996 WL 123922S5 (noting CIA Director John 
M. Deutch' s assertion that ·crit.ics who allege that the CIA has done a poor job 
recruiting informants knowledgeable about terrorist activities are wrong). 
nl60. See Ross Parker, Confidential Informants and the Truth_ Finding 
Function, 4 Cooley L. R.ev. 565, 5_96 (1987) (citing an informal examination of 
federal investigations in the Eastern District of Michigan finding that about 
sot of drug cases and 40t of public corruption cases involved the use of 
informants); Timothy A. Raezer, Needed Weapons in the Army's War on Drugs: 
Electronic Surveillance and Informants, 116 Mil. L. Rev. 1, 39-64 (1987) 
: •!• 
(extolling the benefits of informants to drug law enforcement); Zimmerman, supra 
note 158, at 178 (observing that law enforcement khas long reaped and extolled 
the benefits of informantsli). 
- -End Footnotes- - - - - - - -
What duty does the government owe to persons who agree to serve as 
informants? There are many- reasons why persons serve as informants:'Money, 
revenge, and the sheer thrill explain some of this behavior. Yet, above all 
else, informants expect chat they will be clothed in confidentiality in return 
for cheir information. An informant who is identified immediately loses value. 
All inform~ts in the service of the various domestic and international 
intelligence operations are recruited. with an understanding that they will be 
granted confidentiality - that they will neve:r: be ngiven-up• in the lingo of the 
intelligence community. n161 The very nature of what they are asked to do -
commit treason on their home government, report on the activities of groups like 
the American Communist Party, or ehed light on the activities of organized crime 
and terrorist groups - exposes them to tremendous danger; if they are revealed, 
they and their families may suffer serious personal injury, or even death~ 
- - - -Footnotes- - - • - • - - - - - -
n161. See Assassination Materials Disclosure Act III, supra-note 96, at 53 · 
(statement of CIA Director Robert M. Gates) (observing that the CIA files 
. "contain the names of individua.ls who provided us information on a promise of 
confidentiality•). 
••••••-End Footnotes- - - - - - - - - - • • - - - - -
The Kennedy assassination documents c::ontain thousands of names of informant.a 
drawn from every walk of 'life. The FBI has taken the position that these names 
must: be protected indefinitely and that any disclosure will impair the Bureau's 
ability co recruit new informants. Yet, all informants are not created equal. 
Some have greater value than others, both for the story of the Kennedy 
assassination and for providing information.about organized crime and other 
activities. Moreover, the issue.is not simply one of the quality of the 
informadon [*25] that is provided. As Exhibit One demonstrates, the vast 
majority of documents involving informants has been opened in part; infrequently 
P.29/44 
only the names of the informants and other key identifying language has been / 
redacted. n1'2 Tbese·redac:tions breed a sense of expectation among. researchers, 
because in the climate of conspiracy that surrounds the Kennedy assassination, 
any material that is covered up is presumed to be an important missing link in 
the chain of explanation about the 11l\lrder. 
