)· 
10. 
1i. 
120 
13. 
-14. 
15. 
SECTION 107. IlIFORT"!ANT S .AND 
•· ··) 
CONFIDENT. SOTJRCES 
such activities, the Bureau will consider placing him in contact 
with a reliable publisher, but it must be made clear to the inform­
ant that the Bureau will not sponsor or endorse any book or publi­
catio~ which he elects to writeo . • 
_All payments to discontinued sccuri ty informants and confidential 
sources must be made on a strict c.o.d. basis. Obtain Bureau author­
ity before making any such payments. In requesting Bureau authority 
for payments of this type, submit complete details as to the infor­
mation :furnished by the discontinued informant or source in the p;lst 
and what is to be expected of the informant or source in the future 0 
Once an informant 5 s exposed in any manner whatsoev'er he is no longer 
to be carried as a ooncealed source•in reports or memoranda. His 
lrue name is to be set forth, together with descriptive data.· 
1070. 
When an office receives i~formation concerning,or obtains information 
_from, an ex-informant, copies of memoranda prepared must be furnished 
to the office which ori~inally handled the informant so that the file 
of the ex-informant will be as complete as possible 0 
When an informant has been discontinued for cfause, such 'as unreliabil-
. i ty, he should not be contacted in the future for information. If 
such an individual furnishes information it should be accepted, but in 
setting out the information in reports or communications use the 
indiyidual 1 s true name, together with an appropriate description of his 
reliability. 
Remove flash notice pe~ section F, 6. 
Repeated ~se of the same discontinued informant as a witness at security 
trials and hearings should be avoided. Make•an all-out effort to develop 
witnesses who can furnish the same testimony as that expected of previously 
used ~·;itnesses 0 Advise Bureau of any indication by Government attorneys 
th~t an informant-witness who has previously testified will be called 
upon for testimorty at a subsequent trial or hearing and furnish your 
comments concerning possibility of supplanting the testimony of individual 
involved. Submit cormnunication under appropriate case character. 
Every effort should be made to prevent_a discontinued informant from 
bcco.r.ing involved in sltuations which may prove embarrassing to informant 
·or the Government. Immediately after he testifies for the first time, a 
serious talk should be had with informant by the SAC in the presence of 
the ;~gent who handled the informant. This interview should be conducted 
in the field office and infor~ant told that: 
a 0 He will no lQnger be operated by the Bureau 
b. Since he is a public f.igure, he will probably be contacted by 
re pres enta ti ves of the press, radio, and television for interviews and 
appearances . 
c. Ee may be sought as a witness by congrtlssional committees, by the 
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and by state authorities 
d. (Firmly stress,) In connectlon with such interviews and.appearances, 
i n.form?.nt must continue to be factual and truthful and must not build 
up or embellish the statemeats, for if he does so he will wind up in 
serious trouble. 
Advise Bureau results of such interview and comment on its possible 
effectiveness, 
Be alert to the possibilities of former informant being contacted by 
representatives of publicity media and as a witnes& by congressional 
comrr:i ttoes, INS, and st.ate authorities. It will be the SAC I s respon­
sibility to know ;•rhon a former informant is scheduled or is likely to 
appear at a hearing or ma~e a publ\c appearance of any kind. Prior 
thereto in each instance, former informant must be contactec1 and instruc­
tions above S<?t forth re:i. teratcd by Agent who ha.ndled the informant. 
Ernph.-:.si:1.e to former inftn·:nant that he must stick to the truth and make 
certain ho can back u_p what he says, and if there is any de-viation he 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1356 • 
25 
1-16-61 
I I ! 
) 
I 
i 
I ., 
! 
' ! 
I 
-I 
I 
i .1 
l 
I 
