6E - G P.A.RT II 
• SECTION 6. PUBLIC.A.TIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
3. Auxiliary offices are to advise the office of origin by letter of the c.· _ 
results obtained throu~h a circular letter. Office of origin should 
~ .. 
[ 
G. 
summarize the results in its next report. 
4. One copy of the circular letter is to be filed. A list of addressees is to 
be attached. Upon the receiyt of a reply, the addressee's name is to be 
checked to indicate this fact. Replies which are entirely negative 
5. 
6. 
7. 
should not be filed unless there is reason for doing so. Only negative 
replies are to be destroyed after handling in accordance with item 3 
above. Sub-A files may be used when the number of replies to be filed 
is large. 
A 66 fil~ may be opened to retain copies of circular letters distributed 
in order to facil"i:tate·the handling of incoming ·inquiries and replies. 
Only one copy of each circular letter is to be ~iled therein. If the 66 
file is maintained, the material therein is to be destroyed after it is a 
year old if it is no longer needed. 
·Circular letters and other information to be distributed or released to 
the public must be so worded as 'to be unob.iectionable to any race, 
[color, religion, sex, or national origino]· 
Trade publications may, with advance Bureau approval, be used to publicize 
information concerning fugitives known to be active in particular trades, 
businesses, or professions. The field office wher~ the publication is 
located should check its indices concerning the publication, as well as 
the person or persons who will have to be contacted, before seeking Bureau 
approval, and sufficient identifying d?,ta should l:ie furnished so tha_t an 
appropriate Bureau indices check may be m~de. 
RADIO[AND TELEVISION]BROADCASTS 
- Radio[.;;_nd teievision]broadcasts 
in hot-pursuit fugitive caseso 
license number believed used by 
innocent third persono 
FIELD OFFICE LISTS 
1. Law enforcement officials 
without advance Bureau appr:oval may. be· made ·· · 
Care .must be exercised in broadcasting a 
fugitive.as it may.-be disposed of·to an 
On March 1 of each year all field offices shall forward to the Bureau 
a communication pertaining to a. list of la~-; enforcement offici_als and. 
agencies whose cooperation might be helpful. One of the two following 
procedures should be used: 
a. (1) On March 1 of each year all field offices shall forward to 
the Bureau in duplicate, and with a space left between the of- . 
ficials of each Department, the list described above. Indicate 
by an asterisk any change which was not previously called 
to the Bureau's attention. 
!
al Chiefs of police 
b Sheriffs 
c .state police or highway patrol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
d U. S. Marshals and deputies 
e Ranking Federal law enforcement officers 
f Wardens of penal institutions 
g District attorneys or county prosecutors 
h Railway police (if desirable) 
i Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins 
j Any other officials who receive identification orders 
(2) Changes in the list are to be reported in duplicate to the 
Bureau as they occur. 
3a 
12-27-74 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1101 
( 
( 
( 
___:_:j 
