Secret 
During the period 1962-66 the Miami Station engaged in classical intelligence 
operations directed against the Cuban regime. Radio Americas was established and 
broadcast daily from Swan Island in the Caribbean. Psychological, economic, and 
political activities were· undertaken in an effort to undermine confidence in the 
Castro government and underscore the Soviet presence and total Cuban dependence 
on the USSR. Maritime operations were also undertaken. Among other missions, 
Cubans who desired to escape from the Cuban _mainland were assisted. 
In late 1966 a substantial cutback in the pace of operations began and a 
reorganization of the Station was undertaken as a result of a review by rugher 
authority (303 Committee). Many cover entities were terminated and personnel 
reassigned. Increased emphasis on the collection of intelligence and 
counterintelligence through operations in other foreign areas, limitation on maritime 
activities, and consolidation of written and radio output achieved considerable 
savings in money and manpower. 
In early I 968 it became apparent that as a result of sustained operational 
activity in the Miami area over a period of years the cover of the Miami Station 
had eroded to a point that the security of our operations was increasingly 
jeopardized. This erosion was more significant following the Rampartsexposure of 
CIA operations and the possibility that the location of our Station on property 
leased from the University of Miami might be especially embarrassing to the 
University. At the same time, it became apparent that activities would ·have to 
be reduced drastically for policy, budgetary, and operational reasons. It was decided 
to deactivate the Miami Station and replace it with a smaller Station wruch would 
• be better able to respond to current needs. Security had deteriorated seriously 
at the large Station (then 150 persons) wruch was under commercial cover near 
Homestead; the new Station of about 50 persons had good official cover on a 
govemment-control!ed area in a run-down part of Miami Beach. It was felt, also, 
that the new Station could facilitate adjustments in the objectives and targets of 
Miami-based operations and enable the new Station to reduce our dependence o~ 
those Cuban exiles who were no longer in tune with current or future needs. 
In August 1968 the new, smaller Miami Station was activated, and during 
the ensuing months the maritime activities were terminated; a new and much smaller 
media operation was activated, and intelligence collection was expanded to include 
the Bahamas and Lesser Antillies. Increased emphasis was given to third-country 
Cuban operations (agent recruitment and technical operations against Cuban 
Embassies abroad) under the guidance of the new Station. The Cuban emigre 
organizations supported by the Station were drastically reduced and activities were 
Hlf 50955 Docid:32105602 Page 3 
2 
Secret 
Photocopy 
from 
Gerald R. Ford Ubrar)' 
