i 
i 
[ 
r 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
A. 
SECTIONJ.07. SECURITY INFORMANTS[.A.NDCONFIDENTI.AL SOUR>7Cl7i~>C!•::;7J--TTT,;-,,--.,,-------, 
DEFINITIONS • • • 
1. Security informant .. •• 
Indi vidu,al actively engaged in obtaining and furnishing current infor­
mation on security matters exclusively for Bureau and whose identi·ty 
must be protected. Such person should be a member or ai;tend meetings 
of a subversive organization, such as the Communist Party; or be in 
such a position relative to a subversive organization, or espionage 
~otivities or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal. that he is able to obtain and does provide current infor­
mation.of value. 
2. Poten·tial security informant 
Individual in a position to become active in a subversive organization 
or espionage or intelligence activities in the U. s. on behalf of foreign 
principal or can become closely associated therewith, and is making 
affirmative effort through associations or contacts so that he can be 
in~ position actively to obtain and furnish current information to 
Bureau. 
[3. Double agent 
A specialized type of security informant; a person who 
with, receivlng assignments from, and performing tasks 
intelligence service and the Bureau under the ,Bureau 1 s 
4, Confidential source 
is cooperating 
for both a foreign 
guidance. 
.A.n individual who on a confidential basis furnishes information available 
to him through his present position, Examples would be; bankers, telephone 
company employees, American employees of foreign official establishments, 
employee.s of the United· lfations Secretariat, and in.di vi duals who fu.rnish 
trash in connection with trash covers, These indiYiduals make no 
concerted effort on behalf of the Bureau but merely obtain and furnish 
information readily available to them,] 
SOURCES OF POTENTI.A.L[SECURITY]INFORMANTS 
Informants should be developed on all organization~ and individuals which 
are inimical to the internal security. Experience has shown that potential 
informants may be obtained through alertness in the course of normal investi­
gatiYe activity, Live informant coverage depends for the most part upon 
initiative and resourcefulness of individual Agents and SACs, For assistance 
in obtaining potential informants, the following is suggested: 
l. Evaluation of 
a. Complaina.nts in security matters 
b, Persons interviewed in connection with security cases 
c. Subjects of security investigations looking for indications of disaf­
fection, disgruntlement, loss of interest, inactivity, financial hard­
ship, or other repudiation of par·l;y loyalty 
d. Bureau applicants as possible informants 
e. Personal friends and contacts of Special Agents and other Bureau 
emplo.y~es 
f. Sources of informaJGion, confidential sources, and contacts on con-
tinuot1.s basis 
2. Re"view of closed security files on individuals. 
3, Review of oomrn•anist index 
4 •. .Ascertain possibilitjes of :ceactivating former confidential informants. 
:i. Survey possibilities of: trash covers. 
6. Review f;;-.ctionalism sectio11 of file on Communist Party, US.A. 
7. Consultation with present informants regarding indications of disaffection 
on the part of' Communist Party members. They, of course, should not be 
info::cmecl ~.s to the purpose of the inquiry. 
8. Review o.r :files on communist front organizations looking for individuals 
who have been associa~ed with only one or two fronts or who attended only 
· .. a few meetings of a front, Such individuals frequently are innocent of 
commu.ni.st propensi•ties, yet they have a basis for cultivating the 
acquaintance of party members. The Progressive Party file also might 
prove a fertile field, 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 
3 
2-12-60 f 
! 
