• 3·• NEED FOR CRIMINAL-TYPE LEGISLATION 
Since April 30, 1958, the Bureau has suggested certain items 
of legislation relative to establishing some effective curbs on the activities of: 
racketeerso The most recent communication to the Department in this regard 
was a memorandum to Deputy Att.orney General Walsh dated September 2., 
1959, captioned "Legislative Program~ Eighty-sixth Congress 1 Second Session. n •. 
These legislative suggestions are as follows: 
. L There appears to be a need for legislation to prohibit the 
interstate transportation of certain gambling paraphernalia, such as number 
slips and punch boards in addition to the present prohibition of interstate 
transportation of slot machineso 
2. ·. • It also appears the interstate transmission of gambling 
information should be restricted to prohibit the transmission of gambling 
information in interstate or foreign commerce by any communication facilityo 
. Such legislation should also encompass the transmission of information as to 
the results of horse racing events until after a specified time had elapse~ 
The inability to have current race result~ would discourage the operations of. 
bookmaking establishmentso 
s.· Inasmuch as under ·the present provisions of the Internal 
Revenue ·Code· income derived from illegal businesses and from gambling 
constitutes income which is taxable and assessed in the same manner as 
. legitimate income, it appears that if. the· income from· such illicit sources were 
taxed at vastly higher rates it might make such activities financially prohibitive. 
• Inasmuch as certain individuals would attempt to avoid such taxes, it might 
be desirable to initiate legislation to provide substantial criminal penalties for 
the failure to pay such taxeso • 
4. It also ·appears legislation may be desirable to· amend the 
White Slave Traffic Act in order that the prostitute herself could be prosecuted. 
There is considerable activity among those who are engaged in this livelihood 
and who go from state to state in order to ply their trade. 
5. As an added weapon against organized crime, it appears it 
may be desirable to afford consideration to the enactment of a Federal habitual 
criminal act which ·would provide for mandatory sentences upon the commission 
of off ens es within Federal jurisdictiono • 
. In addition, the Bureau is in agreement with the Administration's 
theory of amending the Fugitive Felon Act to include damage by fire or 
explosives to religious or educational facilities. The House Judiciary Committee 
has failed to approve this proposal and has adopted a bill (a Ro 8601) which would 
prohibit dam.age_ to any building, structure, facility, vehicle or dwelling house. 
-5-
