c: 
( 
[ 
[ 
~--~TION 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATir -~ 87F 
. • --
other action taken to neutralize their activities is handled, if 
possible, in such manner as to not destroy the opportunity to 
penetrate an active espionage network. When submitting FD-122 
regarding such individual, the words "Special Intere~t" should 
be typed in upper right portion and the abbreviation "ESP" 
should be shown in the space provided after "Miscellaneous." 
(2) u. s. Government employees 
The Department has requested regular advice as to the identities 
of all u. S. Government employees whose na,mes are listed in ADE{. 
When submitting FD-122 regarding such individual, the words 
"Special Interest" should be typed in upper right portion and 
the abbreviation 11GOV11 should be shown in the space provided 
after "tv1iscellaneous ." 
(3) Foreign government employees 
In the event of a national emergency, special consideration should 
be given to these individuals to insure that investigation or 
other action taken to neutralize their activities is haridled so as 
to minimize the possibilities of diplomatic repercussions. When 
submitting FD-122 regarding such individual, the words "Special 
Interest" should be typed in upper right portion and the abbrevia­
tion "FGE" shown in the space provided after "Miscellaneous." 
(4) Pro-Cuban individuals 
In the event of a limited emergency involving the u. S. and Cuba, 
consideration should be given to affording special attention. to 
the investigation of these individuals. This would include 
individuals who are included in the ADEX solely on the basis of 
pro-Cuban activities or sympathies as well as individuals who 
are included in ADEX primarily because of other activities or 
affiliations but who have shown a marked sympathy for the communist 
regime in Cuba or who otherwise would be of special interest in 
the event of a U. So-Cuban conflict. When submitting FD-122 
regarding such individual, the words "Special I.Jlterest" should be 
typed in upper right portion and the abbreviation "CUB" should 
be shown in the space provided after 11Miscellaneous. 11 
FD-122 forms submitted relative to individuals in above "Special 
Interest 11 classes should, in addition to listing the appropriate 
abbreviation after "Miscellaneous," also indicate any other applicable 
organizational or nationalistic affiliation. For instance, FD-122 
concerning a leader of the Communist Party, USA, who is au. So 
Government employee, would carry the abbreviation "GOV"· as a miscel­
laneous item (and would have "Special Interest" typed in.upper right 
portion) and in addition would be checked as to Communist Party affili­
ation. 
Cards on "Special Interest" subjects should be filed in regular sequence 
with other ADEX cards in both the geographical (or unavailable, if 
applicable) and alphabetical sections and receive same handling as 
other ADEX cards except for instructions set forth above. Automatic 
Data Processing equipment at the Bureau will furnish on demand lists of 
individuals in any one or all of above "Special Interest" classes. 
ADEX cards for "Special Interest" subjects will bear appropriate code 
letters in upper right portion designating type of case. When subject 
no longer comes within one of class~s of special interest,·submit 
FD-122 with words "Remove f ram Special Interest" typed after 11~·1iscel­
laneous ." If card should be placed in unavailable section, add 
"Place in Unavailable Section~" When new cards are received f:rom 
Bureau, destroy old cards. 
37 
4-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1937 
I 
I 
I 
j 
- 1 
! 
! 
I 
i . l 
! 
l 
! 
! 
i • I 
i 
i 
i 
. l i 
! ! i 
! 
! l i 
i I l 
I f 
I I 
