6G 
2. 
t 
PART II 
• SECTION 6. PUDLIC,A.TIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, ~nd check circulars 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of indivi~uals 
and"organizations to which identification trders, wanted flyers, and 
check circulars are to be sent. Each field office must review annually 
its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent to firms which 
have ceased business or have merged with other organizations. A survey 
should be conducted by Agents each year by every office, at time field 
offi,ce ·mailing list is purged, to determine whether additional names 
of individuals and businesses should be added to field office mailing 
list. 
a. Addressograph plates are to be p~epared at Bureau upon receipt of 
field request. (Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on 
list. 
!
1)· Quality of assistance addressee is in a position to give 
2) Cooperation which has been afforded 
3) Following must appear o~ list: 
[Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco Missions Providing Lodging 
and Firearms] Postal Service Ins·pectors 
Bureau of Customs Postmasters 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus Salvation Army 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Secret Service 
ment Officers U. s. Marshals 
FEIN.A. Graduates ·,.· Hotels "-
Immigration and Naturali.za- ::/· ·_ 
tion Service -- ' • 
(4) Following may appear on ·list: 
Automobile Clubs 
Banks 
Car Rental Agencies 
County .A.ttorneya 
County Coroners 
Credit Companies 
Detective Agencies 
Enlistment Officers, U. S. Air 
Force, Army, Navy, Marine Cor_ps 
Employment Service 
Fire Departments 
Forest Service 
Gunsmiths 
Insurance Companies 
Movie Studios • 
Navy Shore Patrol 
Oil Company Special Agents 
Parole and Probation Officers 
Plant Quarantine Officers 
Protective Associations 
Race Tracks 
Savings and Loan Associations 
Service Recr.uiting Officers 
State Employment Offices 
State Hospitals for Insane 
Steamship Companies 
Telegraph Companies 
U. s. Attorneys 
U. s. Magistrates 
c. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. 
Should a compelling reason exist for distribution of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible'employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for 
such distribution. . 
d. Give consideration to desirability of circularizing motels. 
e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification or~er fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
4 
2-27-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1056 
