14-00000 
ATTACHMENT IV. 
Perceived Gaps in CIA Records 
Summary. This Attachment addresses the Board'. s 
requested explanation for the apparent absence of files 
which are known to have existed (or for which there is some 
evidence that they existed at one time) but cannot now be 
located. Specifically, the Board asked for such information 
on-the following: Oswald files; certain files of James 
Angleton; DCI McCone files; William Pawley; and Win Scott. 
This Attachment also addresses the Board's request that the 
Agency's Declaration " ... identify any other records relating 
to Oswald or the assassination that CIA knows to have been 
destroyed or removed from CIA files." 
Discussion. 
Files on Lee Harvey Oswald 
(a) The Office of Security (OS) maintained a pre­
assassination subject file on Oswald. This file contained 
newspaper articles and reports from other government 
agencies. As would be expected, the number of volumes of 
the subject file grew following the assassination. The pre­
assassination material remained in volume one and subsequent 
material was filed in volumes numbered II through VI. 
However, during a February 1997 search, no volume V was 
found. A second thorough search of the OS file system 
failed to produce any record of Volume V. A careful page~ 
by-page review of the contents of the existing·volumes 
revealed there is no time gap in the material. Therefore, 
it is believed the label on Volume VI is simply incorrect; 
it should have been labeled Volume V. 
The OS Oswald subject file was reviewed by the HSCA in 
1978; however, it was not stored with the rest of the 
sequestered material. There is no documentation on why this 
file was not incorporated into the sequestered collection 
held by the DO; eight boxes of non-Oswald OS files were in 
the collection. The Oswald Security File has been reviewed, 
declassified, and released to NARA. 
(b) There has been considerable interest over the years in 
locating any electronic surveillance tapes that would have 
been made during the period that Oswald visited Mexico (26 
September - 2 October 1963). A thorough search has been 
conducted of the D0's record system as ~ell as the index to 
retired records in an attempt to locate any tapes and/or 
find documentation to resolve their disposition. We have 
discussed this issue with operational experts and their 
