13-ooooo· 
:ApR 15 '97 0s:01PM ~T P.8/14 
SECRET 
• Subject: en Employees 
substitution-for the true name be used. Xf the Review Board 
is concerned about tracking particular employees thro-µghout .r. 
the records, a particular identifying substitution can be 
used for a particular employee.' . 
20. (S) C:µl.believes that this approach will not 
undermine the Review Board's. ob~igations under the JFK Act. 
A review of the JFK Collection reveals that approximately 84 
·of the 600 names appear only once in the entire Collection. 
In such cases, it is difficult to see how the individuals• 
identity can add anything of significance to the historical 
- record; yet there may be some security concerns· still • 
associated with these individuals. For example,CArthur~liJ 
~timso~retired under cover and is currently living in 
Europe. When the CIA notified him that his name appeared in 
the JFX Collection and was subject-to public release, he 
told CIA that lie was_ opposed to having his name released ~d 
believed such a release could pose personal and security 
probl~. Furthermore, he could not understand why his name 
even appeared in.the Collection, since he had no 
recollection of being involved in anything related to the 
assassinatibn. 
21. (S) ·With regard to the approximately 500 names 
that appear more than once in the Collection, the vast 
majority of these individuals played almost no role in the 
·JFK sto~. One example of this is former DO officer 
(AT~nd~ ara.skol His name· appears approximately 20-30 
times:in_ the Collection siij}ly because he signed off on name 
trace· requests. Mr. ~rasko was -a covert CIA employee and • • 
retir~d under cover. The public release of his name would 
provide the public with no additional significant 
information about JFK. (tom-Flore~ is another example of a 
covert CIA employee whose name appears in the C ection but 
has little or no.connection to the JFK story. Flores 
retired under cover, is living in South America, an objects 
to the release of his name. Mr.(Flqre~ recent letter to 
_CIA is also attached for your convenience. 
22. (S) The Agency, of course, recognizes that some 
names may be particularly important· to the JFK story 
regardless of how frequently or infrequently they appear in 
the Collection. One such example is former COS Mexico 
Winston Scott who CIA has acknowledged as a CIA employee. 
In such cases, the CIA will continue to work with the Review 
Board for an appropriate resolution. The CIA proposes that 
the Review Board and its staff identify those individuals 
whom it believes are important to the JFK story and whose 
names should be released to the public. These names would 
carry a presumption of release unless specific evidence is 
provided to the Review.Board that harm wou!d likely result 
7 
SECRET 
