\ 
-14-
of State U. 0,Alexis Johnson: 
2. . . . you are now authorized to inform discreetly 
the Chilean military through the channels available 
to you that if a successful effort is made to block 
Allende from taking office, .we would recOnsi<ler the 
cuts we have thus far been forced to make in Chilean 
MAP and otherwise increase our presently programmed 
MAP for the Chilean Armed Forces.... If any steps 
the military should take should result in civil dis­
order, we would also be prepared promptly to deliver 
support and material that might be immediately re-
quired. (Hqs. to Stn. 075517, 7 October 1970) 
The essential difference be.tween Tracks I and II, .as evidenced by 
instructions to Ambassador Korry during this period, was not that Track 
II was coup-oriented and Track I was not. Both had this objective in 
mind. The difference between the two track&.. was, simply, that the CIA' s 
direct contacts with the Chilean military, and its active promotion and 
support for a coup, were to be known only to a small group of individuals 
in the White House and the CIA. Kissinger testified that Track II 
matters were to be reported directly to the White House •11 for reasons 
of security .. " (Kissinger testimony, p. 14) Thomas Karamessines, the 
CIA's Deputy Director for Plans at the time and the principal CIA 
contact with the White House on Track II matters, testified on his 
understanding of why State, Defense, the 40 Committee and Ambassador 
Korry were excluded rrom Track II: 
That was not a decision that we made. But the 
best I can do is suggest that there was concern· 
about two things. Number one, that there might 
be serious objections lodged, fo"r example, by 
the State Department particularly if Track 2 
were to be laid out at a Forty Committee meeting. 
~And the only other thing I can contribute to that 
is that it was felt that the security of the 
activity would be better protected if knowledge 
of it were limited. (Karamessines testimony, p. 122) 
Hlf-50955 Docid.:32423525 Page 88 
,. 
' 
-
