, NARCOTICS 
;_e orrranization has 
the Inst 10 yeai:s. 
,111 the fact that m 
ed persons lrnv)ng 
-n who were actmg 
:as been heavy tele-
1 and the Blackburn 
,randum "·as found 
,10 Lazzara, Salva­
·•raffic:rnte, ,Jr.-and 
• lamingo Bars, both 
J 
.• Conntv bv a State 
:('.C, resulted in the 
,zo and another per-
: h gave s"·on: state­
·y were work.mg for 
-,l by agents of t)10 
1 he Orlando Police 
re were six persons 
, nd Sam Cacciatore. 
::,nford, Fla.., by the 
Police Department, 
,_ T:trlan Blackburn's, 
there ,ms the phone 
Cacciatore, and tho 
employing Stefano 
least three murders 
. ry operations in the 
-~e lottery opcmtions 
, .. se gambling l!onscs: 
-.\'here Frank I• en:cn 
the house was dorng 
111s about GO pcrcci1t. 
·:here Armando R10s 
tc, were arrested re-
• y estimated gross of 
1pp1ying there1 
. ," this means after 
,,•rcent 1 
t other opera.ting ex­
. t clephone bills. 
ORGANIZED CRL\lE AND ILLICIT THAFFIC rn NARCOTICS 531 
The latest raid, in ,July of this year, indicated a gross revenue of 
$250,000 per week. 
From those figures--
The CIIAIRJIAN. \Vhcre was that raid? 
Mr. BRANCH. That was in Sanford, Fla., jnst 17 miles north of 
Orlando. These figures are establishe<l by the Internal Revenue agents 
and auditors. • . 
From them figures, it is ea,:y to see ,yJiy the l\fafia has moved so 
heavily into lottery gambling in central Florida and why gambling 
nwenues are universally acknowledge<l to be the "lifeblood" of orga-
nized crime. • • 
Any additional legislation that this subcommittee can promote to 
further restrict and inhibit gambling will, in our opinion, be a sub­
stantial blow to organized crime. 
Senator l\Iurnrn. I);d they actually pay off on those lotteries or 
was it dishonest in that respect, too? 
l\fr. Bu.men. Usually they pay off. 
They don't pay off ,rhPn we pnll a raid 011 them or arrest them. 
They stop at that. But they arc in operation tlie next week. 
The Crurnm1.N. You mean they do not pay off for that day? 
l\fr. HnA xcn. No, sir; they don't. 
The Cn.-,nnrAN. It is unfortunate for the fellow that won, who 
cannot get his winninf!S. 
Mr. HnAxcn. Yes,sir. 
Thank you, sir. 
The C1urn:\IAN'. If the law enforccrnent is pretty vigilant, I would 
Le afrnicl to place a bet unrler those circumstances. 
All right, Chief, if you will, you may proceed. 
Stand by, Scrf~ant,_ns we may want to ask you some questions. 
Mr. Bn,\xcu. r cs, sir. . 
TESTIMONY OF NEIL G. BROWN-Resumed 
Mr. Bnowx. To lmdt>rstand the crime network Traficante operates 
it is necessary to examine the modern era of crime in Tampa, which 
t~ntes from the Parly rn11rs. Its most. violent episodes "·ere between 
rn:i7 and lDiG, when the s·:cilian lllldrrworld 1\"HS attempting to move 
in on all il!Pgal gambling in Tampa. This period in the history of our 
city was refrrred to as "the era of bloorl." 
::Senator lfusKIE. 1Vho coined that phrase, the gang or the news­
papers? 
1\fr. Hnow:-.r. I think it wns the nc,n;papcrs, Senator. 
During the rn2o·s, uefore the ~icili,m undenrnrld mored into 1he 
rackets to any great extent, one of our most notorious residents, Charles 
~L \Vall, started his rise to_ bPcome the acknowledged boss of most of 
tlio illPgal gambling in the T:unpa and central are:t of the State of 
Florida. He styled himself "clean of the uncforworld," and in H)j;) he 
admitted to a Hillsborough County solicitor. tlrnt he had made his liv­
ing from illegal gamhlillg. During rn is, \Vall forfeited his leadership 
by entering into a partnership with Santo Tr:tf!icante, Sr. 
The elder Trafficante was born in Sicily in 188H. He came to Tampa 
Hl04 and became a nnturnlizecl citiz0n in l!J'25. In H);iO, lw was one 
the missing witnesses in the Kefam·er crime hearings held in 
Tampa. He died on August 11, lUiH. Police records do not sho,v any 
. nrrest for Santo Trall1cante, Sr. . 
•• In 1V52, Wall declared that he was retiring, although he did not 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 671 
-----------· --- ~~--~---- .. -·-~---.._ 
