.:. 
[ 
' I 
107I - K SECTIO:; SECURITY IlH'ORMA:HTS .AND COr,.,MTIAL SOURCES 
2. Comrnunicatic,ns - use of symbols 
a. After Bureau is adYised of the permanent symbol, in subsequent ( 
oom."llunications true name of infc,rmant sh-ould not be set forth; use 
symbol number. 
b. In all oommunica.tio:ns after the initial letter, Bureau and f:i.eld 
office file numbers for inform;mt must be set forth. 
o. In communications between offices, the same procedure is to be 
follo'l'ied. 
a. Informants t.nd souroes entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division _on 
temporary basis for Bureau business or for personal reasons 
should be referred to in initial letter to interestdd office 
by true name E'.nd symboi number if it is necessary for the other 
division to know the identity of the informant. Office receiving 
such letter should make appropriate index cards and place same 
in "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" inde.x. Subsequent 
letters between interested offices may th.en identify individual 
by symbol number only. 
(2) Individuals who leave the division where they have been furnishing 
information and do not plan to return should b·e imraediately 
disconi;inued, thei.r symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name should be used in all administrative 
correspondence. 
(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and remains 
active, his identity must still be protected. 
e. In communications, the teletype abbreviation for the field office, 
symbol, and leti;er suffix "S" shall be shown to identify ·the informant; 
e . g. ; 111'.'Y 000-S." 
f. In com.~unications concerning a potential securii;y informant, the 
name of the potential security informant and abbreviation "P~I" 
shall be used; e.g., 11John Doe, PSI." 
g. Similarly, in communica·tions relative to confidential sources, the 
abbreviation "CS" should be used; e.g., "Richard Roe; CS. 11 
h. When symbol num~ers are assigned to potential security informants, 
the designation should be as follows: "LA 000-PSI." -
·i. In communications relative to a confidential source having a permanent 
symbol number, the following should be used: 11CS LA 000-S." 
j. In espionage and foreign nationality matters the caption of the 
communica·liion should show in addition a character and the country 
designation (i.e., IS - R for Russia or'IS - PO for Poland, etc.). 
This facil~~ates routing lhe mail at ~he Bureau. 
J . • INDEXIlW 
True names and aliases of all informants; as well.as the cover name 
assigned to them for informants' use in submitting their statements, i. 
2. 
but not their permanent Bureau symbol numbers, shall be indexed in 
the general office indices in the same manner as any other name. 
These index cards should show the file number of the informant and 
such terms as "Informant 11 or "Potential Security Informantn shall not 
appear • 
- K. INDICES 
l. Alphabetical name index and symbol .nQmber·index , 
a. Alphabetical name index •. - • 
(lJ In ali offices al~ active.potential security and security 
informant cards are to be kept by the SAC, ASAC, or security 
supervisor consistent with maximum security and best admin­
istrative practice. This is to be known as the alphabetical 
name index, 
(2) File these cards in alphabetical order and also include cards 
for security· confidential sources. These cards should show 
whether the indiYidual is a potential informant~ an informant, 
or a confidential source furnishing information on security 
matters. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1406 
14 
5-12-61 
i 
i 1 
j 
r 
. i 
