- 5 -
government personnel, as well as conduct by private citizens having no relation 
to the~U.S. goveinment; In iddition, subsection (a), dealing with conspiracies 
within the United States; applies to "any other person," whether or not a United 
States citizen. Noncitizens who conspire within the United States to assassi­
nate a foreign official clearly come wit~in- the jurisdiction of U.S. law.' Sub-
sections (b) through (d), which deal with conduct outside the United States, apply 
to U.S. citizens, and to officers or employees of the United States, whether or. 
not they are citizens. Criminal liability for conduct outside the United States 
of persons who are not U.S. citizens or··who do not hold a position as a officer 
or employee of the United States ate matters for the law of the place where such 
conduct takes place. 
The term "foreign official" is defined· in subjection (d) (2). The defini-
i k i 1 h h ff b i d h h h ff~l, t on ma es t c ear t at t e o ense may e comm tte even t oug t e o icia , ._;_,____ 
belongs to an insurgent force, an unrecognized government, or a non-governmental 
political party. Our investigation -- as well as the .reality of international 
politics -- has shown that officials in such organizations are potential tar_ggts 
foi assassination.*/ 
The offenses are limited to conduct aimed at such persons because of their 
official duties or status, or their political views, actions, or statements. Thus, 
for example, a conspiracy to kill or the killing of a foreign official, which is 
not politically moti~ated would not be punishable tinder this statute. 
The definition of official in section (d) (2) also provides that such per­
son must be an official of a foreign government or movement •iwith which the 
United States is not at war dr against which the United States Armed Forces have 
'!:_/For example, Lumumba was not an official of the Congolese government at the 
time of the plots against his life, and Trujillo, though the dictator, held no 
official governmental position in the latter period of his regime. 
mt 50955 Docld.: 32423.')39 Page .".i66 
