t 
I 
[ 
( 
NW 38321 
sr I°" e1. SECURITY INVESTI"'-TIOJ ... ·87E 
{3} Interviews of active communists should be conducted at secure 
place other than subject's residence or place of employment. 
If.reasonable effort has been made for such approach and it is 
•not practical, set forth circumstances and request Bureau au­
thority to make contact at home or place of business explain­
ing any need to contact employer. Letter should ·contain state­
ment that,. if subject appears cooperative, arrangements will 
be made for another interview at secure place away from resi­
dence or employment, if necessary, to determ~ne fully degree of 
cooperation. . 
(4} If subject cooperat~ve upon initial contact,.further contact 
may be had without Bureau authority. No limitation on nurnb~r 
of reco·ntacts, but use good judgment. If interview authorized 
.by Bureau, advise Bureau of results of contact and plans for 
recontacts. Obtain specific authority to make recontact where 
circumstances indicate delicate situation and greater than usual 
risks involved, such as labor leaders and .individuals employed 
in educational, mass media, religious, and pµblishing fields. 
(5} Terminate interview with active subversive if third person 
arrives during interview. Furnish Bureau details and .obtain 
Bureau authority prior to reinterview. 
(6) Terminate interview immediately if subject is hostile or 
uncooperative. 
(7} Inform subjects connected with labor unions that Burea:u is not 
interested in employee-employer relations and is concerned only 
with infiltration of labor unions by subversive elements. 
Furnish no information and make n.o statements to embarrass 
·Bureau. O.uestions should require•admission or denial by subject 
of all pertinent items of subversive information unless to do 
so would expose investigative techniques or security informants. 
Cordial and friendly attitude alone is not evidence of coopera­
tion· insofar as potential dangerousness is concerned when subject 
fails to admit or verify subversive information obtained through 
previous investigation. 
(8) If cooperative, inform subject we want to interview him in . 
detail and arrange interviews over extended period if necessary 
to exploit subject's knowledge to utmost. Conduct necessary 
investigation or research to corroborate and develop information 
received. 
(9) Where appropriate, reduce information obtained to-signed state­
ment and determine his willingness to testify to information fur­
nished if needed in Federal proceedings. 
h. Reporting results of interview 
(1) When no information is developed during interview which would 
affect subject' s[ADEX]status, promQtlY submi.t results by letter 
and include in next report[or LHM0 J If individual is employed 
in or holds sensitive position in trade-union, educational, mass 
media, religious, or publishing fields, results of all inter-
• vie\\TS must be submitted promptly in report or LHM, [except where 
subject is developed as]security informant or source. 
(2) Report subject's admissions of his subversive activities and • 
associations and indicate whether he did or did not furnish 
information regarding subversive activities of others .. 
(3) Report[any]statements by subject denying subversive activities 
and follow with concise statement of such activity[as shown by 
prior investigation.] 
(4) Letter transmitting results of interview must contain: 
(a) Conclusion of inte~viewing Agents as to cooperativeness of 
subject and reasons for conclusion . 
(b) Statement as to whether information furnished coincides 
substantially with other available information 
Page 192:9 
29 
4-13-72 
.1 
I i 
l : "i 
I 
-j 
i i 
I 
I 
f I 
I 
I 
I ! 
! i 
l 
; • i 
J 
f 
! 
I i 
I l 
t 
I 
