14-00000 
) d. Memorandum for Deputy Director of Security dated 
1 November 1960 from M. D. Stevens, subject: 
American Defectors 
V 
.L 
e. Handwritt路en chart of de路fectors dated 26 August 
1961 
f. Defector outline prepared in October 1961 listing 
known defectors to the USSR; Red China, Cuba, and 
United Arab Republic. 
5. The index reference to the Defectors File 
identifies a list dated 13 September 1966 which was known as 
the 路Defector Machine Listing. This listing was a computer 
printout of defectors and provided limited biographic data 
on each name. This listing was maintained separately from 
the actual Defectors File; notations within the Defectors 
File show the Defector Machine Listing as permanently 
charged to the Security Analysis Group of the Office of 
Security. Efforts to locate this listing or determine its 
disposition have been unsuccessful. 
6. Information regarding the purpose of the Defectors 
File was gleaned from a quick review of selected holdings. 
路An employee of this Off ice was, recalls the Defector Machine 
Listing as being approximately one and one-ha1f inches thick 
and in two parts. One part consisted of an a1phabetical, 
index of defector names with assigned numbers. The second 
part listed the assigned nwnbers in numerical order and 
contained the limited biographic data on each name. 
7. The subject file pertaining to Lee Harvey Oswald 
(#0351164) was established circa 1960. It appears this file 
was created as a separate repository for the numerous press 
clippings and reports received from other government 
agencies on the qefection of Lee Harvey Oswald to the USSR 
and his activities following his return to the"United 
States. The first volume of this file appears to have been 
preserved as the pre-assassination file. and the documents 
contained in this file are as foll9ws: ~ 
a. Department of State telegram #1304 from Moscow 
dated 31 October 1959 
b. The Washington Post press clipping dated 
1 November 1959 entitled ~Ex-Marine Asks Soviet 
Citizenship" 
3 
