• 
You may soon be sent to Vietnam. You have heard about the w~ in the news· .• 
you·r office.rs will ·give you· pep talks about it. But you probably feel as confused and 
uncertain as most Americans do .. Many people will tell you to just follow orders 
and leave the thinking to others. Bu~ you have the right to know as much about this 
war as anyone. Aft,er all,_ it's you-:-not your congressman-. -who might get killed. 
- - - • .& • I • • 
WHY ARE WE FIGHTING IN VIETNAM? 
We are supposed to be fighting to protect 
democracy in Vietnam, and yet our own gov-: 
ernment admits that South Vietnam is run by 
a dictatorship. General Ky, the latest mili­
tary ·dictator, is as bad as they come. In a 
recent interview he said: ''People ask me 
who my heroes are. I have only one -- Hit­
ler. I admire Hitler because he pulled his 
you as their enemy. You are the ones bomb­
ing their towns. They· don't know whether 
you're a draftee or a volunteer, whether 
you're for the war or against it; but they're 
. not taking any chances either. 
FREE ELECTIONS 
· couritry together when it was in a terrible 
state." (LondonSundayMirror, July4, 1965). 
The Vietnamese would like to vote the for­
eigners out of their country, but they have 
-been denied the chance. According to the 
Geneva Agreement of 1954, there were sup­
posed to be elections throughout Vietnam in 
1956.. B.lt the U. S, government was certain 
that our man in Vietnam, Premier Diem, 
would lose. So we decided not to allow any 
election until we w·ere sure we could win. 
Diem set up a political police force and put 
all political opposition -- Communist and 
anti- Communist -- in jail. By 1959, it was 
clear there weren't going to be any elections, 
and the guerillas known as the Viet Cong be­
gan to fight back. By 1963 our government 
wasfedup with Diem, but still wasn't willing 
to risk elections. Our CIA helped a group of 
Vietnamese generals to overthrow Diem and 
kill him. Since then there have been a series 
of "better" military dictators. General Ky -­
the man who admires Hitler -- is the latest 
one. 
General Ky doesn't mean much to us; we 're 
not even sure how to pronounce his name, but 
the South Vietnamese have lived under men 
like him for years. As far as the· Vietnamese 
are concerned, we are fighting on the side of 
Hitlerism; and they hope we lose. 
'WHO IS THE ENEMY? 
U.S. military spokesmen have often said 
that their greatest problem is finding the ene­
my. The enemy, they say, is everywhere. 
The old woman feeding her chickens may have 
a stock of hand grenades in her hut. The lit­
tle boy who trails alter the American sol­
diers during the day slips out to give informa­
tion to the guerillas at night. The washer­
woman at the American air base brings a bomb 
to work one day. It is impossible, say the 
military, to tell which are the Viet Cong and 
which are the civilians. 
And so, because the whole Vietnamese peo­
ple seem to be the enemy, the military is 
taking no chances. They use tear gas -- a 
weapon designed for use against civilians. 
They order American troops to fire at women 
andchildren -- because women and children, 
after all, ar,e firing at American troops. Am­
erican fighter planes destroy civilian villages 
with napalm; American B-52's are flattening 
whole regions. That is why the war in Viet- -
nam is so often called a "dirty war." 
When the South Vietnamese people see you 
in your foreign uniform, they2,'g~ think of 
. FIGHTING FOR DEMOCRACY 
Your job as a soldier is suppc ·.;ed to be "to 
win the people of South Vietnam." Win them 
to what -- democracy? No, we keep military 
dictators in power. What then? The Ameri­
can way of life? B.lt why should they care 
any more about our way of life than we care 
about theirs? We can't speak their language 
or even pronounce _their names. We don't 
lmow anything about their religion or even 
what it is. We never even heard of Vietnam 
until Washington decided to run it. 
- You are supposed· to be fighting "to s::i vc 
the Vietnamese people from Communism. " 
Certainly Communist influence is very stronr~ 
All Previous Editions Obsolete 
11 ••I r .-
_ vnr_.,~~!"-'111:7-1_ _________________________ _ 
NW Docld:34530150 Page JO 
