.. ,. 
•· 
SECRET. 
I 
Memorandum from M. 'v. Hale to Mr. s .. M" Mcweeney Re: senate Select Cormuittee on·Intelligence (SSCI) 
Request to Discuss the O~fice of Liaison and 
Intemational Affairs (OLIA) and the 
Counterintelligence Situation in West Berlin 
DETAILS CONTINUED: 
I 
As an aside, Mr. Eliff indicated that Allan Kornblum, 
Office of I_ntelligence Policy and Review, Department of Justice, 
had visited West Berlin on two occasions and was conversant with 
this u. s. military monitoring issue. 
Mr. Eliff also stated that he further supported an FBI 
presence in West Berlin in that his study of the . • 
counterintelligence venue in that city indicated to him that the 
many double agent cases run by the u. s. military there were run 
for parochial reasons with no strategic view of counterintelligence. He stated that even though the u. s. 
military services were professional and did coordinate the 
tumover of some of their many double agents to the FBI when these agents are rotated back to domestic assigmnent, he believed 
the FBI should have input at the outset of these double agent 
.cases insofar as the double agent technique was a fundamental counterintelligence tool which demanded consultation with·the 
principle counterintelligence service, the FBI, at their 
inception in order to better globally· address counterintelligence issues. . . . 
• He stated he believed FBI presence in West Berlin would 
therefore be necessary if the u. s. were to have a coherent 
national counterintelligence strategy., 
Mr. Eliff concluded by reiterating his support for the 
FBI's presence in West Berlin, by indicating that he would be willing, were we to ask, to indicate his support of this position 
to the USDS, the u. s. military and the CIA as well as Mr. Jeff 
Smith, Chief Staffer for Senator Sam Nunn, the latter also well 
versed in counterintelligence issues and a potential strong 
supporter of the FBI1s cause. 
Messrs L'Allier, Hooks, and Hale thanked Mr. Eliff for 
his time and indicated that the FBI had designated a new 
assistant Legal Attache in Bonn whose function would largely be 
to travel weekly to West Berlin in order to prepare the FBI1s 
case for a permanent presence there. 
SECRET 
-4-
.. " 
