( 
.., 
I • 
a. 
SECTION 107, SIURITY TI!FORMAIITS[fJ<D CONFIDENT. SOURCES] 107N 
f. If the informant receives from outside employment less than[$4800,] 
all of whioh is subject to Social Security tax, the amount on which· 
he will have to report for Social Security tax purposes, if he com­
pletes a schedule C, is the difference between the amount received 
from regular employment ·and[ $4800.] 
g. If informant completes a schedule C, the nature of business of the 
self-employed must be stated and informants should be instructed to 
use ~s the nature of self-employment any applicable occupation with­
out revealing connection with the Bureau. 
Stipulation re pa~nents made to witnesses 
a. In trials in which informa.nts, former informants, or other persons who 
were paid sums of money are prospective witnesses, the Bureau must 
furni'sh the Department t~.bulations of payments· made to such prospective 
witnesses. The office handling prosecution must determine from the 
departmental attorneys what individuals are to be used as witnesses, 
- Thereafter the office should furnish and/or cause other appropriate 
offices to furnish to the Bureau the following information: 
l
ll The correct, full name 
2 . All aliases, code names, and symbol numbers 
3 The first date of contact by your office 
4 If first contact was prior to September, 1944, ,the names of all 
S.As, S.AC·s, and ASA Cs v1ho contacted and may have made payments 
(5) A tabulation of all payments, broken down as to the amount appli­
cable to services and the amount applicable to expenses 
(6) ·.A listing of any advances, refunds, and outstanding balances of 
.advances 
(7
8
) The date of last contact by your office 
{ ) Whether the individual has been oontacted by any other office 
• b. Each individual and each item of information must be accounted for. 
If no contact was made with a particular indiYidual, the Bureau must 
be so advised. 
o. Where an informant has previously been used a.nd a tabulation of pay­
ments was prepared, information for items (5) through {8) need be given 
only from the date of the last trial from which the individual was 
used. 
d. The abo-v-e information should be submitted aeparate and apart from 
correspondence setting forth derogatory information, and should be 
addressed to the attention of the Administrative Division, Voucher 
Unit.- Interdivisional correspondence should be addressed to the 
Bureau with copies designa·l;ed for ·i;he interested offices. 
Receipt of unemployment compensation 
• a. At times security informants and/or sources temporarily lose their jobs 
with private industry due to strikes, economic conditions, or similar 
circumstances. As a result they become eligible for unemplo~nent 
comP.ensa1;ion. Where unemployment regulations require listing of all 
sources of income as a prerequisite for obtaining unemployment 
compensation and security informants and/or sources who at the time 
are being paid by the Bureau for serYices rendered fail to comply, 
the situ~.tion is potentially embarrassing. '£he Bureau c~nnot lrn 
placed in the position of condoning a Violation of the state law on 
the part of any informant or source. En.ch field office must determine 
from state unemploynent compensation officials effect of unemployment 
compensation laws on paid. informants and/or sources. Depending on 
local requirements, informants and sources must be alerted accordingly . 
. b. Whenever a paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed or has 
knowledge of impending unemployment, discuss n.11 facts with him and 
s1.t1Jmit obser-vt>.tions ana recommendations to Bureau. Unless aclvised 
to the contrary by the Bureau, follow recommended action. l:c1.ch 
offioe.must assume the responsibility of guarding against informantts 
accepting a Bureau paymen·t that would conflict with unemployment 
oompensn.·~ion laws • .At the same time, weigh seriously the possible 
need f_or an informant to apply and accept unemployment compensation to 
21 
2-12-:-{30 
