13-00000 
......... -v ...... .., • .,, 
-7-
and the circumstances surrounding the creation of records. It is Important that an 
agency with supervisory responsibility over declassification have the authority to obtain 
the infonnation It needs to accomplish its work. 
Third, as with the referral process, a frequent bottleneck in the declassification. 
process is the final transfer of records from the declassifying agency to the National 
Archives. An independent entity responsible for supervising this process should have 
the authority and responsibility of guaranteeing that once the declassification process is 
complete, the final step of making records available to the public is taken. 
• Fourth, although the start-up process is very time-consuming, It Is a necessary 
prelude to more efficient and productive work. The start-up time for the Review Board, 
as I understand is also the case for lnteragency Security Classification ·Appeals Panel 
(ISCAP), required education not only of the Board and staff, but also of the agencies. It 
is jmportant that any _future planning of an endeavor of this nature take Into account the 
initial costs and, importantly, take advantages of the lessons leamed by the Review 
Board. The initial cost can be recuperated in the long run. 
' 
When an independent agency, such as the Review Board, has the authority to 
set the agenda (by establishing timetables), sponsor joint declassification sessions, 
require the production of evidence, and ensure the prompt transfer of declassified 
records from the agencies to the National Archives, declassification CIP) be a success. 
I strongly urge this Commlttee-totake·advantag,rofthtfln·omenfum created.by the JFK 
Act and by ISCAP, and create an authority that will be able to bring Independence, 
consistency, and energy to the process of making the government more open and 
accountable to the people who have paid for It. 
IV. Recommendations for Making S. 712 More Effective 
With regard to S. 712, I wish to summarize the following recommendations that 
have been offered either ~xpllcHly or lmpllcltly In the testimony above: •• 
First, the entity responsible for overseeing the declassification process (which, in 
the current version of the S. 712, is the National Declassification Center), must be 
genuinely independent of the agencies whose records It oversees. The Center should 
be staffed by persons who are both sensitive to the genuine secrets of the agencies, 
but who also are skeptical and demanding of proof. 
Second, the independent entity should nave the power to set reasonable 
timetables by which an agency must complete the declassification review (or referral 
review). The Independent entity should be empowered to release infonnation on its 
own authority if agencies do not comply with reasonable timetables. The independent 
agency should additlonally be empowered to obtain information from the agencies that 
faJ 008 
