( 
.( 
( 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS~ Al~D PUBLIC CONTACTS 
[A. PRESS POLICY 
lo Confidential Nature of FBI Operations 
See Part I, Section 1, page 9, paragraph_ B of Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
2 •. Title 28, Section 50.2 of the Code of Federal Regulations concerning 
release of information by personnel of the Department of Justice 
relating to criminal and civil proceedings states: 
11(a) General •. (1) The availability to news media of information in 
criminal and civil cases is a matter which has become increasingly a 
subject of concern in the administration of justiceo The purpose of 
this statement is to formulate specific guidelines for the release of 
such information by personnel of the Department of Justiceo 
6A 
11 (2) While the release of information for the purpose of influencing a 
trial is, of course, always improper, there are valid reasons for making 
available to the public information about the administration of the law. 
The task of striking a fair balance between the protection of individuals 
accused of crime.or involved in civil proceedings with the Government 
and public understandings of the problems of controlling crime and 
administering government depends largely on the exercise of sound judg­
ment by those responsible for administering the law and by representa­
tives of the press and other mediao 
11(3) Inasmuch as the Department of Justice has generally fulfilled 
its responsibilities with awareness and understanding of the competing 
needs in this area, this statement, to a considerable extent, reflects 
and formalizes the standards to which representatives of the Department 
have adhered in the past. Nonetheless, it will be helpful in ensuring 
uniformity of practice to set forth the following guidelines for all 
personnel of the Department of Justice. 
11(4) Because of the difficulty and importance of the questions they 
raise, it is felt that some portions of the matters covered by this 
statement, such as the authorization to make available Federal con­
viction records and a description of items seized at the time of arrest, 
should be the subject of continuing review and consideration by the 
Department on the basis of e~-perience and suggestions from those within 
and outside the Department. 
"(b) Guidelines to criminal actions. (1) These guidelines shall 
apply to the release of information to news media from the time a 
person is the subject of a criminal investigation until any proceeding 
resulting from such as investigation has been terminated by trial or 
otherwiseo 
11 (2) At no time. shall personnel of the Department of Justice furnish 
any statement or information for the purpose of influencing the out-
come of a defendant's trial, nor shall personnel of·the Department 
furnish any statement or information, which could reasonably be expected 
to be disseminated by means of public communication, if such a statement 
or information may reasonably.be expected to influence the outcome of 
a pending or future trial. 
11(3) Personnel of the Department of Justice, subject to specific limita­
tions imposed by law or court rule or order, may make public the follow­
ing information: 
1 
2-27-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 230 
