. . :-j • ·.l 
.j , 
... ,_: .. • :.._ .. , ... .... • ······-. 
~ Betsy palmer 
File Review Manuel Ray y Rivero, Volumes I - XVIII 
Volume XVIII - March 1965 -----------
May 2, 1978 
111.10853 
1. Memo dtd 18 November 1965 to: United states Secret Service 
From: Deputy- Director for Plans 
SUbJect: Ray, Rivero, Ma.nu.el Antonio aka: Ray, Manolo 
In re61)0nse. to a telephonic request of 15 Nov. 1969 f'or a name trace 
on Ray~ CIA files contain voluminous inf'o:nnation from sources of 
varying relia.bili ty re: Ray w'ho is well known to Intell1gence Community . 
as a prominent anti-Castro Cuban exile leader and.head of JURE. If par­
ticular info is desired, please specify. 
2. Memo dtd 6 Dec 1965 to Secret Service from DD/P gives 2 1/2 page 
sta.trlard bio info:nnation on Ray. 
3. Memo dtd 15 Dec 1965 to Commissioner, ms f'rom DD/P 
SUbJect: Roige Cerezo:, Jose 
(A 12 399 9'23 TC) 
According to CIA files, information d td Aug 1963 from a Cuban emigree source, 
Roige was designated chief of intelligence by National Direction Abroad of 
JURE. • Source said intelligence group creaeed. in Marc~ 1963 on orders of 
Manuel Ray for purpose of infiltrating JURE members into various organizations 
vhich operated in Miami area, as well as into agencies of U.S. govt. Further, 
that in April 1963, Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a JURE member into CIA 
in order to learn details of plans regarding Cuba. JURE also intended to 
drop leaflets into Cuba of a derogatory nature regarding U.S. govt. In-
cluded in these leaflets was Subject's manifesto against the U.S. govt and 
against this Agency. 
. .- . . 
4. :Ltr: <ltd June 2, 1966 from Dr. Julian Gallo to Harry (Mahoney?) 
Gallo is contact with Ra.yin Puerto Rico and trying to discover the names 
·'"-of Ray's· contacts in Cuba. Ray, apparently is seeking a Mexican visa from 
Gallo and unhappy that it did not come t~ugh. Refused to reveal names 
or addresses to Gallo and -would not give information about vhere his radio 
_broadcast tapes were to be sent for transmission into Cuba. 
5. Memo f'or the Record, dtd 21 June 1966 from Charles .Amerson 
Met with Ray on 28 April 1966. Anderson said in general Ray had less 
. information on the "purge situation that I did.~' Ray said relatives 
of Gustavo Arcos in P.R. had telephone contact with Arcos family in Cuba, 
about 25 April and that Arcos still in prison but charges against him 
were thin. " ( This means there vas at least one more telephone call than 
ve knew of previously, and this has probably served to increase the pressure 
on Arcos)." Anderson tells of his concern and strong interest in Arcos on 
the chance that Ray might assume Arcos had been CIA agent. Doesn't knov 
if Ray will construe remark this way but it seemed like an opening "to use 
an important exile channel as a possible deception mechanism." 
• • "I believe that later in the sunnner it might be a good idea to have 
another talk wi th(..AMB.ANG )to keep up with exile thinking, and feeding more 
deception thoughts." 
SECREY 
