52() ORGANIZED CRL\lE AND ILLICIT TRAFFIC IN NARCOTICS 
]Hr. BnowN. Yes, sir. 
The CnAIR1\IAN. Very well. And then Sergeant de la Llan:1, will 
you identify yourself, please, sir? 
Mr. DE LA LLANA. ,Jack de la Llana, Tampa, Police Department. I 
have been with the police department for!) years, and attached to .the 
homicide division for 4 years before starting the criminal intelligence 
'unit of the Tampa, Police Department. 
The CuAIRl'iIAN. Have you had previous police service~ 
Mr. DE LA LLANA. ]Hy first experience was D years ago, ,vhen I 
started first with the force. 
The CnAIRUAN. Chief Brown, do you have a statement, a prepared 
statement? 
l\fr. BnowN. Yes, I do, Senator. 
The CnAnorAN. I have a copy of it before me, and I see it has several 
pa.p:es. Do you wish to read all of it? 
1\fr. BnowN. Yes, sir; I would like to read it to the committee. 
The CHAIRllIAN. Very well, then, you may proceed. 
1\fr. BnowN. l\fr. Clrnirnrnn and members of the subcommittee, I am 
Neil G. Brown, chief of the Police Department of the city of Tampa, 
Fla. 
I have been a member of the Tampa Police Department for the past 
16 years, and I have been chief of the department for the past 4 years. 
Prior to my appointment as chief, I served as inspector of detectives. 
I am a &ra:duate of the National Police Academy of the Federal 
Bureau ot Investigation, and a member of the Tampa Bay Area Chiefs 
of Police Association and of the International Association of Chiefs 
of Police. 
'With me here today is Sgt. Jack <le la Llana who, at my direction, 
formed our department's first criminal intelligence unit in February 
,of Hl62, and has been its director since that time. Sergeant de la 
Liana also holds the important post of chairman of the Florida In- • 
telligcnce Unit, a statewide agency ,vhich coordinates information 
amongst intelligence units in cities throughout the State of Florida.. , 
In addition to Sergeant de la Llana, whose diligent work and know!• -
edge of criminal operations has provided much of the foundation for 
my statement to you, I feel fortunate in being accompnnied also by 
Sgt. William Branch of the intelligence division of the Orlando Police , 
Department. Sergeant Branch is presently attending the National 
Academy of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He has been a 
member of the Orlando Police Department since 1D51, and a detectin 
sergeant since 1!)56. He is particularly familiar with organized gnm• 
bling operations in the central Florida area, and I believe his presenta-
tion of that situation will be of material value to this inquiry. • 
I feel privileged to be able to testify before you today. I believe.'., 
that the facts I can present here about organized crime operations in • , 
Taml?a will help you nnd the American public realize the seriousnes ' 
of this problem, and our Nation's emergent need for further Federal • 
legislat10n to combat an evil that has clearly expanded beyond the ,, 
powers of municipal law enforcement to contain, suppress and elimi~, , 
nate it. 
n, who are con­si ~..,;.lj~~~~~ili"'6.""""'~a1i11,1,..w unity. Unfor,. 
tunately, a small percentage of this group of citizens have achiered 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 660 
ORGA 
a no~oriety , 
continuous 
~eople of ou 
the Mafia." 
Our 0 -row 
1D56 when , 
1, . ampa to iJ 
the Mafia wa 
grand jury's 1 
,. • • t.here • 
;,xists nnu ope; 
1he e1•idence P 
nesses interview 
element whose 1 
Mafia ns we und( 
The CnAIR1\ 
before the gr;; 
you the law en 
1\fr. BROWN. 
'.fhe Cuam11r 
existed in your c 
Mr. BROWN. 1 
been there 
'I'he Cn~um1r,\ 
were unable to Ii 
1\fr. BROWN T 
' The CnAIR;rM 
·, able ,to get it out i 
-· Mr. BRciwN T 
Tlie CHAI;ll~A'~ 
Mr. BnowN ( re: 
• • • our records i 
from underworld act 
T11e C1um 11fAN 
dny from the ci 
.. murders, ganglanc 
': years, and only 2 o 
i,.co11rtdeterminatio1 
···: ~fr. BROWN. Tha 
• . flie CHAIR1\fAN 
1tm~ us some idea a·b 
, . Mr. BnowN. I w 
,',1~~ Chicago. 
.. ::• I he Crum~IA"' ._ • 'f B ''• ' .;; ., r. ROWN • Yes -• 'I'! • , ; w C1unnuN ': 
, developments of \; 1 i 
just ronldn't be11· . " ,,, C e, p 
i)ll L i~ Hrst-degree f., 
f<!P0 11tan Chicaao 0 ~ 
• ui, solved. It thoro,; 
IIKl danger of orga.Hi; 
ThYou say: "1Vel1, t 
: . nt. may be true, but 
