-55-
• I. 
•'The, Commit tee does not have this new "marching order" in its possession. 
However, CIA officials from whom the Committee took testimony believed 
that there had been no such definitive end to Track II. It merely 
tapered off, to be replaced by a longer-term effort to effect a change 
of government in Chile. Karamessines' testimony was most explicit: 
Mr. Karamessines. I am sure that the seeds that 
~ere laid in that effort in 1970 had their impact 
in 1973. I do not have any question about that 
in my mind either. (Karamessines testimony, p. 26) 
*** Q. Was Track II ever formally ended? Was there 
a specific order ending it? 
Mr. Karamessines. As far as I was concerned, 
Track II was really never ended. What we were 
told to do in effect was, well, i\llende is now 
President. So Track II, which sought to prevent 
him from becoming President, was technically out, 
it was done. But what we were told to do was to 
continue our efforts. Stay alert, and to do what 
we could to contribute to the eventual achieve­
ment of the objectives and purposes of Track II. 
That being the case, I don't think it is proper 
to say that Track II was ended. 
(Ibid., pp. 128-129) 
When informed of Karamessines' testimony that Track II was never 
ended, Kissinger testified: 
The Chairman. Would you take issue with that, 
with the (Karamessines) testimony? 
Secretary Kissinger. Totally .... It is clear 
that ... after October 15th that there was no 
separate channel by the CIA to the White House 
and that all actions with respect to Chile were 
taken in the 40 Committee framework. There was 
no 40 Committee that authorized an approach to 
or contact with military people, no plots which 
I am familiar with, and all the covert operations 
in Chile after Allende's election by the Congress 
were directed towards maintaining the democratic 
opposition for the 1976 election. And that was 
the exclusive thrust, and if there was·any further\ 
contact with military plotting, it wa~:totally;' 
unauthorized and this is the first tha!t I have 
heard of it. (Kissinger testimony, pp. 75-77) 
mt 50955 Docld.: 32423.')39 Page 491 
i 
r 
r 
I 
I" 
I 
I 
l".::'.'t . 
;,· :~ .. · 
t·'. 
,...... 
