1 
Only a Hb-Hum urde; 
:· 
'I 
By Russell Baker: i: 
The gangsters Sam Giancanii and 
John Roselli who were associated 'With 
the C.I.A. in a scheme to dispatch 
• Fidel Castro have now both been mur• 
dered after discussing their CJ.A; en• • 
• terprise with the United States Senate, 
and the police have pronounced the 
inciderrts "gangland-style killings." 
The phrase "gangland-style killing" 
has the cozy resonance of "home-style 
cooking," perhaps because both sug• 
gest the Intimacy of hearth and fire 
with nobody but us family gathered 
round and nobody el~ welcome, Jack. 
These family affairs a.re, of course, 
meddled into by the constabulary, but 
rarely with much enthusiasm. : . 
This may be because police su
1
~ess 
at nabbing perpetrators of "garrgland• 
style killings" has never been such as 
to get them into the world series of 
detection, with the result that inces­
sant failure may have . dulled. their 
appetite for. the hunt. . . 1 
Or, • it may be because policemen 
believe the subjects of "gangland-style 
killings" aren't worth working over• 
time for. I don'.t know, arrd I certainly • 
don't mean to impute either languor, 
timidity or indifference to America's 
~orner greasy spoon can engage ln 
"hom~-style cooking." 
The one special requiremerTt Is a 
,·ictim who is a bona fide citizen of· 
gangland. Obviously, a. philandering 
·husband cannot do in a loyal wife of , 
40 years "gangland-style" and ~ 
the police not to lift an eyebrow. Un• 
less the subject is the rut ganglam 
thing,. it won't .work. . . . •• 
The corollary of· this fact' b that 
gangland people a.re peculiarly vu.Iner• 
able to "gangland-style" murder· by 
devious non-ganglanders, who have no 
• right to get away with it. • • 
This must be infuriating to them. 
Imagine that you are an • emlnerft,. 
statesman of gangland, and the vexa• 
tion becomes manifest. You are· en­
tirely prepared to be sent off '.'gang­
land-style" by your colleagues. 'fb~ 
are the rules of the land. • • • • 
Moreover, if they complete the job, 
you .wouldn't dream of telling the .J')O• 
lice who did it, even if you could. That 
would violate the rules of the sports• 
manship governing gangland. In gang•, 
•land, good· sports don't tell. • 
But to have some alien from • the 
outer world-'-some. straight~Jake COUS• 
in who. wants his. share of your will 
OBSERVER· . homicide squads. r simply point ~,ut 
that once a murder has been called 
"gangland-style," apprehension o(the prematurely, some barber who hates· 
perpetrator almost ,nvariably fai!S: to your sidebums-::--to have somebody like 
occur. • • • • • •. • · this do the job on you and get ii.way 
This raises the question whether with it because it's done "gangland• 
"gangland-style" murders might pos• style"..;...Ah, my friend; that must seem 
. sibly be catchirrg among people who a cruel injustice. • • • • • • 
don't come from· gangland .. o:>nsider • Such a bad: egg· as that you· would 
the Roselli case. The body is found· in surely betray to the cops. How .infuri• 
the customary barrel, with the cus• ating it would be. if they looked at the 
tomary weights, in the customary barrel, the concrete, the water, the 
water. It bears the customary bullet bullet holes and closed the case with 
holes. Roselli's publicized standing in a quietly murmured, "Just another 
gangland seems to leave an open-and• . gangland-style killing." • 
shut case, which the police will quietly You• will have been the victi~ • not 
shut as soon as possible.. only of murder, but also of di.scrimina• 
If you and I know this, reader, does. tion, for it is only your membership 
it l1'0t follow that it is also known by, in gangland that prevents the police 
let us say, some hot-tempered waiter from extending themselves: to bring 
whom Roselli has been•. consistently • . your persecutor to justice. ' • 
undertipping for years? . . • , ; • I· do not know . how policemerr feel 
If thait waiter wanted to take his • about nonmembers of gangland killing 
revenge and get away with it, is I it gangland· members .,gangland-style," 
not logical that he would do it "gan'g. • but my hunch ls • that • they take a 
land-style," so the police could forget sterner view of it than they do of 
it, rather than by. scalding Roselli to gangland men bumping·off each other. 
death in public with a tureen.of lo.bst~r· The average cop probably thinks it· is 
bisque? • • • : , . not the kind of thing decent people • 
This is not to suggest that the.police , · ought to be doing. 
ought to be giving Roselli's waiters • I know very well that gangland folks 
the third degree, but merely. to point • don't approve of it, and to make sure 
out that garrgland can have no monop• . • ;that there is no misunderstanding, I 
oly on "gangland-style killing." Any• : want to assure them that l haven't 
. body with a barrel, some concrete and •. •• tre heart to swat a fly, myself,. and, 
a capacious expanse 'of_ water ·can. ::what's more, I've never•tieen:8.Ily gQod 
. engage in,it, j!,Ult as readily as your , with concrete. • • • • . . .~ . ·.• .. ,,: . . ":·.<-.:··;. · ... i·~ •• 
,.....: 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 461 
~ I ?-il / 7. L_. 
l ~ .l ( l')~ 
1~. 
L. 
-
.... 
