13-00000 
• • ... ''""'~ffl~~;?~r,:>:'.·:·, "!~~ 
CHAPTER'S: THE STANDARD 
The CIA, however, was reluctant to produce 
11,,me-specific evid~~ce an_d, on occasio~, 
CIA failed to furnish evidence when it 
promised to do so. <:=IA:s. initial refusal to 
~upply evidence on, mdividual names was 
ml't, not with the wholesale release of names 
t~,-the Board, but with a firm insistence that 
tlic Agency meet the requirements of the Act. 
The Review Board released the names of a 
IL'W individuals who were of central irnpor­
t,rnce to the assassination story early in the 
process, but gave ~e. Agency a _number_ '?f 
,1dditional opportunities to provide specific 
c\'idence on other names. 
hir example, in December 1995, the Review 
Board designated one day of their meeting 
"n,1me day," and invited CIA to provide evi­
dl·nce for names the Review Board had 
l'ncountered in CIA records during the previ-. 
, 1L1s six to seven months. On that day, CIA 
.,gain requested the Review Board to sustain 
the postponement of all CIA names. The 
Rl·\'iew Board did not want to jeopardize the 
1wrsonal safety of individuals and gave CIA 
more time to provide evidence. The Board set 
other "name days" in May 1996 and May 
1997. As deadlines for submission of evi­
dL•nce approached, CIA agreed to release 
some names, but in most cases, continued to 
offer less than satisfactory evidence on those 
they wished to protect. Gradually, the CIA 
did begin to provide supporting evidence of 
the postponement of individual names. 
By May 1996, the Review Board had decided 
what evidence would meet the clear and con­
vincing evidence standard. If the CIA pro­
vided evidence that the individual retired 
under cover or abroad, or evidence that the 
individual objected to the release of his or her 
name when contacted (CIA agreed to attempt 
to contact former employees), the Review 
Board would protect the CIA officer's name. 
Moreover, where the CIA specifically identi­
fied an ongoing operation in which the indi­
vidual was involved oi: CIA could demon­
strate that the person ~as still active with 
CIA, the Review Board would protect the 
name. Because the JFK Act required the 
Review Board to balanc~ the potential harm 
from disclosure against the public interest in 
release, there were cases in which the Review 
Board determined that, even though the CIA 
had provided the required evidence, the 
Review Board believed • that the individual 
was of sufficiently high public interest that it 
would require the CIA to provide additional 
evidence before it would consider protecting 
the name. In these cases, the Review Board 
asked CIA to provide information on the 
employee's current status, his or-her location, 
and the nature of the work he or she did for 
the CIA. 
The Review Board determined that names 
were of high public interest when the CIA 
officer at issue had a substantive connection 
to the assassination story or where the CIA 
officer's name appeared in CIA's Oswald 201 
file. By July 1997, the Review Board had 
determined that where CIA officer names did 
not fit within one of the "high public inter­
est" categodes, it would require CIA to pro­
vide significantly less evidence in support of 
its requests for postponement. Given the-­
large number of CIA officer names in the CIA 
records, the Review Board determined thaf it 
had to adopt the practical high public inter­
est/low public interest approach, particu­
larly since it had limited time and resources 
available to complete its own review of CIA 
records. The Review Board would have pre­
ferred to review each name at the same high 
level of scrutiny that it used to review names 
of high public interest. Nevertheless, the 
Board's approach compelled the CIA to 
release many more names than it would have 
desired. 
b. "John Scelso" (pseudonym). 
i. Review Board guidelines. The Review 
Board protected the true name of the indivia­
ual known by the pseudonym of John Scelso 
until May 1, 2001 or three. months after the 
decease of the individual, whichever comes 
first. 
ii. Commentary. The CIA employee who 
was head of CIA's division "Western Hemi­
sphere 3" during the period immediately 
after the assassination of President Kennedy 
testified before the HSCA and the Church 
Committee under the "throw-away" alias 
John Scelso. His true name appears on hun­
dreds of documents in the JFK collection, 
many of which were the product of the 
Agency's extensive post-assassination inves­
tigation that spanned the globe. In reviewing 
this particular name, the Review Board's 
desire to satisfy the public's interest in release 
