• 
Memorandum to Mr. Ad,ams 
Re: Senate Select Committee, etc. 
large have not been successful. I told him that therefore we felt it would 
be appropriate for the FBI to express our view fo the Committee because 
interviews of FBI personnel and former employees have been conducted 
and are scheduled in the near future. 
Mr. O'Connor said that he understood the Director's view that 
he desired to cooperate with the Committee and he felt that such cooperation 
could be negotiated if we were to off er the Committee as trading material 
COINTELPRO files. I told Mr. O'Connor that we were not going to negotiate 
an understanding concerning witness interview procedures on the basis of 
trading any of our files. He then suggested that we negotiate the May 14, 
1975, letter which was addressed to the Attorney General by Senator Church 
and use that negotiation as a basis for trading with the Committee to develop 
workable guidelines. I again told Mr. O'Connor that I considered the quesficm 
of procedural arrangements for witness ilierviews to be a very broad question and , 
one that went far beyond the requests in the May 14, 1975, letter. I told him 
that I felt confident that the May 14, 1975, letter would be followed by perhaps 
an even longer letter with more requests and that such matters should be 
negotiated individually. 
Mr. O'Connor then said that it was his strong view that a letter 
should be addressed to the Committee complaining of the treatment of FBI 
witnesses, particularly regarding violations of the Committee's own rules 
in that it appeared that during recent interviews the Committee had not 
furnished witness a copy of the rules in sufficient time and the treatment by 
staff representatives (& the Committee staff)of witnesses had been improper. 
I told Mr. 0 'Connor that I thought that our efforts to develop 
a working relationship with the Committee could be seriously impaired at 
this time should a protest letter be sent to Senator Church because a formal 
communication of that nature would require some reaction on the part of the 
Committee and I could see no benefit to our present efforts to establish 
procedures by which we could reasonably cooperate with the Committee. 
Mr. O'Connor then suggested that a letter might be addressed 
to Senator Church which described our concern that in the absence of 
reasonable procedures witnesses' rights might be impaired and that for that 
- 3 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38196 Docld:32989588 101 
