r-· ' ( B. [Potential security.nformants in espionage and for.n nationality cases 
SEC.TION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS(AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] 107G - D 
( many times present special problems which limit or govern the scope of 
[ the initial investigation. {See instructions re contact cases and 
( deseco program., section 105K, 6b and 6h, volume IV, of this manual.) 
[ However, where practical the above items should be covered.] 
( 
r ,. 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
'( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
'[ 
9. Leads to obtain background data must be handled by auxiliary offices 
within 30 days. 
10~ ·Investigation as outlined above must be completed prior to any request to 
guide, direct, and develop an individual as a potential informant. 
INTERVIEWS [.1tND DEVELOPMENT OF J POTENTIAL ( SECURITY]INFOffi"1ANTS 
1. When background information obtained as described under subsection c, 
transmit results to Bureau in the same numerical sequence as set out 
·in subsection C, and request authority.to develop individual as a 
security informant. 
2, When authority is granted by Bureau, steps should be taken to develop 
his potentiality and he should be made aware of Bureau policy. 
3. Carefully plan initial interviews as to time and location to prevent any 
embarrassment to Bureau. 
4. Do not interview female potentials in their own homes or apartments unless 
necessary and all such interviews(in their residences]should be conducted 
by two Agents[after specific approval of the]superior in the field 
office responsible for development of informants. (This instruction is 
not applicable where active investigation has established that the 
potential informant is of good character, there is no indication of 
affiliation with subversive groups, and there will be no embarrassment 
to the Bureau. 
5, Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters where contact is 
maintained on a periodic basis dependent on the circumstances of the 
case,]potential informants should be contacted personally at least 
once every two weeks in the same manner as informants. 
6, Advise Bureau of progress being made at least every four month~. 
These progress letters should contain informative summary of information 
furnished during past four months and must include certifications 
regarding potential informant's stability and reliability and his 
indoctrination against disclosure. These certifications may follow the 
wording suggested under section l07N,[3b, (11) and (12). (Refer to 
section 105K, 6h, (3), (b), volume IV, of this manual for exceptions to 
this rulq in deseco matters.)] 
7. Post records of contacts with potential informants so that the -0ases will 
not become delinquent. 
8. During interviews vri th potential informants, if it develops individual 
does not have the necessary capabilities, discontinue efforts. 
9. Potential informant should have contacts, associates, or possibilities 
for engaging in activity through which he can obtain and furnish current 
inf-ormatio:n of Bureau interest in security field. 
10. If individual does not have potential as above described but is willing 
to cooperate, consider indioat-ing to him he can be of assistance if he 
plaQes himself in a position where he may be able to obtain information 
of value. In this regard, address of locai headquarters of subversive 
organiza~ions or meeting places of subversive groups may be mentioned 
to the individual as places where it may be possible for him to obtain 
information if he so desires; also, it may be mentioned that if he sub­
scribes to periodicals or frequents such place& above mentioned, he may 
be approached or an interest may be shown in him which,if deYeloped, 
would be the means whereby he could obtain information. . 
Inform potential informants who agree to assist the Bureau that s·uch 
assistance must be strictly voluntary and they are to understand that 
there is ~o coercion or intimidation involved. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1807 5 
2-1'2-60 
