( 
TOP SECRET - EYES ONLY 
Mr. Bundy -2- March 4, 1965 
attached memo on the subject. Another reason - State does not want to com­
promise its position on Artime (i.e., If you give aid to RECE, how can you stop 
aid to Ar time?). 
State and DOD will probably propose that, in turning down RECE, we give 
them $17,000. The RECE people apparently had to tap a program fund of 
its small contributors to keep going acl.rninistratively over the last couple 
months when Bosch cut them off; they want to return this money to the 
small contributors. Argwnents in favor of giving them the money are: 
(a) it will lessen the shock of giving RECE a negative reply, (b) they will 
not look bad among the exiles (we don't want them to look bad because they 
are 11 good guys")., and (c) part of RECE's problem has not been their fault. 
We have not been able to give RECE as prompt an answer as we would have 
liked. 
I continue to be in favor of not getting involved with RECE; I agree that 
$17,000 is a small price to pay for a kiss-off. 
4. Keating Gimmick - Both DOD and State are cold to the idea of having 
Keating (I understand this now may be changed to Donovan) stir up trouble 
between the Soviets and the Cubans. DOD feels that such goings-on might 
be interpreted as some sort of Vietnam play. State feels that such a man 
wouldn't get received at a high level; also, there are other ways to do the 
job if it needs doing. 
\ 
While I admire CIA 1 s ingenuity and I sincerely think we should keep them 
invention-minded, I must say that this one sounds like a Rube Goldberg con­
traption. I am against it. 
5. CIA 1 s Paramilitary Capability - Both DOD and State will probably oppose 
CIA 1 s proposal to drop its paramilitary capability. I agree with State and DOD 
that, with the present world situation as it stands, this is a good capability 
to keep on hand if we possibly can. I would agree to an abandonment of this 
capability only if it were demonstrated that we could crank it up again inc.. 
very short space of time. 
[;C_ 
Gordon Chase 
TOP SECRET EYES ONLY • 
Copy., 
Lyndon B. Johnson Library 
NW 50955 Docid:32423566 Page 144 
