87B 
[ 
[ 
'\ 
S1 .N 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIO._ 
b. Promptly prepare LHM, including complete details disseminated and 
identities of Secret Service officer·and local law enforcement officers ( 
to whom given and date and time of noti,Cication. Promptly disseminate 
LHM locally to Secret Service and any other appropriate Government 
agancy and furnish sufficient copies to Bureau for dissemiltation at{F'BIHO..] 
Disseminate copies of all LHMs and reports concerning organization 
locally to Secret Service on continuing basis and furnish extra 
copies of such coI)'lffiunications to Bureau for dissemination at[FBIHQ.] 
c. Determine identities of members of organization involved in plot. 
Background information concerning such individuals should be fully 
developed and included in com~unications disseminated to Secret Service. 
5. Communist Influence in Racial Y~tters, Internal Security -·c . 
{code name 11CIRM"). Bufile 100-442529. Office of origin: ·uev1 York 
a. Submit quarterly reports, to reach Bureau by February 1, May 1-, -
August 1, and November 1 on full extent of communist influence in 
racial matters. 'Include information on communist infiltration of Negro 
organizations and subversive individuals active in racial movement. 
Include this information even if it duplicates information in other 
reports. Offices with no information to report advise Bure2.u by letter. 
b. Use three-part outline in report: (1) Communist Strategy·, (2) Com­
munist Tactics, and (3) Communist Penetration and Influence in Racial 
Organizations. Under strategy, include plans and line of CPUSA and 
other communist groups, such as SWP and Progressive Labor Party. 
Under tactics, describe communist direction, influence, and partici­
pation in demonstrations, disturbances, and other events with racial 
overtones. List events in chronologica~ order wit~ appropriate sub­
headings. In part three, report influence of subversives in racial 
organizations. 
6. Title and character. 
Communications covering organizations and groups should carry the name 
of the organization and characters as set out below. 
a. Internal Security - Communist 
The use of this character will apply to: 
(1) Communist basic revolutionary organizations (both pro-Soviet ( 
and pro-Chinese); for example, Conununist Party, USA, and _ 
Progressive Labor Party. 
(2) Communist front groups. 
(3) Com,~unist infiltrated groups. 
b. Internal Security - Communist {Trotskyist) 
The use of this character will apply to: 
(1) Trotskyist basic revolutionary organizations such as the 
Socia.list Workers Party, Workers World Party, Young Socialist 
Alliance and Youth Against War and Fascism. 
(2) Trotskyist fronts such as the Student Mo]bilization Committee. 
c. Internal Security -[Revolutionary Activities 
This will include all organizations affiliated with[Revolutionary] 
Movement[groups]except those which would be characterized as Communist 
or Trotskyist front and infiltrated groups. 
Where appropriate, include identity of particular district or field 
division; e.g., 
7. Classification - 100 
Communist Party, USA 
District 
-------Division 
Internal Security C 
16 
6-13-72 
( 
I ·NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1897 
i 
I l i 
l 
I 
