528 ORGANIZED cnu.n; Ai':D ILLICIT 'l'TIAFFIC rn NARCOTICS 
re:Ll 01' perso!lal. l is ho11se au(omol,ilr a tis O Jt'. "" ,.;;c;i llS 
are held i11 the nnnies o ot tPrs. owrver, we do not 1elie,·c him to be 
llcsE1tulc, for !us cuiititil ot gTtiubling in the central Florida area alone 
must net him huge amounts of money. Ilis operations there show, 
also, a clrnrnctcristi,: )[:dia. 111~thrnl of ,1ti]i;-;ing non-Sicilian associnte.s 
wherci it servPs its cri111i1ml ol,jedives. 
Sergeant Branch, who has for the past .7 years been i1ffestigating 
gambling and other organized criminal nctiYities in the Orlando area, 
will descrilie the i\lalia's control, thrn11gh the IInrlan Blackburn 
~ org-anization, of lottery operalions in central Florida. ,ve know of 
no l(,gitimatl' lntsi11essPs t !tat are owne<l. 
The Cn.,11or.,x. SPrgeant Branch is here ,vithyou 1 
:Mr. BnowN. Yes, sir. 
On the lower right-hnnd si<le of our chart we ha.ve depicted tha.t 
group of Trn llic:rn te as,ocia tes. 
Sergeant. Brnnch will here tPstify rrbout the Blackbnrn group. 
The CII.\IIDL\X. Do you !c'olemnly swc>ar tha.t the testiinony you are 
about to girn ]ipforc this suliconm1ittee will !)e the truth, the ·whole 
rrnth, and 11othiug but the trnth, so help you God i 
~fr. Hn,, xcn. l do. 
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM BRANCH 
Tl10 CHAIIDlAX. Will yon identify yottrself for the record? 
l\fr. Hn.\XCH. 1 am :i scrgPant with tlin Orlando Police Department 
attached to the intelligPnce division, aml I have been with them since 
Hl:'>l. I have lH'Cll working: in this type of work since Hl5G, with the 
cooperation of the Ferleral and State agcJ1cics in our area. 
The C1L\llOL\N. Do you have a prepared statement? 
Mr.BRANCH. Yes,sir,Ido. 
The CIIAIIDL\N. It appears to be four or five pages. Do you wish 
to read it? 
~Ir. HnAKCH. Yes, sir. 
In the central Flori<la area the main gambling activity is known as 
holita, or Cnba. I:Ui)iliJ i~ 9: numbers lott~ "·here the winning num­
ber is drawn daily. Cu a, IS a nnmbersottery where the winning 
number is drawn weekly .. Bettors can place bets on any number from 
1 to 100 and receive a litl-to-1 return if they win. The Cuba winning 
number is the last iwo digits -from the Cuban national lottery number 
which is live digits and is brnadcnst over a Havana radio station each 
Satnrd:ty shortly after 2 p.rn. 
The public is contacted by "perkllers" or "sellers," who receive a com­
mission of 15 percent of their sales. "Pickup" men, who take the bets 
rfrom the sellers to the "checkup houses," receive 20 percent of what 
they collect. Employees such as checlmp men, adding machine opera­
tors, and supervisors above this position usually receive salaries for 
their duties. 
Lottery operations in central Florida prior to 1948 were dominated 
first by Charlie Wall of Tampa and then by Sam ,varren, an Orlando 
native. In that year Harlan Blacklmrn, FBI No. 1026922, a con­
victed felon, came into Orlando and began taking over bolita and 
Cuba gambling. 
This man is on the chart also. 
NW 50955 Docid:32423630 Page 668 
Blackburn was 
he was convicted 
served 4½ years 
the Florida StatE 
nf:irch 1D5? for OJ 
a ::>-year prison se1 
Senator l\Iusrrn 
l\Ir. BRANCH. l 
Senator Musrrn 
Mr. BRANCH. N 
Senator Muslin 
l\Ir. BRA.NCH. }] 
yes, sir; 
The CHAIRJ\IAN. 
l\Ir. BRANCH. N, 
He was then inc 
conviction of cons 
was most recently 
Federal waaering trial. i:, 
BI:ickburn supei 
Flonda gnmblina. 
F. Lee, Cecil Me;ri 
Don l\forh, Dan Ft, 
and Cli ll'ord Bell·. 
Riffe; Clyde F. r:P 
Macon Tribtw, ,Tul 
shnw; 1Cecil Merrit 
Solombn; :rnd Ra 11 nnd Elvin Carroll. 
With the exrppti 
all of these persons 
other crimes. 
I h~ve here ropie~ 
committee's record. 
The Cn.rnnux. ' 
refer0nce only. 
(The doeui1w11ts 1 
erence and may hP f, 
l\fr. Bn.\NCir. Tiu 
operation for a-numl 
of gross nncl net col 
have secured from ◄ 
from _witnesses tha 
gambling. 
Senator l\fosrrrn 
Mr. BnANc1r. I h: 
The lottery operat 
County into all of. 1 
Georgrn.. 
From 1948 until tl 
t~a;t. Santo Trafficam 
v1s1tmg Orlando anc 
ducting the lottery. 
