( 
( 
' 
( 
T. 
u. 
SEC~'IOU 107. 
) 
.CURITY IlTFORl-:1.P.MTS .A.ND ~OURCES 
8. Instruct each intereste.'l. B11.re2.u office which has made further dis­
semination of suoh inf,.,rma.tion to follow the instruotion~ set forth 
above. 
107S 
9. Also se·t up a. control file regarding this oorreoti,e action, ana. upon 
completion of same subr.1it to the Bureau a final le·hter under the in­
formant ts caption identifying ea.oh case by ti ·t.lt1, ch,i.raoter, Bureau file, 
where kno,·rn, and a.ate of 001a..11mnica.tion. 
J.O. This letter will be used. to check all pertinen·b Bureau files to see 
·!;hat necessary correcti-v-e action has been taken in each instance. 
11. If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
the infor,!lant should ?.lso be reques·ted. to submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections ha.-ve been mao.e .. 
12. It is impera.ti-ve that all informati~n from the informant be·correot1y· 
labeled and gre~t care must be taken to see that this is done. 
13. Occasionally, an ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant~ It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of 
the information attributed to that individual in the absence of a 
definite indication that the informan·I; furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau vrhilc he was an informant. 
14. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unrelia.bili ty should be made in accordance with part II, 
section 5, of the Hanua.l of Rules and Regulations. 
CLASSIFICATION - 134 
·coNFIDEN'TI.AL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
.See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a. J.. symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
exists, or if typing v;ould be sa-v-ed. 
b. A~vise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnished. 
c. The abbre-v-ia.tion "GS 11 may be used in intra-Bureau coi,_•mmioa.tions 
for confidential source. Communications relating to espionage and 
foreign nationality matters should in addition have a character 
indicating the country involved; e.g., IS - R for Russia. 
d. When a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential source, 
the abbreviation 11GS" is to appear before the symbol number; e,g., 
CS NY-000-S. 
e. Symbol numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from 
[ the series of symbol numbers used for your security, (racial, ]and 
criminal informants. 
3. Index 
a.. Index cards on form FD-348 like those prepared for informantg inust 
be made up a1rd filed as an adjunct to the criminal informant index, 
[._ (racial informant index, )or the security informant index, depending on 
the type of information furnished. 
b. The symbol index is handled simi~a.rly to the symbol index on inform-
ants. :~ _ 
c. Duplicate confidential gource cards may be maintained with the 
[ criminal informant index, [racial informant index, )a11d the security 
[·· informant index if. the source furnishes information of value in[the se] 
types of investigations. 
4. Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to an individual who 
has potential as a security confidential source, a 134 classification 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforti 
[ to develop the individua~ are discontinued. Files may be opened 
on confidential sources in criminal matters in a manner identical with 
that for handling criminal informant files in the discretion of the 
SAC. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1457 
27 
1-13-64 
u 
I 
I 
J. 
l f 
I l 
• 
! . i 
I 
i < < 
I 
I 
I l 
I 1 
' 
