-. 
WFO 105-8906 
/ that he had read this also.. JAFFE expressed considerable concern about 
receiving action on his proposal and then asked.if SMIRNOVSKY knew of 
a."ly place in the U. S. ,vhere one could buy Russia....'l vodka and SMIRt.'iOVSKY 
said he did not .. 
On 2/18/54 SAM JAFFEY (phonetic), told SAIRNOVSKY that he 
planned to be in Washington next Thursday and wondered if SMIRNOVSKY 
would ha.ve lunch with him.. SMIRNOVSKY said he would and suggested that 
he call him when he gets in tovm" JAFFEY said he is working-on a story 
j regarding-the Indian caste system; that he already has the Hindu stor--.r 
I
I • laid out covering about ho pages; that at a conference yesterday it was 
decided t,hat photos would have to be taken in China, j.e_, pictu-res of 
temples but still the-.r have not received an answer from the Peking 
government. JAFFEY wondered if .Ambassador ZARUBIN could be 9f further 
help in this,matter if a wire were sent to Iiim in Gennany. SMIRNOVSKY 
said it would be all right to send the wire. They agreed to discuss 
this further Thursday. 
On 2/26/54 SAM JAFFE, 0Li.fe, n tried to reach .P.mbassa.dor ZARUBIN 
finally spoke instead ,,ith FEDOSEEV, with whom he went over again 11Life 1 s 11 
project for photographic essays of religions of the world and their 
desire to get into China. FEDOSEEV promised that he and the .Ambassador 
would do all they cou.la., but that they just had not heard as yet. JAFFE 
emphasized that all he wants is a definite answer even if it is no. 
On 3/22/54, SAM JJ\.FFE 1ti•llf-1Gti, asked whether.,...,.~· 
FEDOSEEV had heard any word from the Peoples Republic of China ~egarding 
his request. JJ\.FFE pointed out that the Chinese ·will be holdL11g a big 
Confucius ceremony in April and he would lilce to cover it to get material 
:for his story. JAFFE went into great detail explaining the importance 
for covering the ceremony in China proper since it is the birth place of 
Confucius. He ,said they would probably cover it in Korea and on Fonnosa. 
FEDOSEEV agreed to talk the request overagain with the .Ambassador and 
call JAFFE when something comes in. 
On 4/9/54, SAM JAFFE tilfil-lMithf tried to reach 
FEDOSEEV, was told that he was out to lunch now· and to call back at 
2 o'clock. JAFFE said that he 'Nanted to know something about the "Red 
Starn magazine (Red Army magazine), and was told FEDOSEEV would help on 
this matter. • 
On 4/9/54 S.AM JAFFE again attempted to reach FEDOB!i.:EV and was 
told by SMIRNOVSKY that he was not in the Embassy. JAFFE said this 
call did not pertain to the Chinese proposal but to·a drawing published 
in the end of the March issue of the 0 Red Sta.r 11 of the 11H Bomb.11 
-9-
~ NW 38326 Docld:32989704 142 
~) 
~) 
l . 
l . l 
j 
A 
l 
l 
I 
1. I 
.I 
:l ' 
t 
i 
j 
j 
l 
~ 
l 
1 
I 
l 
l 
I 
i 
1 
