SECRET 
southwest of Havana. At present, no more than four 
shortwave transmitters are being used, but in the 
past as many as five have been observed on the· air -
at the same time. These transmitters range in power 
from 10 to 100 kilowatts, enabling Radio Havana to 
be heard all over the world. Programs are being 
sent from studios to the transmitter site by means 
of microwave relays. 
VII. Rival Forces in Latin American Subversion 
Since the October crisis, Fidel Castro has ob­
viously been trying to straddle the rift between Mos­
cow and Peiping over global Communist strategy. It 
has been aptly put that Castro's heart is in Peiping 
but his stomach is in Moscow. This same split be­
tween all-out militancy and a more cautious policy-­
call it coexistence or "two steps forward, one step 
back"--is reflected on the extreme left in many Latin 
American countries. Thus Cuba at present not only 
seeks to serve two masters, but to choose among rival 
servants in its Latin American subversion. 
Castro's views on what is good for socialism 
and revolution in Latin America are more in line with 
those of the Chinese Communists than the Soviets. 
Only the Cuban and Venezuelan Communist parties are 
totally committed to terror and revolution. In spite 
of differences over tactics and timing between var­
ious Communist groups, all intend eventually to de­
liver the Latin American countries into the Commu~ 
nists-socialist bloc. The so-called Soviet "conser­
vative fl view, as it is now espoused, is more intent 
on trying to achieve power by legal means if possible 
and by subversion rather than by force. 
Direct Soviet interest in Latin America is clearly 
increasing. An excellent example of this was the. set­
ting up early in 1962 of a Latin American Institute in 
the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. The avowed purpose 
of this institute is to raise the study of the prob-
lems of Latin America, which in their own statements 
the Soviets claim they have neglected, to the highest 
possible level. Teaching of Spanish and Portuguese 
-13-
SECRET 
NW 50955- Docld:324247~9 Page 19 
