13-00000 
I, 
I 
Memorandum to Mr. Tolson 
he was very greatly concerned about this entire matt~r and that, in order 
for honesty and justice to prevail, an arbitrator should be set up who would 
listen to all of the evidence and .th•!n furnish a: complete report to the 
Supreme Court. Justice Fortas added that naturally the arbitrator would 
be someone whom the President could trust to furnish the absolute true facts. 
He stated the next problem ~C?,~l~-.~~o find this particular 
man. He said he had in mind somebody Uxe-Ken Royall,, former Secretary 
of the Army. He asked me what I tl)ought of him. I told him I naturally 
had heard Mr. Royal's name, however, Mr. Hoover would have far better 
judgment on this matter than I would. He next stated that perhaps someone 
like Ros;'Mara-ne] 'former President of the American Bar Association. would 
be good in this regard. I told him that we had enjoyed very favorable· 
relations with Mr. Malone. Justice Fortas then mentioned that there was 
an immediate past President of the American Bar Associatiol} (rom the State 
of Virginia. I told him he probably was thinking of Lewis Powell. He stated 
this was correct. He asked me what I thought of Powell. I told him that 
Mr. Powell had generally concurred with Mr. Hoover's beliefs concerning 
crime: however, on occasions he had been somewhat naive and a little weak. 
JtisUce. Fortas stated that he thought Royal or Malone would b~ the best man . . . . . 
Justice Fortas told me that he would take the above action 
{
immediately. He stated he was going to Jacksonville, Florida: today; however, 
he would try to tal'c to the President prior to his departure---if not, he would 
discuss this matter with the ·President Thursday morning, 6/16/66. I told 
him that time was growing short inasmuch as the Supreme Court wanted an 
answer almost immediately. He stated ~is was true and that, as a matter 
\!
of fact, once the arbitrator was appointed all of his facts would have to be 
gathered and furnished to the Supreme Court within two weeks. He stated 
. he thought Ws could be done. _ " 
Justice For.tas told me that he wanted to mention another 
• \ subject. He stated that he had already taken steps to disqualify himseli in 
• the Hoffa case. He mentioned that the Black, Baker and Hoffa cases would 
be continuing cases which would go on for many years. He asked me lf I 
·1cnew of any irregularities on the part of Bobby Kennedy in coMection with 
(
the Hoffa case. I replied in the affirmative, stating that Kennedy on one . 
occasion had specifically· asked an FBI representative to place a microphone 
on an attorney by the name of Haggerty. I stated this action had been taken 
despite the fact that the FBI had not wanted to do this. Justice Fortas replied 
that he had felt that such might be the case and that under the circu~stances 
CONTINUED ..... OVER 
- 3 - ~ 
