87D 
{11) 
:I 
·v 
SECURITY INVESTIGATI~N-
II 0 Mark canceled across face o~ each such card being 
retained and file it in the[reserve]index. 
III. [Consider whether the subject's name should be placed 
in section A of the reserve index. If his name should 
be included in section A, submit form FD-122a.] 
(h) Subjects of Chinese extraction 
In any communication recommending cancellation of a security 
• index card o_n a subject of Chinese extraction, such comnm­
nica tion must contain the words "Other - Chinese. 11 This 
regulation relates specifically to those subjects placed· 
on the security index following a recommendation submitted 
in accordance with the instructions contained in section 
87D 7b (4) (j) above. 
Priority apprehension program {DETCOMl . 
. (a) Purpose . . 
(i,) 
Many individuals included in security index because of their 
training, violent tendencies, or promi~ence in subversive 
activity are extremely dangerous and would be more·inclined 
to ooinmit or capable of committing overt acts against the 
U~ s. in time of national emergency than would others in 
security index. Degree of dangerousness of such individuals 
is so pronounced that in interest of security they I!J.USt 
. be imrhoqilized in the least possible time prior to·others 
in security index. The administrative procedure developed 
to make apprehensions on a priority basis is referred to 
as the detcom program. Subjects designated for priority 
apprehension are referred to as detcom Hubjectso 
Individuals in security index tabbed detcom would be 
arrested first in event of a limited but grave emergency, 
probably without the a±rest of other security index subjects. 
In an all-out emergency, all subjects whose names are in the 
security index will be considered for innediate apprehension. 
Subjects tabbed for detcom should comprise a hard core 
of subversives. ·Each individual case ·should stznd on its 
own merits and decision to consider subjects for priority 
of apprehension should be based on subject's sub~ersive 
activities and revolutionary tendenciesc 
Subjects to be tabbed detcom 
Each security index subject should be considered for aetcom 
tabbing (priority of a~rest) who falls within one or more 
of follo~ing categories: 
I 0 All top functionaries afta key figures 
IIe Currently active communists or members of _any basic 
revolutionary organization {active within past year} 
wh;n there is evidence of one or moie of following: 
(A) Activity as local organizers or leadefS in the 
orgalli~ut:ion 
(B) Special training at Lenin School or Far Eastern 
Institute in Moscow 
{c) Experience as picket .captai,ns, strong--arm men, or 
active participation in violent strikes, riots, er 
demonstrations • 
(D) V;l.olent statements or strong revolutionary tendencies 
as shown by their activities 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 883 62 
