( 
( 
4. 
s. 
[ 6. 
t 
7. 
a. 
9 •. 
____ -e._ ~- ••• --. !'""O:::..r .. -• -
•• ----·-·-- - ± ... 
10. 
11. 
( 
~ 
SECTION 107. .URITY INFORMANTS AND 
) 
C01H'ID Er, . -~AL 
• 
SOURCES 107M 
Subfiles 
a. A subfile is required on each informant who submits statements, written 
or oral, except in espionage or foreign nationality matters where a 
subfile is necessa-ry only in those instances invol-ving possible 
prosecution. The original of each statement, whether personally 
written by the informant or furnished orally and reduced to writing 
by contacting Agent, should be filed in this subfile. Executed form 
FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
set forth on form FD-306 should be stapled to the original of each 
such statement. 
b. Holes may be punched in original statements of informan~s for secure 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any portion 
of statements or notations thereon. 
Channelization 
Excerpts from the informant's statement are to be included in the regular 
investigative case report when information of value is submitted. Form 
FD-306 may be used to disseminate this information to the case file in 
lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired. If so used, prepare oopies 
of FD-306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy·to ea.oh copy 
.of the informant'~ statement being channelized. Cha.nnelizatipn should be 
"noted on ori~inal FD-306 and on .all copies under "Remarks. 11 
Channelizing memoranda - destruction of 
For instr,uotions .c·oncerning the ·aestruotion·· of qhanneiizing memoranda, 
see Manual of Rules and Regurations. 
Dissemination of information 
Information submitted by informants, potenti•al informants, confidential 
sources, or sources of information should be reported to the Bureau and 
interested offices and other agencies· whene-ver necessary b:' the appro­
priate means of communication under captions showing the sul.·_ eat matter 
of the information. 
Correspondence 
Correspondence submitted in security informant and potential ~ecurity 
informant matters should be strictly limited to the administrative 
handling of the informant and should not contain information more prop­
erly furnished to the Bureau under a substanti-ve case caption. 
Maintenance of files· 
a. All pe_nding files on security informants shall be maintained under 
lock and key under the personal super-vision of the SAC, ASAC, or field 
supervisor as the informant indices are maintained and described in· 
subsection K. 
b. Subfiles ·containing written statements may be maintained in the open 
files seotion, provided .there is no disclosure of the informant•s 
identity on the statements. 
o. All informant files should be maintained in such a manner as to insure 
that all information furnished by ,a particular informant will be 
immediately available upon the request of the Bureau. 
a. In addition, these files should be maintained in such a fashion that 
the identities of the cases in which an informant has furnished 
comp·etent evidence can be furnished immediately to the Bure~.•L by 
simply re:re·rring to the file of the informant and without 
0
·-:.,, necessity 
of conducting extensive research, 
Use of informant by Department - filing correspondence re 
From time to time, the Department expresses an interest in usini a partic­
ular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a w-itness. 
As a result, there will be correspondence showing this situation between 
the Bureau and the field. Place copies of all such correspondence in 
the informant 1 s file. Occasionally such correspondence may be volu­
minous and apply to more than one informant. In those cases, summarize 
the information concerning each particular informant and place the summary 
in the appropriate· informant's file. 
Form FD-238 . 
Form ~~-238 (printed on pink paper) has been approved for use in security 
informant and potential security infor~ant files. It is to be use~ in 
the nature of a table of contents or as an index to show where in the 
file pa1•ticular data ,:;an be found. This form is to be kept as the top 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1348 
17 
4-15-63 
