13-00000 
suspicions that had been created. 
REP. CONYERS: Thank you very much. Mr. Schiff. 
REP. STEVEN SCHIFF (R-NM)·: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
First, Director Gates; I want to thank you for 
appearing personally here. I know that you have a heavy 
schedule, . and -I'm -sure -all--·the··members-o·f-the--commlttee do •• ---•••• - ·- ·----
appreciate that. 
I have just a few questions, but I do have a couple of 
observations on your statement. The first is, I do not know 
personally whether Mr. Oliver Stone who testified before us at 
the last hearing is a real expert on the assassination of 
President Kennedy, or as you suggested a self-styled expert. 
I do know this, though. I do know that it's because 
of his movie that members of the Congress of the United States 
are discussing this matter publicly with the director of the 
CIA. And I'm quite-positive that his movie has.caused all of 
that to happen today, ,.and I pers.9nally give him the credit for 
that. -
Second of all, I note your observation that there is 
not a lingering conspiracy theory involving the assassination of 
President McKinley. To your knowledge, anywhere in the 
government, your agency or elsewhere, are there any documents or 
information which for any reason are not being released with 
respect to the assassination of President McKinley? 
. GATES: Well, I can't speak to that from direct. 
knowledge, Mr. Schiff. But I will say that •since it predated 
CIA's formation by 47 years, I imagine not. 
REP . SCHIFF: Well, you see, I think that 's- the --. 
central point here, is that there is--I'm not sure we'll ever 
resolve all the questions about the assassination of President 
Kennedy. You are correct that we have not resolved all the 
questions about th~ assassination of President Lincoln. On 
national TV I saw a program recently suggesting that John Wilkes 
Booth did not actually die as suggested,· and gave. reasons for 
that. 
But the difference between the assassination of 
President Kennedy and these prior terrible assassinations in our 
country's history is, this is the one situation where the 
government, for whatever reason, and,for whatever circumstances, 
still holds information which it considers to be confidential. 
And that's the root of this controversy now, and 
that's the root of this hearing, I think. 
And I made a note of items that you as director of the 
CIA would consider to be still--to still warrant confidentiality 
today. "And I .made notes of three. If there were more, I 
apologize that I missed them. I'm not talking about the 
procedures, which you made observations about, and which I think 
you'll find the committee willing to discuss with the executive 
branch. 
But three classifications of records. The first is 
personnel records involving, I gather, government agents, 
perhaps CIA agents, fitness reports and credit reports, first of 
all. 
Second of all, the privacy issue because government 
