... 
SECRE1 Betsy Pal.mer 
April 5, 1978 
Review of Manuel Rey Rivero files 
Assortment of documents not in files at time review began on 3/29/78 
.,...,_ 16-IO 
,= -1, 
1. 10 June 1966 Dispatch to Chief, WH, From iCl1ief or Station, rSanto 
Domingo3 Subject: Haitian Exile Acti vi tie::. in the Dominican ~epublic. 
'7__ • 
L~-1 provided information on Haitian exile activities. On Mey 30, 
1966,~ was taken to a meeting ~1 Godefray Moscoso at the Hotel 
c,iomeraial. • (with) 
~ 'WB.S taken to meeting by Gerard Max Lafontant, a Haitian Conmrunist 
At the meeting, Lafontant told Moscoso that Manolo Rey had obtained 
explosives for him to use in the first invasion against Haiti and that 
Rey 'WB.S now living in the Dominican Republic. I.afontant described Rey 
as a former collaborator of Fidel Castro, but was not now on sepa.king 
terms with Castro. He said the Communist-oriented 14th of 
June Revolutionary Movement had on one occasion accused Rey of being a CIA 
r/trJiirti agent, but this ,W'a-6 not true. Rey can obtain explosives w1 thin 
24 • hours after the reques·t is Illa.de. 
-~ 2. Cable to Director from HUnt, August 25, 1960 states that Carrillo advised 
that FRD should keep an eye on new a.n:ti-Castro group being formed by Raul 
Chibas and Manuel Ray, Marcel Fernandez, JUlio Durate and Jose Pepin 
Bosch. Chibas told Carrillo that Miro would follow Chibas line which 
would be neither join nor fight FRD but help if necessary. Bosch 
financing Chibas and Miro with initial credit. Results negative when 
Carillo invited new group to join FRD. Carrillo feels if new group 
succeeds, it will try to draw in Feliue Pazos and Ramon Barquin. 
(Note date of cable) 
3. Dispatch to Deputy Chief, WH./SA from Chief of Station, JMWAVE 
dated 14 April 1964 in Mexico, D. F. Lengthy and very rambling 
letter which, among lllailY other things, states the story about Manuel 
Ray being closely associated with ALBIZU CAMPOS and friendly with 
Puerto Ricans who were working on the rennovation of the White House 
and the group that tried to assassinate TrUman. (Pencilled notation 
of A. Rodriguez -- "Who is .AMSHOT/1? Could he be agent provacateur? 
What is his access? Can we take him seriously?) Although postmarked 
in Mexico, AMSHOT apparently still in CUba~;~ Not a CUban citizen - Wife 
in u.s. Trying to get a Mexican Visa. 
4. cable 21 May 1964 or information report. 
On 21 May 1964, unidentified members of JURE stated that 
Manuel Ray Rivero entered CUba success:f'ully on 17 Mey 1964 
and is still there. He departed from an unidentified embarcation point 
near CUba at 3 am on 17 Mey- and reached his destination by 10 am that day. 
Ray was accompanied by a labor leader believed to be JOSE COMEZ RODRIGUEZ 
and a 22 year old man who was to serve as Ray's communications clerk and 
auide. 
SECRET 
