13-00000 
PAGE 19 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
REP. HASTERT: And then you are confident, as you said before, that the review 
board can finish its task by September 80th, 1998. 
REP. STOKES: I am just very confidentthat- in projecting the fact that they 
can do this work with one year. And when they say themselves as they will say 
to you when they appear,. this'll be one final year. • 
REP. HASTERT: Thank you very much, and thank you for your testimony. 
REP. STOKES: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
REP. HASTERT: The gentleman from Wisconsin. 
REP. BARRETT: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
I don't have a lot of questions, either. I just want to compliment you, 
Congressman Stokes, for the fine job that you have done. 
REP. STOKES: Thank you. 
REP. BARRETT: And just one question. Do you think in the unfortunate and 
hopefully unlikely scenario that there are future assassinations in the future 
that this was a good way to approach this problem, the panel that you served? 
Do you think that you have accomplished what you intended to accomplish? 
REP. STOKES: Mr. Barrett, at the time that we undertook this panel and Congress 
passed the act to create this panel, 85 percent of the American people believed 
that someone other than Lee Harvey Oswald had participated in the assassination 
of President Kennedy. A national poll had told us that. There were boundless 
rumors and myths. People were writing numerous books and things of that sort. 
And as a consequence of it, I think that putting this panel together and 
permitting this type of investigation I think was very helpful. I think it 
allayed many of the rumors and myths that grew up and <).bounded around the 
assassination of our president. • 
However, I don't think that it put to bed everything. We uncovered many things. 
For instance, we pointed up many of the things that the Warren Commission had 
not done properly. And we were able to destroy many of the myths, such as the 
umbrella man theory and things of that sort. But we couldn't put everything to 
bed. We had begun that investigation 15 years after the assassination of the 
president. I think had we been given this type of investigation immediately 
after it had occurred, it would have been a different result. But many of the 
witnesses had died. Evidence had disappeared. As you can see now, there were 
materials which we were not able to get even within that two-year period before 
we went out of existence. 
And so as a consequence of it, I think we did an outstanding job. No one has 
ever been able to refute any of the work that we did. No one has been able thus 
far to say anything was ever covered up from the American people. And so to 
that degree, I think that it performed a good service for the American people. 
