[ 
87A - B 
'';<.... 
SECl .• 87. 
, __ 
INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVEl,&. 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVI~S 
0 
•· 
6. Accuracy of characterizations ·,. 
Assure that statements relating to characterizations of an individual J 
or organization, or relating to affiliations with or membership in any 
organization, are founded on firm bases. Identify sources for such 
characterizations or statements of affiliation or membership if such 
characterizations, affiliations or memberships are not commonly and 
publicly known. 
7. Investigations and contacts with individuals connected with institutions 
of learning 
a. Prior FBIHQ approval is required to: 
(1) Institute investigation of a faculty member or an organization 
connected with an educational institution. 
(2) Interview any student or faculty member who is not an established 
source. (Requests to conduct interviews must include individual's 
name, position, and an assessment of his reliability and dis­
cretion.) 
b. Contacts with established sources in an administrative capacity may 
be, made on campus. Contacts with other established sources, e.g., 
students and nonacademic employees, should be made off campus. 
8. Use of officers from o.ther agencies 
Members of other law enforcement or intelligence agencies are not to 
accompany Agents handling these investigations without specific approval 
by the SAc·. 
B. INVESTIGATION OF ORGANIZATIONS 
1. Purpose 
To develop evidence of any violations of statutes enumerated iri A. 1. 
above and to keep the Department and other agencies and officials of the 
Executive Branch apprised of information developed which pertains to 
their areas of interest and responsibility. 
2. Responsibility to initiate investigations -..) 
When information is received indicating an organization may be engaged _ 
in subversive activities or may be a front group for subversive organiza-
tion, field office should initiate preliminary investigation confined to 
established sources. Notify FBIHQ that investigation has been undertaken. 
Within[90]days submit results by letter with recommendation as to 
whether or not further investigation is warranted. 
3. Scope of investigation 
Pertinent data concerning following items should be obtained and ·rep9rted: 
a. Origin and scope 
Date and circumstances of founding including any incorporation data. 
Identities of.organizers. Location of headquarters and chapters or 
affiliates,.if any. 
b. Stated aims and purposes, especially any information showing 
advocacy of violence or illegal activity. 
c. Officers 
Principal officers and/or leaders with succinct resume of subversive 
backgrounds, if any. 
d. Membership 
Total active membership, inGluding logical breakdowns by organizational 
structure and geographical area, if applicable. If exact membership 
figures are· not available and estimates are given, be certain they 
are plainly shown as estimates. In cover pages or cover communications, 
include evaluation of reliaoility of membership figures cited, as well 
as comments concerning any significant factors involving membership, 
e.g., increases or decreases, notable shift in composition of group 
by age, sex, nationality, etc. Be certain to secure accurate d~scrip­
tion of all lists referred to so as to avoid confusion as to exact 
identity or significance of such lists. 
e. Publications 
All publications of group with emphasis on any which clearly depict 
subversive character of organization. 
6 
9-13-73 
"' j 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1828 
i 
l j 
l 
~ 
1 
~ 
! 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
!' 
~ ,. 
t 
£ . l 
~ 
" t 
f 
i 
I t 
I 
