• • Men101c--andum to Mr. Adams 
Re; Legal Advice for Present or Former B.lreau Employees 
In reg,ard to the question of security clearance for such outside 
couns-el and the possibility that an employee might seek to. employ an 
attorney whose backgrmmd would suggest that he would not be approved 
for security clearance, -1 told Miss \X/agner that the provision of private 
counseI to -an. en1ployee would be done in the discretion of the Department 
and that a reasonable limitation could well be imposed by the Department 
as to thos,e attorneys in private. practice who would be eligible for appoint­
ment to· Fepresent individual employees. Such limitation would permit 
the Departn1ent and the employee to agree upon an attorney who would be 
qualified f.or security clearance. 
1.llliss Wagner inquired as to when the Department's responsibility 
for furnishing legal counsel to an employee should terminate. I told her 
that an, appropriate time would be when the Department advised the 
employee that a decision had been made to prosecute the employee. Up 
to that point the inquiries would have been directed toward the determination 
of the circumstances and that the employer-employee relationship would 
justify protecting the legal rights of the employee, but at the point at 
which the Gove1~nment determines and so advises the employee that the 
employee would be prosecuted, the Government and the employee would 
beco1ne adversaries. 
V-le discussed the provision in Federal law for the appointme11t of 
counsel for Federal defendants i11 cases where the defendant is indigent. 
I suggested that they consider the possibility that even in those cases 
where -an .employee is to be prosecuted, the Department consider the 
possibility of employing existing law to provide counsel to employees 
who may become defendants in criminal cases. 
As to the scope of th0 representation of the employee, I told 
lVIiss \Vagner that the initial need is for legal advice in sih1ations where 
an employee is called for a1,. interview or testimony by Members, 
commi~tees, subc01nmittees ~ or other units of the Congress. However, I 
explained that due to the publicity 0f the Congressional jnquiries, others may 
weJl be interested in pursuing i.11.dependent inquiries concerning the same 
matters or otI1er matters aIJ.d -J-hat employees may well request legal 
advice when they are callec1. for :;,nterview or testimony by the Crimh1al 
- 3 - CONTINUED - OVER 
\ NW 31B2fi Docld:32989653 
