13-00000 
:!'.::.::· &!:l. it•r.as not bee:, vaiidated 
for :i;s!J"iC·i?; •esearch. Ev~n though 
fo~;,~a·, i.\ii!h the i,,achine believe 
:-,,: b,! ~,::'•?d ir:t this wa·y., my pr9je.CI 
first a•tc::"lpt to do so. • 
; eJsier to demonstrate with the PSE 
::l-=3.Ker :s telhna the truln than to 
: is ly:n3. Stress -can be caused by 
,:r.e, ea:1 deception: bu! the ab­
,! st~ess Is an extremely reliable 
on cl tr1.tntulness. Of course, the 
e of stress.does not prove that a 
int is tr!..:. on!y that the speaker 
it to c~ tr~~-
'";o~:;.r I fo·.;'id a great da:!l :,! stress 
-;:·;-: ,i. :-' ... ~ assass·"'"',:~;::,:, tape~. 
,g:e i.-,s~ar.:.e .:an I say that the i:i-
·:,as :y,,..g. I po;!'!: this out :iot only 
cl rri1s,ff frcm lica' s:.:i!:; i:;.,t be­
am r,c: r.:cra:!:; certa:n any or:e indi­
,as nc! r=:.:,,g the trut:i. 
nethe'e:::.. stress in the tes!imony 
wit"lesse1= t: :he same event makes 
iematicai p~ooaoiiity overwhelming 
!?ast sor.-:e .Jf them were lyir.g. 
1 points :c ..;1d not t:e Der.a· illus­
han tr.-:-:, -::e·e b'/ tne Jim Gar­
lay Sha·:; A!~air. 
;on, it may oe recalled, was the New 
~ District Attorney who. in 1967, 
I to have s~lved the Kennedy assas-
. He preser:ted an elaborate case 
a loca: b:.1sinessman. Clay Shaw, 
~rs. as !"."'.S ":::ers of an assassination 
acy. In one of the hour-long pro­
CBS interviewed Garrison, Shaw,. 
other people involved in Garrison's· 
:ms. 
interview. Garrison was hostiie and 
make many firm, factual statements 
test with the PSE. However, he did 
iere's no question about it {!hat he . 
>w the assassination had been car-
] ... we know the key i_ndividuals 
j ... there is no question about the 
, conspirators] were there (in Dealy 
• The PSE showed good to hard 
n each of these statements I also 
oncontroversial statemer,t of Gar­
is a controi: ··oswald was not kilted 
t the movie theater where he was 
11:· anc! found no stress. Garrison·s 
mts about his case against Clay 
rongiy indicated deception 
ran some statements by Clay Shaw 
: his in110:vement in such a conspir­
:1 den)'ing ever knowing or meeting 
rvey Oswald. I also ran a control 
nt. Shaw turned out to be heavily 
i thro~g!"',out. 
vas not particularly surprising. The 
d been accused of conspiring to 
the President of the United Stales 
; being -interviewed about it before 
,:, -;arr.eras. He would have to have 
pretty ecol customer not to show 
stress. even if he were telling the 
:e truth. • . 
rig that both Garrison and Shaw 
1 stress was not an encouraging 
va1id e'7idence linking-Shaw to the assassi- and-so" with ar. accuracy of better than 94 
nation and then, in the time-honored tradi- percent. The problemobviouslywasnotthe 
tiori of prosecutors, invented the refit of his television camera. .. • •• 
case. But Shaw's stress could easily be the I ran the testimony of William Gurvictl on 
resuit of his predicament. and Garrison's the PSE. Gurvich had been Garrison's chief 
might also be the result of some outside aide in the investigation of Clay Shaw until 
issue. The situation was arnbiguous. he resigned. charging Garrison with wrong- . .. 
I ran the testimony of Lee Odom. Odom. doing. He said. ''The truth as I see it is that • 
a 03.!las bu!:inessman, was attempting to M~. Shaw should never have been arrested." 
explain the mysterious coincidence of the He was asked it Garrison had known of cer­
post office box numbers. It seems that the tain illegal and unethical methods Gurvich 
Dallas post office box number 11906 had alleged were being used by Garrison's 
appeared in the notebooks of both Clay staff. He answered, "Yeah, of course he did. 
Shaw al"ld Lee Harvey Oswald. In ~is tes- He ordered it.'" There was no stress in Mr. 
timc!'ly. Odom stated that 'he could not Gurvich's staternents. The PSE showed that 
accc•.J~t for the nurnber appearing in he believed wnat he was saying. 
Oswald's notebook, he knew how ii got into. Obviously I did _not have enough tes-. 
Shaw's. It was Odom's box number. and timony from a large enough number of wit- . 
he had given it to Shaw. whom he'd met nesses to create a detailed picture of the 
by chance on a business trip to New Garrison-Shawaffair,butit.seemsprobable. 
Orleans. The PSE showed hard stress dur- that. at the very least. Garrison did not have 
ing his statement. No unrelated control much of a case against Shaw (a view later 
statement was available for me to run for held by a New Orleans jury) and likely that 
comparison. Shaw was completely innocent of complic- . 
This didn't really clear things up. There ity in the assassination. The lesson of this 
were several obvious alternative explana- • episode is twofold. First, stress .in any one. 
tions for Odom's stress. For example, there person's testimony does not prove decep­
tion. Second, given enough testimony by 
different witnesses, the PSE can arrive at 
' 
Deception is not proved 
by stress, but given 
enough witnesses' testimony; 
the PSE is able • • 
to arrive at the truth 
' 
the truth. • 
The first person I ran on.the PSE who had 
any direct knowledge of the assassination 
was Oswald's . widow. Marina. Unfortu- • 
nately, only one of her statements was on 
the CBS tapes-that Oswald had owned a 
rifle. The PSE said she was telling the truth.· 
The rifle had been one of the major points 
of controversy raised by critics of the War­
ren Report. The debate centered on two 
points: whether the Mannlicher-Carcano • 
alleged to have belonged to Oswald was 
the rifle found by the Dallas police in the 
TexasSchool BookDepository,andwhether • 
---------------- . that particular gun could have been the mur­
had been a number of rather un·savpry der weapon. 
allegations in the press about Clay Shaw, On the tapes, Darrell C. Tomlinson, an 
unrelated to the Garrison charges. Odom employee of Parkland Hospital, testified 
may have felt extremely uncomfortable that he had found a rifle bullet on a strefcher 
aboutlinkinghimselftothismaninanyway. which he believed had carried Govemor 
The coincidence of the box numbers Connally. There was no stress in. his state­
seemed very suspicious. but Bob Smith of ment. The PSE said he was telling the ttUth~ 
the Comminee had pointed out to me that Or. Joseph D. Nicol, Superintendent of 
·both Shaw's and Oswald's notebooks were the Bureau of Criminal Investigation for the 
filled with numbers. so the chance of such State of Illinois. ran ballistic tests on bullet 
a coincidence was not that remote. fragments found in the• presidential limou-
At this point I began to wonder if the tele- sine, and on the intact bullet found by Tom­
vision camera was the "outside issue" in linson. Nicol testified that both the intact 
every case. Perhaps just being on television bullet and the bullet fragments had been 
will so thoroughly rattle the average person fired by the. Mannlicher-Carcano. He. too, 
that, lying or not, he is going to show stress was apparently telling the truth. • 
on the PSE. I checked this out by recording Deputy Constable Seymour Weitzman of 
and charting a number of people on tele- the Dallas police claimed that he found 
vision programs-public officials, men in Oswald's Mannlicher-Carcano on the sixth 
the street, even witnesses to a particularly floor of the Texas School Book Depository. 
gruesome accident. There was occasional However. on the day of the assassination, 
stress. but it never reached the high level he had told the press thatthe rifle he"d found 
I was finding in the assassination tapes. was a German Mauser. The following day 
I also recalled something else which put he signed an affidavit ta that effect. But an 
my mind to rest on this point: the PSE had •. the CBS tapes he testified that he had been 
been used to analyze the statements of con- • mistak~n about that point, that it had real'ly 
i. 
~ 
I 
I 
i 
! 
i· ..• 
