107N 
4. 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
5. 
6. 
SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS .AND CONFIPmlqTIAL SOURCES . 1 
Six-month e~alua!n of informants not paid on Blau auth~ri ty 
If the informant is not being paid on Bureau authorization, a communi­
cation[(FD-40l)]must be transmitted to the Bureau every six months after 
the date of designation containing the same information set out in(section 
130G, item 2b, of this manual]except those items concerning payments. 
Recommendation of SAC regarding continuance of informant· should also be 
set forth U.ACB. In espionage and foreign nationality cases comment is 
necessary regarding only those applicable items in[section 130G, item 
2b, of this manual;] 
Receipts 
When payments are made to anyone for information or assistance on security 
~atters, either on the SAC1 s authority qr on prior Bureau approval, receipts 
must be obtained in every instance in which it is possible to do so. If a 
receipt cannot be obtained for a particular payment, complete circumstances 
should be set forth on the blue slip at the time reimbursement is claimed. 
a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce the receipts in evidence 
during the course of a trial, the receipts will not relate to ·other 
documents or files. 
b. Receipts should clearly show: 
!
1) Date on which payment was made 
• 2) Period for which made when informant is paid on a period basis 
3) Total a.mount paid broken down into separate amounts for services 
or expenses where these items are pertinent 
(4) Name of Agent making payment 
(5) Signature of person receiving the money 
c. Receipts are not to be witnessed by another Agent. 
d. If necessary to make corrections on the receipts, such corrections 
must be initialed by the informant and not by the Agent. 
e. When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of ~xpenses to the 
Bureau,"they should be stapled directly to the blue slip, leaving a 
margin of at least one inch to one and one-half inches at the top to 
avoid contact with the Acco fastener punch. The staples should be 
placed in such a manner that the date or other data appearing on t~e 
receipt will not be mutilated and all information on the receipt can 
be easily read without detaching it from the blue slip. Care must 
be taken -that receipts are of suc·h a nature that they clearly show 
payment of money and do not refer to any other documentary material 
contained in Bufiles. 
Income tax returns 
a. Informants who receive compensation for their services to the Bureau 
should be advised that such compensation must be reported as income 
when filing an income tax return. 
b. Bureau income should be set forth on the Yederal income ·tax 
return, fcrm 1040, as income received from other sources for 
personal services rendered through a private enterprise or 
similar general term applicable to informant's position and station 
in life. _ 
o. If the informant is self-employed and files a schedule Casa self­
emp·loyed individual, it may be possible to include his Bureau income 
with his self-employed income from other sources without revealing 
connection with the Bureau. 
d. Effective 1-1-65, in those instances in which the informant cannot 
report payments received from the Bureau for services without jeop­
ardizing his security as an informant, such payments will be subject 
to a 20 per cent withholding tax. There are four categories of · 
circumstances in which taxes will not be withheld. Taxes are not to 
be withheld from payments ma.de (1) to other than security informants 
and sources, (2) for reimbursement of expenses, (3) under SAC 
authority, or (4) to informants who have been able to report Bureau 
income on their Federal tax returns without jeopardizing their security 
or without challenge from the Internal Revenue Service. Each office 
has detailed instructions and exhibits concerning the procedure to 
be followed in the handling and control of money withheld. 
20 
7-14-69 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1316 . 
.( 
( 
\ 
(_ 
i 
' ! i 
' l -l 
1 
i 
l 
! 
I 
; 
\ -i 
l 
I 
! 
.I 
I 
j 
! ! 
! 
I 
I i 
