, J .. . ... 
SECRET/SENSITIVE 2 ' ' 
young daughter who lived with her grandparents in Russia. In 
1961 she was permitted _to visit Source and his wife abroad, 
and this triggered his defection .. Overall, _the case is one 
where we unwittingly had an agent in place in the KGB who was 
breaking down Soviet compartmentation of the KGB, both in the 
First and in the Second Chief Directorate. His purpose was 
to obtain information of great value to the West should he·. 
have the opportunity to defect. 
' ' 
3. Byway of special talents, he ·is essentially an 
analyst and historian. • H!! was frequently called upon by senior 
members of the service to study and make recommendations where 
there were conflicts over cases affecting more than one depart­
ment. In his·drive to gain more.knowledge outside·of his par­
ticular sphere, he managed. on one occasion to be appointed to 
the Inspector General's team which gave him access to the logs 
of KGB production indicating the overall .espionage production 
• obtained by the KGB. The· investigation was initiated by the . 
· Politburo who complained of the delay in receiving the product 
derived from espionage, such as British Admiralty, Cables and . 
Plans, NATO documents·, etc. This ·gave. Source freedom to in- • 
spect the processing of secret information and to trace its . 
handling from the moment it arrived in Moscow, the transHtion of. 
the product and its preparation for the Politburo. Unfortunately, 
the names of agents were not indicated, but it enabled Source, 
after his defection, to identify the actual documents which were 
identified by Western servi_ces on the· basis of his description. . 
This,. in turn, led to investigative action and important counter­
intelligence successes in the West. 
4. Source has cooperated with some nine intelligence and 
security services under our aegis. He has imparted first-hand 
.knowledge of major covert political programs from the days of 
• LENIN to 1961. This knowledge was acquired from reading deeply 
into the archives and records of the activities of Soviet intelli­
gence services beginning with the Revolution. Equally important· 
• was his long tenure in .the Higher Counterintelligence School ·. 
where he was able to milk.KGB officers from many departments of 
the Service abroad who were brought back for short peri ads of . 
retraining. • 
5. Because the Administration, the State Department and 
the Agency, in part, appear to be firmly entrenched in their 
views regarding the policy of Detente, I believe that .a prelimi­
nary unofficial reading of these materials by an expert in your 
Department might generate an interest in the Source and his views.· 
SECRET/SENSITIVE 
00000-£~ 
