SECRET Jets;;,· pal.mer 
Review of Manuel :Ray y :Rivero Files - Volumes T - XV!II 
May 1, 1978 
Volume XIII - March 1964 - April 1964 
L Memorandum to Acting Chief, Contact Division, dated 6 March 1964 
From: Cincinnati R.A. 
'!'hru: Chief, Detroit Office 
SUBJECT: Castro T'JPe Subversion Likely /Manuela Ray Dangerous Sxile Leader 
now in Puerto Rico 
RSFERENCE: CR-64-2 and ~-iE-1594 
.l\rchitect, Nocholas Quintana, residing in Cuba, told the following to a Mr. 
Raphael Katzen, consulting engineer in U.S. Manuela :Ray is in ;,uintana's 
opinion more dangerous to U.S. than Castro. Ray is not a Soviet type 
Communist according to.Quintana, but his socialism is so extreme and his 
anti-U.S. feelings so deep that he considers Ray a dangerous exile leader, 
at least to the U.S. 
Manuela Ray is known to be of interest to the local FBI (Cincinnati). 
( Check -- is 't~1±s 'CIA· ;;~mo?) 
2. Memorandum for the Record, dated 16 March 1964 
From: Sidney P. Di Ubaldo 
Subject: Contact Report, Meeting with Ernesto Betancourt 
Betancourt has known Ray for several years and adrrQred him through all various 
seasons of their relationship. Betancourt impressed with Ray's organizational 
talents and talents as an engineer .. Says Ray an effective and judicious 
personality and appeals to Cuban exiles of various stripes. Betancourt 
expressed a fear that Ray, in his zeal, might commit himself to such tight 
t:1Jning that he would be forced to undertake action at a disadvantageous 
moment. 
Di Ubaldo com.ents that if Betancourt was leading him on in an attempt to 
sell Ray to him, it was done with a 
11
subtlety to which I am definitely not 
accustomed". 
3. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, d td 17 March 1964. Cisneros told AMTAUP /2 
that CIA had ordered personnel of AMWORLD (Artime's group) boats to fire on 
JURE boats and therefore Cisneros had instructed his crewmen to fire on 
. AMWORID boats wherever encountered. ~,, 
Cisneros had meeting at his home on 15 March, attended by Armando Alanis 
Angulo, Dunney Perez Alamo, Jose Puente Blanco, National Chief JURE youth 
and member of JURE national Executive, and PMrATJP/2. Cisneros related that 
Ramu.lo Betancourt told Ray in Caracas that Betancourt will work in favor of 
JURE. Puente confirmed this. Betancourt promised to arrange urgent meeting 
with U.S. officials in Washington to get promise from them that CIA would 
not sabotage any of JURE's planned operations. 
SECRET 
\ 
l.___ ◄ 
