> • 
• 
therefore, relied upon the experience, expertise, and judgment 
of the various supervisors assigned to the office for the 
day-to-day direction of the various matters under investigation, 
including the investigation of the Black Panther Party. 
It was further explained that if a problem was 
encountered or a particularly unusual situation developed, 
Gebhardt was, of course, consulted and was available for 
such consultation to resolve any particular problem areas. 
Gebhardt was next asked if he recalled being SAC 
when the electronic coverage of the Black Panther Party and 
the various officials at BBP was instituted and eventually 
terminated. Seidel was advised that the electronic coverage 
was already in effect upon Gebhardt's arrival, however, he 
does recall receiving a phone call after the "Keith Decision" 
was handed down instructing that all electronic coverage of 
the BPP and the various members of the BPP be discontinued. 
The call was received from Bureau Headquarters and the 
discontinuance was effected immediately. 
intelligence type investigations should be completely-removed 
from the criminal investigations which investigations would be 
looking toward eventual prosecution. 
\ 
Seidel inquired as to whether Gebhardt felt the 
Seidel was informed by Gebhardt that even in criminal 
investigations looking toward prosecutions, much intelligence 
inforIJ1ation is obtained from time to time which really has no 
value from a prosecutive standpoint, but does have possible 
value with respect to the direction of the investigation. In 
some criminal investigations a great deal of intelligence 
information may be obtained and in other types, very little. 
Insofar as the FBI is concerned, however, every effort is 
made to make certain there is some Federal law which would be 
a basis for an investigation which procedures would include 
matters commonly referred to as security investigations. 
In some instances, in such security investigationa 
a great deal of intelligence information would be obtained 
therefore, it was Gebhardt's opinion that so-called intelli-
.gence type investigations should not be removed from or 
differentiated from criminal type investigations looking 
toward prosecutions since intelligence information is an 
outgrowth of the basic investigation. 
- 2 -
NW 38316 Docld:32989617 Page 110 
