13-00000 
" •. 
ATTACHMENT #1 
CIA'S JFK ASSASSINATION RECORD COLLECTION 
Oswald Files 
Pre-assassination "201" file -approximately 40 documents that existed at the time of 
the assassination. Released in 1992 with minimal deletions. 
DO 201 File {Approximately 26,000 pages): Agency's primary file for documents dealing 
with the assassination or mentioning Oswald; the file is still active. Contains pre­
assassination documents; materials collected after the assassination and during the 
Warren Commission investigation; Mexico City files, Garrison investigation materials 
plus other documents related to the assassination or Oswald received over the years. A 
microfilm copy of file, as it existed in 1978, was sequestered by the House Select 
Committee on Assassination (HSCA}. 
The DO's ,original (record copy} 201 was transferred to HRG in early 1992; a 
declassified version was released in August 1993; it was re-released with fewer 
deletions in 1996 under the authority of the ARRB . Additional documents, filed into the 
201 after the its transfer to HRG, were released in September 1998. 
Office of Security File {2041 pages}: Contained key Oswald documents, FBI 
investigative reports, newspaper clippings. This file, primarily duplicative of the 201, 
was reviewed by the HSCA, but a copy was not sequestered with the rest of the 
Agency's "JFK" collection. The file surfaced as a result of an ARRB request in 1997. A 
declassified version of the file was released in 1998. 
DCD "A" File (41 pages}: A microfilm copy of this Oswald file was in the sequestered 
collection.· The ARRB requested that the original file by reviewed for release. 
Marina Oswald's 201 file. A copy of this file from the sequestered microfilm collection 
was reviewed and released in 1994. The ARRB requested that the original file be 
reviewed for release by September 1999. 
The ARRB directed that the classified originals of all documents f~om the Oswald files 
be transferred to NARA for secure storage. These documents were transferred to 
NARA in October 1998. 
The Sequestered Collection 
At the end of its investigation, the HSCA directed that all materials (files, 
documents, memos, notes, tapes, etc.} collected or prepared in response to its 
investigation be sequestered. This included files made available for review, but not 
reviewed by the HSCA staff. 
JFK boxes 1-63 (hardcopy): These boxes are the core of the Agency's JFK collection. 
They are the working files/materials of the HSCA staff and reflects the wide range of 
issues pursued by the Committee. In addition to Agency documents, they include 
