I 
;107:H 0 SECTION 107 • . swn;TY JNFORM.ANTS[.AND CONFID:ENT' S~URCESJ 
. i;,,) . :..~) 
protect his security. ]'ellcw members ·of the pertinent subversive 
organization may be aware of his unemployment status and v1o·uld expeot 
him to apply. Where a state requires notification of Bureau payments 
to informants that would necessitate disclosure of their identity, 
then Bureau payments should be discontinued during the period they 
receive unemployment compensation benefits. 
Handling money and property received by double agents 
a. Double agents must turn over to the Bureau any money or property 
received from their principals in connection with the double agent 
intelligence operation. This should be made clear to the double 
agent at the inception of the operation (-0onsider obtaining a signed 
statement to this effect). Exceptions to this rule must be specifi­
cally approved by the Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements must 
be made for payrnents to double agents for services rendered to the 
Bureau. 
b. Any money or property receivea by a double agent from his principal 
represents possible future evidence and the double agent should 
execute a statement describing the money received by type of currency, 
denomination, series of issue, and serial number and appropriately 
o.escri bing any other property received. This st_atement should be 
:;igned. by ·the double agent I s code name or number. 
c. Money or property recei-ved from double agents should be retained as 
e-vidence in accordance with section 3, part II, :Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. . _ 
d. Bureau Agents recei-ving·such money or property from double agents 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refresh­
ing recollection in the event testimony is later necessary.] 
SEMIAfHTU.AL LETi'ER 
A semiannual letter should be submitted to the Bureau by each office as 
follows: . . 
1. Liut.the symbol numbers of all security informants and confidential 
sources being paid for services or expenses on a regular basis. If such 
• confidential source has no syrnbol number, ;List his name. 
2. Also list the symbol numbers of all unpaid security informants. 
3 0 Set forth any comments concerning the present status of the informant 
coverage of the office, together with information concerning what actions 
2.re being taken to improve the security informant coverage. 
4. As a separate section of the semiannual letter, list under «Readquarters 
City 11 and each resident agency all sub-versive organizations broken down 
into each di-vision and unit thereof, suoh as clubs, committees, and· 
chapters. 
Under each unit the approximate membership, together with the symbol 
numbe~s and positions of security informants affording coverage, should 
be set out. Where no informant coverage exists or where co....-erage is 
pro-vided by informants or sources who are not members, such factors should 
be shown relati-ve to each unit. 
S.emiannual J.etters may include any aduitional pertinent information re 
informant cover:c>.ge that may be helpful in over-all e-val u~.tion, such as 
informan•~s in other di-visions who are ocoasionally utilized and highly 
placed informants who furnish area-wide, national, or inte~national 
information. 
• C • 
22 
Page 
,. ~? ._.1 ?~f)O 
~',- . -~· ... ;-,_ ... 
) 
) 
