14-00000 
• 
I 
I 
I 
. 
.. SEi'. 28. 1 ~98 3:41PM A SBCRBT 8£1,ISXTXVB ~OFOIUI N0.279 
•• 
United States: 0 In each case you open a file on there •ust 
De a demonstrable CI interest.· Please as5ure that this 
guideline is followed,11eticulously, 11 
Double Agent Branch •# was charged with the 
\ f conduct of and coordination on double agent operations 
abroad. Since the vast majority of DA cases were run by the 
US military services, ehe FBI, or--in some instances-­
-~oreign-liaison services, the branch was very heavily a 
coordinator rather than active runner of operations. 
l t 
98 
G,rea Operations Branch Was charged with 
coordination with the area divisions on matters of CI 
interest, and with stimulating CI disei~lines and praetice5 
in the area divisions and field stations. The centerpiece 
of the branch's activity vas aanage~ent and conduct of the 
CI Survey program. Consisting itsel'f only of the branch 
chief and two elericals, the branch staffed its survey teams 
with detailees from the area divisions and CI Staff officers 
borrowed fro~ other branches of the staff, both Ops and R&A. 
~ountercu;,etation~ Branch Wa~ charged with 
operations designed to counter and disrupt the activities 
abroad of foreign intelligence services inimical to US 
interests. Charles Anderson, an LA Division cffieer who was 
brought in to the staff by Sternfield ~o head the branch. 
had had considerable experience in CA operations, and the 
branch's activities reflected this background, Virtually 
all had a clear CA character, from promotion of a book about 
the Tupamaros and terrorism in Druguay, to a press campaign 
in Europe designed to expose the CUriel apparatus a$ an 
, in8~ru~ent of soviet intelligence, to a paper on the Cuban 
intelligence residency in Chile during the Allend~ regime. 
Primary orientation was tovard Latin Alnerica, vith heavy 
focus on terrorist organizations and activities. Anderson's 
operations tended to be highly imaginative, often complex] 
71 
SECRET SEHSITYV£ NOPORll 
P.24 
