( 
( 
[ 
[ 
NW 88321 
,J a,\ • 
SECURITY INVESTIGA~-• 87D 
jb) Where potential dangerousness of a subject has been 
established and inclusion of that subject in security index 
is warranted, office of origin shall submit a recommendation 
for inclusion in security index by submitting form FD-122 
(c} 
(d} 
(e) 
. (f) 
(g} 
{h) 
to Bureau. Form must be prepared in triplicate. Forward 
original and one copy to Bureau and place oµe copy in sub-
_ject's investigative case file. 
: Nothing should appear on FD-122 or subsequently on security 
index card which is not in subject's case file. Form FD-122 
has two uses: (1) to recommend a subject for inclusion in • 
security inde:x: and .(2) to submit changes to data. which ap­
p~ars on face- of security index cards already existent. 
Proper selection should be made in opening paragraph option. 
FD-122 is submitted with abstract when .used to recommend 
subject for inclusion in security inde!lC and without abstract 
when used to indicate additions, deletions, or changes in 
data appearing on existing cards. 
When form FD-122 is submitted to Bureau recommending inclu­
sion of a name in security index, attach additional page or 
pages setting out a succinct summary of facts on which rec­
ommendation has been based. Facts must be in detail to 
clearl,y show soundness of recommendation. Compl"ete justi­
fication for designated priprity level for apprehension must 
be included. Statements of conclusion-are not enough and 
original sources must be characterized as to reliability. 
Summary must contain pertinent dates of subject's ~ctivities. 
When, at conclusion of investigation, subject's name is not 
being recommended for security index, set out P-. brief summa­
ry statement in appropriate communication closing case show-
ing reasons for decision. ' 
Security index cards shall be recommended by and maint~:ned 
by office of origin only. 
A current(summary]report must be in possession of Bur,,·~u 
when subject is recommended for security index. 
To assure that subject recommended for security index will 
receive proper attention, case shall be kept in pending or 
pending-inactive status until security index card has been 
received from Bureau and filed in office security index. 
If case continues in pending status because of outstanding 
investigation, reports shall carry a lead to· follow author­
ization of security index card· by Bureau and if approved to 
dissemin~te a copy of report to Secret Service in addition 
to other leads. If outstanding investigation has been com­
pleted and case would otherwise be closed upon submission of 
report and form FD-122, case shall be placed in pending­
inactive status with lead to follow authorization of security 
index card by Bureau and if approved to disseminate· copy of 
report to Secret Service. In latter instance, upon receipt 
.of security index card and following local dissemination to 
Secret Service, case may be closed administratively. 
Recommendation for security index card should not be delayed 
because of absence of information concerning race, se:s:, 
citizenship, date and place of birth., or description where· 
security index card is warranted. In such instances, rec­
ommendation for c~rd should be submitted with a current 
report and case retained in pe~ding status with active 
investigation continuing to determine missing items of 
information. 
2053 ~: ~\. 
47 
2-13-70 
I 
-1 
I ! 
! 
\ 
! I 
l i I ! 
! 
I 
i 
! 
I I 
i 
I l 
! 
