( 
( 
a. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
SECTION 107. -~ITY Il1FORl1ANTS SOURCES 
Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further dis­
semination of such information to follow the instructions set forth 
above. . . 
107S 
Also set up a control file regarding this corrective action, and upon 
completion of same submit to the Bureau a final letter under the in­
formant's caption identifying each case by title, character, Bureau file, 
where kno·wn, and date of oommu.nication • 
This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files to see 
that necessary corrective action has been taken in each instance. 
If necessary, other field offices which have receiv~d information from 
the informant should also be requested to submit summary letters show­
ing what corrections have been made. 
It is imperative that all information from the informant be correctly 
labeled and great care must be taken to see tha·t this is done. 
Occasionally, an ex-informant through his spee.ch, writings, or, actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and change ~he evaluation of 
the information attributed to that individual in the absence of a • 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
-to the· Bureau while he was an informant. 
Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and. known u.nreliabi-li ty should be made in accordance with p3;rt II, 
se·ction s,· of the Manual ·of Rules and 'Regulati·ons. 
T. CLASSIFICATION - 134 
U .. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
[ 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
~. Assignment of symbols 
a. A symbol number may be assigned if an unusual security problem 
• exists, or if typing would be saved. . 
b. Advise Bureau by letter giving name, address, business affiliation, 
• symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol number, and a brief 
statement concerning type of information furnished. 
o. • The abbreviation "CS II may be used in intra-Bureau communications 
for confidential source. Communications relating to espionage and 
foreign nationality matters should in addition have a character 
indioating the country involved; e.g., IS - R for Russia, 
a. When a perm~ment symbol has been ·assigned to a confidential source-, 
the abbreviation "CS" is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS NY-000-S. _ .. 
e. Symbol numbers assigned to conf·idential sources are to be taken from­
the series of-symbol numbers used for your security and criminal 
informants. 
3. Index 
a.. Index cards [on form FD-348) like those prepared for informants mu,' 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the oriminal informant inde 
--~--·-· _ _ or the security informant index, depending on the tyP.e of informat ___ n :-.:---::-.-. ,:::--,---~ - • . • . ·furn i shed . • • • • •• • . • • •• • • • • • - .• 
b. The symbol index·s."s handled similarly to the symbol index on infor.m­
ants. • 
~: Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
:.;z._:o:·:··.·::{.:.-_. •• criminal informant index and the security informant index. if the 
• .... •• souroe furnishes information of value in both types of investiga-
( 
NW38321 
tions. 
4. Files 
When active investigation i.s initiated relative to an individual ;,,1:,~ 
has potential as a security confidential source, a L34 classific~~. 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until ::::' ·-_ • . -
to develop the individual are discontinued. The same procedur,." -;::~:.1.-cl. 
he followed concerning racial confidential sources, the classific~tion 
being 137. Files may be opened on confidential sources in criminal 
matters in a manner identical with that for ·handling criminal informant 
files in the discretion of the SAC. 
Page 1458 
27 
5-,,18-62 
"•,; ' 
u 
.•. 
• ..• I 
. i : 
I 
! 
I 
I 
I 
t 
.-.. <--_ l 
i 
·--I 
I 
·I 
! 
• I 
l 
