[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ • [ 
[ 
[ 
10:U SEGTIO!! :t07 •• CURITr INFOPJ'!ANTS AliD SOURCES 
5. UtiJ,.i za ti o: 
a. If con~.lential source Y~ to be used frr assistance in security 
investi~~tions, secure ·oari approval, and b~ckground data must 
be furnished to the Burb~U of the same type which is required 
for potential security in.formants. 
b. Excep·!; in e:,. pion••.(;e and foreign nationali•by matters in which the 
frequency of cont.act i8 depend.en·l; upo'n circumstancen of the i ndi vi dual 
c.,.sc, confit~?ntial so,.,.!'cus on ·,7hom pending files arc naintained should 
also be contac '.:ed at least once every two weeks in ~he same manner 
as s~curity in~ormants. 
o. Records of conl;aot.s ,;i th con:fiden-bial sources who have pend:i.ng fil.is 
mi,vy be pos·!;eo .. 
d .. Contacts with conf:i.dontial sources should only be made by tho .A.gent 
or Agonts specifically designated :for that purpose. 
c. '.i.'h,i letter to the Bure:au reo_ues·bing authority to use a subjcc·l; 
as a. confidential source is to• set ou·l; clearly the following informa­
tion: 
(1) Background information,. 5.!lcluding do:te' and place of birth, 
oitizenshlp status, residence, employment, c::-edit and t•.rres·l; 
record, and service reco1·d, if s.ny 
(2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned individual 
as a confidential so,.u·ce, together vri th the rein:tl ts, of any 
interviews conduc·cea. v:i th him 
( 3) A statement to the o "::'ect subject is being considered a con­
fidential source and th;,,t he will be advised he is not a 
Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relatio~­
ship w:1. th the Bureau. In addition, a s·l;a·l;om1:;nt should be made 
·that you will be aler·t to be certain subject is no·!; a plant, and 
if he is connected with a l?.bor union he will be ad~rised of 
Bureau policy on labor matto-s, 
f. One of the required copies of the let·ter requesting authority to use 
a· eubject as a confidenti?.l sou1·oe should consis•I; only of the first 
pate of the letter. If the reques·I; is approved at the Bureau, a 
st?.mped nota·liion will be placed on the single-page copy and it wiJ,l 
be returned to the field indicating that authoxity is granted to 
consider subject as a confidential.source. Letters requesting suoh 
authority are not to be transmitted to the Bureau until subject is 
sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background informa·cion 
o.btained. . • 
6. Security confidential sources - certification of stability and payments 
a. Every fcur months a letter of jv.stification should be submittc,d to 
·the Bureau requesting continuation of p·ayrnentf: to security cordide,ntial 
sources. See 107N, tiiem]3b, for form of letter. 
b. If the security source is not bei!-.,,: paid on Bureau authorization[ or 
if he is not an employee of a foreign diplomatic establishment or 
an international organization]and is being used regularly, the 
Agent handling the source must dict2.:te a memorandum to the SAG for 
the file containing the same certirication as to stability and 
reliability as required by paymElnt letters. 
[c. If the security confidential source is employed by a foreig·n di,plo­
matic establishment (embassy, consulate, United lfations Mission, 
etc.·} or by an internaiional organization (United Nations Secre­
tariat, Organization of American States, Internation~l Monetary 
Fu,1d, etc.}, a letter of justification should be submitted •to the 
Bureau every four months. See 107N,[item]3b, for form of letter.] 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to soure>es since ·such actions might bo 
misconstrued. 
a. • Discontinuance 
Advise Bureau of the da-::e .-rhen confidential source is discontinued, 
and the reasons therefor. 
28 
5-12-67 NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1304 
, ... 
( 
( 
( 
