( 
( 
[ 
( 
NW 
" ,.•'"''\ 
.ION 87, SECURITY HiVESTIGAT~. 87D 
(5) In evaluating this type of casa~ carefully consider the nature 
anc. aotivitiei:: of the front or£;;.,uization in bchf-llf of the 
Connuni3t Party or other revolutionary organizati6ns throughout 
the country or in a certnin area. 
c. Special training in a subversive ino·vement 
(1) Training in the Lenin School or in a subversive ~ovement abroad 
(2) Leaders~i~ training in one •of the bazic revoluti9nary organiza­
tions mentioned above 
d,. Military service 
(1) Service in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade. Membership in one af 
the basic re-volutio11ary organizations is not a prereq_·:isite. 
to initiating investigations in this category. 
(2) Serrice in the military :/tnrc-:-:J of any country, in.clud}-ng the 
U, s. armed force3 or the Office of Strategic Service~ nhenover 
there is an allegation thnt ~n individual has been a member of 
one of the basic re~olutionary organizations at any time 
e. Employme1it in key fi1.oil:i.ties· • 
Inventigate the activities of any individual employed in. or havin~ 
ac~eso to a key facility who is alleged to have been at any time i~ 
the past a member of any basic revolutionary organization or again ~ 
whom suffioient other subversive information is known. 
f. Other individuals with.revolutionary beliefs 
Individuals who, because of anarchist or revolutionary beliefs, are 
likely to seize upon the opport1.1.nity presented by a national emcr(ency 
to endanger the public safety and. welfare. Membership or affiliation 
in basic revolutionary or front group& is not a prerequisite to 
initiatlng investigations of this type. Use sound judgment an~ dis­
cretion in this evaluation, 
Falling within th0 above category are members of the Nation of Islam. 
When it is known or becomes known that this organization is active in 
the field office territory, a security-type ·: ··,estigation of all 
individuals who ::.re reported to be (1 J func~ • ·-·rn.ries or leaders of 
the lfation of Islam., or (2) active particir,,.: . carrying out fanatical 
and di sloyP,l aims of the organizo tior,_ shou] ·, ,, ini ti?.tcd. .Inve.st:i.ga­
tions should not, be initiated based on mere .,,,1bcrs.hip alone. 
During the course of security investigation; ,l individuals affiliated 
with the N'ation of Islam, be alert for any : .. ~·0rmation indicating 2. 
possible violation of the• Se'.!,ective Service . ..:t. 
The above standards for institutions of investigations of individuais 
are not to be interpreted as all-inclusive. Wh6re there is doubt an 
individual may be a curreµt threat to the internal security of the" 
nation, the question should be resolved in the interest of security 
and investigation conducted. 
The categories specified as a thrqugh f above arc.to be distinguished 
from 
23 
· 3:-13-69 
Docld:32989529 2105 
'· 
--I 
