13-00000 : ., 
0 
12 November 1963 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Cuban Operations 
A meeting was held this morning with higher authority on the 
above subject. Present were: Mr. Rusk, Mr. McNamara, Mr. Robert 
Kennedy, Mr. Bundy, Mr. McCone, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, Mr. 
Vance, General Taylor, Mr. Helms, Mr. FitzGerald, Mr. Cheever, and 
Mr. Shackley. • 
Mr. McCone gave a brief swmnary of recent developments inside,. 
Cuba. He stated that the military is generally loyal to Castro.·· 
There have been some disorders but not very extensive. Castro's . 
internal security forces appear to be well organized. He has devei: 
oped a system of informers which is becoming increasingly effective." 
The economic situation is ·deteriorating largely because of the 
enforcement of economic sanctions, and Hurricane "Flora" although 
its damage was not as great as originally thought. The Soviets 
appear to be continuing the gradual withdrawal of personnel from Cuba 
although recently 1,000-2;000 troops.have couie in. There now seems 
to be a kind of "Soviet MAAG" program concerned mainly with training 
Cubans in all types -of military activity including the handling of 
missiles. There has been· some removal of the more sophisticated types 
of electronic equipment. Some new tanks have arrived in Cuba, esti­
mates run from 25 to 50. 
Mr. FitzGerald reported on Cuban operations under six main 
headings: (a) Covert Collection, (b) Propaganda, (c) Economic Denial, 
(d) Disaffections in the Military, (e) Sabotage and Harassment, and 
(f) Support of Autonomous Anti-Castro Groups. 
(a) Covert Collection. Mr. FitzGerald pointed out that 
inside Cuba CIA has three kinds of agent activities: (1) "singleton" 
(2) collection nets, and (3) agents involved in "black net" operations. 
Whi°le there is encouraglng improvement in the geographical spread of·. 
these agents, there is still, understandably, a fairly heavy concentra­
tion of agents in the Havana area. 
A question was raised as to how many agents in all of 
these activities have been lost. Mr. FitzGerald said that in the 
neig1jborhood of 25 had been either captured or killed in the past year. 
,s-~:-.---, , .,; t,l •• • 
' . .. ... ,· 
EYES OMlY 
