107:N -- 0 
b. Whenever a paid informant and/or source becomes unemployed o:r has 
knowledge of impending unemployment, discusi, all facts with him and 
submit observations anc1 recommendations to Bureau. Unless advised 
to the contrary by the Bureau, follow recommended action. Ea.ch 
office must assume the responsibility of guarding against informant's 
accepting a Bureau payment that v1ould conflict with unemployment 
compensation laws. At the same time, weigh se:riously the possible 
reed for an informant to apply and accept unemployment compensation to 
·,,:coteot his security. Fellow mem1)ers of the pertinent subversive 
c,~:-ganization may be aw2,re of his unemployment status and Vlould expect 
him to apply. Where a st;,d;c requires notification of Burer~u paym.en-'cs 
to informants that would neceseita·te disclosure of their iclcnt:t·l;y~ 
then Bureirn payments s:.oula. be di scontinuea. d.·ur:i.ng the p er.:..oa. they 
receive une1Y1ployrnen t comp ens a:tion ben.efi ·ts. 
9. Handling money and property recei~red by double a-gents 
a. Double agents must turn over ·co the Bureau any money or property 
received from their principals in connection with the double agent 
intelligence ope:r·a·l;io:.• _ This should be made clear to the double 
P.gent at the inceptio~' :. f the opera·tion ( consider obtaining a signec!. 
statement to this eff. • .) 0 Exceptions to this rule must be specifi­
cally approved by the 1:,.n·eau 0 Entirely • ,:,pa.rate arrangemen·l;s must 
be made for payments to double agents fo.:: services reno.ered ·l;o the 
Bureau. 
b 0 Any money or property recei-ved by a double agent from his principal 
!'€.}resents possible future evidence and ·the double agent should 
ex,~ciute a statement describing the money recei -ved by type of currency, 
denomination, series of issue, and serial number and appropriately 
describing any other property recei vea.. This statemep. t should be 
signed by ~he double agent's code name. 
c. Money or -property received from double agents should be retained as 
e-vidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
d. Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from doubie agents 
should make independent records for retention for purposes of refresh­
ing recollection in thee-vent testimony is later necessary. 
0. SEMIANNUAL LETTER 
A semiannual letter should be submitted. to the Bureau by each office as 
follows: 
1. List the symbol numbers of all security informants and confidential 
sources being paid under ~~reau authority (not SAC authority) for 
services .or expenses. I'f the confidential source has no symbol 
number, list his name, 
2. Also list the symbol numbe .. :if all security informa1ir.s not paid 
unde_r Bureau authority. 
3. Set forth any comments co1., .. :.ning the prt, ont ;;-+,a,tus of the informant 
coveraie of the office, to 0 -:.·ther with inforrna·', on concerning what actions 
are being taken to improve the seouri ty inforh,c.J.1.t coverage. 
4. As a separate section of the semiannual letter, list under "Heaa.~uarters 
~ity" and each resident agency all subversive organizati6ns broken down 
into each division and unit thereof, such as clubs, committees, and 
chapters. 
Under each unit tlv' approximate· membership, together with the symbol 
numbers and posi-1·' r,ris· of security informants affording coverage, ~'.:<',11d 
be set out. Wh,-" no informant coverage exists or where covera;" 
provided by inf" ·.:::i.ts or sources who are n-ot members, such fac7~::- .. ould 
be shown relat: ·, ·, o each unit. 
Semiannual letters may include any additional pertinent information re 
informant coverage that may be helpful in over-all evaluation, such as 
informants in other divisions who are occasionally utilized and highly 
placed informants who furnish a:rea-wid.e, national, or international 
information. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1541 
22 
5-18-62 
( 
