13-00000 
SECRET 
to say·"how about an estimate of some kind." Ray was 
the wrong guy because Ray and Sherman didn't see eye to 
eye on anything. But anyway the word got around, and I 
think we can take credit for prodding Sherman and his 
staff to do an estimate on all of these crazy reports 
that nobody could figure out what the hell's happening. 
MW: You mean the many reports from Cubans·coming out of 
Cuba about missiles being seen here or there and 
everything else. 
SH: Yes, there was all kinds of stuff coming out. They 
were seeing planes when no planes had arrived yet. The 
reports were confusing to say the least. And somebody, 
without an ax to grind, like the DDI's supposed to be, 
had to put it together. 
BL: Were there c.leared DI officers who knew about Mongoose, 
who knew why (overlapping sound) going on? 
SH: I don't know if we kept a record of that, but obviously 
the DDI knew; Sherman Kent knew, and I think the Cuban 
desk officers knew. There were enough. We weren't 
playing that kind of a game. The Pentagon did. I know 
that for a fact. The Pentagon really had Mongoose -
cleared officers to do things. Colonel Wright, for 
example (the guy who actually pushed through the report 
that targeted the U-2), he's the guy who presented the 
(lost word??). We did it on the grounds that it's in 
our report and it would look bad if we did it. Nobody 
listened to us, so we had Colonel Wright do it. He was 
very happy to do it, and he later took credit for the 
whole damned thing. He never mentioned CIA in his own 
biography that he wrote about what he had done. The 
report came in - he never knew where the report came 
from - but a report came in! Anyway, no, we kept our 
DDI counterparts pretty well informed on what the hell, 
not what we were doing, but in terms of what the U.S. 
Government was doing, so that everybody was putting 
their shoulder to the wheel - that kind of thing. We 
didn't get into the details. We later did, when, after 
the Cuban.Missile Crisis, and Des Fitzgerald took over, 
Des actually brought down, I forget the guy's name - he 
was a very, very senior elder statesman of the DDI, and 
Des went out of channels without so much as a "By your 
leave to anybody, and a lot of the troops objected, and 
Des - made available to this gentleman the true 
-identities, plus the source descriptions we used for 
the assets. 
11 
SECRET 
