13-00000 
The fact that agency classification policies often cannot withstand scrutiny even 
within the executive branch points to the root of the problem. The problem is not that 
classifiers are dishonest or acting in bad faith; in general, they are doing a thankless 
job the best they can. 
The problem rather is the natural and often unconscious tendency of all 
bureaucracies to limit the flow of information to outsiders. As Sen. Moynihan observed, 
aThe problem is that organizations within a culture of secrecy will opt for classifying as 
much as possible, and for as long as possible. •3 If they go unchecked, agencies will 
hoard information beyond all reason, which is how we got to where we are today. 
Fortunately, Ms. tv1azer's remarks also reveal a solution to this unavoidable 
problem, and that is independent review of agency classification decisions. The record 
of the ISCAP demonstrates that unnecessary classificatien can be reduced or 
eliminated when ·contested classification actions are reviewed by aoutsiders• who share 
the agency's commitment to national security, but who do not'share its Weberian 
tendencies toward bureaucratic secrecy. 
Only such independent reviewers are capable of separating. the national security 
wheat from the bureaucratic chaff. I believe that this is a crucial principle which should 
• inform Congressional action in this area. 
3. Congress is free to legislate on secrecy policy. 
The Justice Department "strongly opposes a statutory framework for the 
safeguarding of national security information; arguing in effect not only that the 
President has the authority to set and implement classification policies, but that he has 
exclusive authority to do so. 4 • • 
The Committee should recognize that this is a natural and predictable resppnse 
from the executive branch, which seeks to preserve its prerogatives and to maximize its 
own freedom of action. But I believe the Justice Department overstates its case. 
3Report of the Commission on Protecting and Reducing Government Secrecy 
("Commission Report"), 1997, Chairman's Foreword, page xxxix. Available in 
searchable "htmi- forry,at at <http://www.fas.org/sgp/library/moynihan/index.html>. 
44'Subjecting the protection of national security information to statutorily-required 
standards or procedures would raise constitutional concerns to the extent that it would 
limit the President's ability to discharge a core constitutional responsibility as he sees 
fit.· Memorandum from the Deputy Attorney General on the Government Secrecy Act of 
1997, September 15, 1997. 
3 
