.( 
.[ 
[ 
[ 
B7. SP.GURI'.tY 87D 
(b) Where.pot~ntlal ~an~crouEness of a cubJeat has been 
cstabliE~~d Rnd inoluuion of that subject in security 
index i::: ,·1:-;.r:r.-..,.ntcu., ·Lhc office of origin shall submit a 
reco~nend~ti0u for inc)nsion in security index by sub­
mitting for,,; FD-122 to Bure:;.u. F'orm must l>"c prepared 
{c) 
(d) 
( e) 
(r) 
in tr:i.plic,."i.c. O:L'i~:i1w.l and one copy sliall be forwarded 
to Bureau ~nd one copy will be placed in subject 1 s 
investiga.ti'Tc case file, 
Nothing should appear on FD-122 or subsequently on the 
security index card which is not in the subj~ct 1 s case file, 
Form FD-122 hc>.s two use:;: ( 1) to rccor,-1,11end a. sv.bjec;t for 
incluoio;;i :i.n the security index and (2) to subm·:..·l; chaugcs 
to data which appears on face of security index cards 
already existent. 
Proper selection should be made in the opening p~ragraph 
option. :F'D-122 iii subm:i.tted wi'~h abstract when used to 
reconm1encl ·i;he subject .for inclusion in the security incl.ex 
and without abstract when used to indicate additions, 
deletions, or changes in data appearing on existing cards. 
When. form FD--122 is submitted to Bureau recommenc"i.ing in­
clusioh of a name in security index, attach an additional 
page or pages setting out a. succinct summary of fact~ on 
which recoram.endatic::i haB been based. Facts must be in 
detail to clearly[show)sounclness of recommendation; 
·Statemehts of conclusion are not enough and original sources 
_must be. characterized as to reliabili·l;y .. Surome.ry must con­
·l;ain peri:inent dates o:f°.iiu.bjec·c; 1 s activi·l;ies, 
i-f.nen, at cor,clusion of investigation, subjec;t's name is not 
being reuonunended for security index, set out a brief 
summary stn.tement[in the appropriate communication closing 
the cas0)showing reasons for the decisio~. 
Security index cards shall be recom,Jlended by and maint~dned 
by office of origin only. • 
• .. (g) 
.lvcurren·~ report mu.st be in possession of the Bureau when 
subject is recomraenu.ed for security index. If i'i; il:l the 
initial repor·~ in ·!;he ~ase, it must be a summary repo:ct, 
If~ however, prior investigative roports have been sub­
mitted which are suitable for dissemination and are 
appropri2.tely documen·l;eds a sum.,mry .report need no·t pe 
submi tte c1. 
To assure that subject recommended for :rncurity index will 
receive proper attention, case shall be kept in pending or 
pending-inactive status until security index card has been 
received from. Bure~u and filed in office security index, 
( 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
(h) 
If case continues in pending status because of outstanding 
investigation, repo:cts shall carry a lead to follow author­
ization of securi•ty index card- by the Bureau in ad.di tion to 
other leads,.,· If outstandi·ng investigation has been compli. • ,!d 
and case would o,herwise be closed upon submission of the· 
report and form FD-122, case shall be placed in pending­
inactive status with lead to follow authorization of security 
index card by Bureau. In latter instance, upon receiit of 
Bureau's response, .ca.so may be closed administratively. 
Recommendation for :;ccurity index card should not be delayed 
because of ab~encc of information concerning race, sex, 
pitizenship, date and place of birth, or-description where 
security index card is warracted. In such instances, rec­
ommendation for the card. should be ~ubmitted with a cu:-rent 
report a~d case ~~taineJ in pending statu~ with aotive 
investigation continuing to determine missing items of 
inf or:::w. ti on. 
111 
47 
9-13-62 
.. , 
