( 
[ 
[ 
( 
( 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
.( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
::i 
SECTIOH 10,. SECURITY INFOR!-"!A.NTS AND SOURCES. 107G 
tions of statement which apply to particular individual· or organiza­
tfon. Of course, ontire statement should be filed in inforrr.ant's sub­
file. This procedure should be eoployed unless logical reason 
dictates otherwise. [When preparing lengthy channelizing memor-
anda reporting material of interest to other offices, limit the 
number of copies prepared for each other such office to two. Clearly 
indicate next to the name of the receiving office, the number of 
the page containing information pertinent to that office ana note 
on cover page that distribution of material to the receiving field 
office files is left to discretior. of the receiving office. If 
the channelizing memorandum includes names of individuals who merely 
attended a meeting or gathering and played no impor·tn.nt role, the 
reporting office is to attach to the· channelizing rnemorand1.1,-n a one­
page memorandum listing the na:nes of all individuals who vrere merely 
in attendance and had no important function. The preparation and 
distribution of the additional copies of the one-page attachment 
are left to the discretion of the receiving office .. ) • 
g. Prior to any prosecution or administrative he-aring, advise· trial 
attorney that informant not only furnished information concerning 
instant case put also provided other statements not pertinent to 
case at issue. Trial attorney 0ill thus be prepared in event in­
formant testifies on direct examination or cross-examination that 
he furnished information in addition to his testimony. 
2. Re cording written and ora 1 inf orma ti on , 
.a. Written by informant . .· . . . . 
{1} May be in handwriting or hand printing of informant or typed. 
(2) Original only should be submitted and informants should never 
retain any copies or notes relating thereto. Continuously 
c:P,eck informants to see that they do not keep _a_ny notes or 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
(6) 
(7) 
(10) 
{11) 
(12) 
copies. 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or identifica­
tion. 
Date v.hen informant prepares statement should be placed at. 
top of statement. 
All information obtained by informants regarding each meeting 
or separate activity in which they engage should be sub­
mitted in one statement. 
Informants should include in statements specific dates and 
places; purpose of meeting or activity being related; iden-
tit,ies of speakers and persons present, plus their kno;-m status 
in any group; and specific activity or comments of individu~ls 
pre~ent. . 
Informant should identify statement by affixing his. code name 
imrnediately under the last written line on each page. Any cor-
rections, erasures, changes, or additions should be identified 
by informant affixing his code name or initials of his code name. 
Agents' names should never appear on any page. 
Informant should refer to himself in body of statement by his 
true name and use third person. 
Agent receiving written statement should not make any' corrections, 
additions, deletions, etc., or place any markings whateYer there on. · 
Do not block stamp or serialize. Receipt and serializa-tion 
should be recorded on form FD-306 or on channelizing memorandum 
containing applicable items set forth on form FD-306. 
Extraneous material should be kept to absolute minimum. Informants 
should leave out such items as: 
{a} Any reference concerning Director and Bureau 
(b) References to other documents and statements submitted by 
informant 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1146 
9 
11-15-71 
