---- --- ---
,r ~--~. ~-
NW 
r 
Domestic Intelligence Division 
and nonsensitive areas. This is still an undecided issue although several bills 
have been introduced into Congress to remove the distinction between sensitive 
and nonsensitive areas of Federal employment. Undoubtedly, the Greene 
decision in -the Supreme Court carrying the strong inference that confrontation 
is necessary in security-type hearings has slowed up consideration of legislation 
in this field by the Department. This is essentially a Departmental problem 
and we feel the Bureau's position again should be that the Department should 
meet these issues rather than coast along in a state of indecision. 
(5) In the field of legislation involving security, by letter dated September 2, 
1959, the Bureau proposed to Deputy Attorney General Walsh the following items, 
which the Director might wish to point out to the Attorney General. While bills 
were introduced into Congress on some of these items, legislation has not been 
completed as to any of them. 
(a) It is desirable that Title 18, Section 791, United States Code, be 
amended to extend the jurisdiction of the Federal courts over acts of espionage 
against the United States wherever committed. 
{b) Amendment of the Foreign Agents Registration Act to clarify 
and make more specific the definition of a !'Foreign Principal" and to further 
clarify the exemption to registration afforded business representatives. 
(c) Legislation is suggested which would permit the Secretary of 
state to consider security factors in the granting of passports; however, 
appropriate provisions should be made to protect FBI informants and sources 
in this connection. This matter is mentioned in the Bureau's memorandum 
to Walsh dated May 26, 1959, regarding H. R. 7006. 
~ 
{d) Another suggestion is legislation to str~ngthen the Smith Act of 
1940 by defining the word "organize" and the word "advocacy. " A definition 
of "organize" was introduced as H. R. 2369 and as So 1300. S. 1305 attempts 
to define "advocacy. " 
(e) -Legislation is needed which would prohibit former Government 
employees from disclosing to unauthorized individuals certain information 
obtained by them in the course of their employment. 
(f) L_egislation is needed to amend the espionage laws so as to 
provide punishment for persons who gather and correlate data from legitimate 
sources for transmittal to foreign governments. 
