0 
The management of the air proprietary at this time was in the 
OPC structure and was therefore responsive to operations. An 
example of some of the problems which were created as a result 
of this is the acquisition in August of 1950 of the entity. 
Houston was participating in the negotiations. He had been in­
vited to do so by Frank Wisner. 
OPC was a curious organization. Determined as being 
attached to the Agency for quarters and rationing 
with policy guidance from State, which was an impossible 
situation. Very nice fellows were doing the negotiating 
with Wisner -- Frank Lindsay and Chad Breckinridge, who 
is now dead. Frank Lindsay has been head of ITEK and 
quite unknown to me, when they made the agreement to • 
purchase carrying out the option, they gave the vendors 
the right to repurchase at any time ~ithin two· years. 
And I thought this was.really inconsistent with our whole 
position. And during the -next two years they negotiated ··_ 
out that repurchase agreement and in its place substituted 
an agreement to ·gi_ve them a first refusal, if we were to 
dispose of the airline. That first refusal plagued us for 
years. They use to make all sorts of extraordinary claims 
under it and it was never exercised and eventually it was 
sort of forgotten when Chennault and Willauer died. It 
ran to them personally, whether it ran to them and two 
others personally, and they all are dead now. But this­
shows a part of the learning curve, which was. thing we 
were going through. It also be.came clear that the organi­
zation of the airline was really impossible, it's sort've 
semi~formal partnership with the Ministry of Transportation 
or the Ministry of Communications_ (of the Nationalist Chinese 
Government).* 
That basically describes the preliminary situation from the period 
1950 through 1954. It was.in 1954 that George Doole first came 
onboard as a consultant. Doole and Houston went to the Far East in 
the summer of 1954 to observe the operation. "George went out there 
* The Nationalist Chinese had by this time retr~ated to Taiwan, they 
maintained a maintenance base tied to Hainan "'fhe maintenance base • 
at that time was on a LST and a great big steel barge. And we brought 
.the LST and the steel barge up to Kiaoshung, and it was really extra­
ordinary what a maintenanc~ job they did on what was almost impossible 
facilities. I went down and was enormously impressed by the difficul-
• h ·11 h d h 
11 
..;.. .1 ' ' ''-. ties and ow we they a overcome t em, 'M--u../\ Jti-t}.~t-:0 ;:}i'I. 
lffl 509ij5 Docld:32423532 Page 147 
