5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
W 38321 
SECTION 1- SECURITY INFORMANTS AND COme~NTIAL SOURCES 
Utilization 
a. If confidential source is ·to be used for assistance in security 
or raotal investigations, secure Bureau approval, and background 
data must be furnished to the Bureau of the same type which is 
required for potential security and potential racial "informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters "in which the 
frequency of ~ontact is de:pendent u:pon oiroumstances of the in,.d:i.vid.ual 
caseP confidential sources on whom :pendirig files are maintained should 
also be contacted at least once every two weeks in the same manner 
as security informants. 
c. Records of contacts with confidential sources v1ho have pending files 
may be posted. 
d. Contacts with confidential sources should only be made by _the Agent 
or Agents specifically designated for that purpose. 
e. The lette:r to the B·u.re-au requesting authority to use a subject 
as a oo:n·fidenti·al source is to set out clearly the fo1lowi-ng· info·rma-
tion: • 
(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, 
citizenship status, residence, employment, credit and arrest. 
record, and service record, if any . 
. ( 2) Details of the expected cooperation of captioned ind·i vi dual 
as a confidential source, together with the results of any 
interviews conducted with_ him .. . . ... .· ... . 
( 3-} A statement to the effect subject is being consid·ered a con­
fidential source and that he will be advised he is not a 
Bureau employee and of the confidential nature of his relation­
ship with the Bureau. In addit:j.on, a statement should be made 
that you will be alert to be certain subject is not a plant, and 
if he is connected with a labor union he will be. advised of 
Bureau policy on labor matters. 
f. One of the required copies of the letter requesting authority to use 
a s 1ubjeot as a confidential source should consis•l; only of the first 
page of the ietter. If the request is approved at the Bure~u~ a . 
stamped notation will be placed on the single-page copy and it will 
be returned to the field indicating that authority is granted to 
consider subject as a confidential source. Letters requesting such 
authority are not to be transmi ·l;ted to the Bureau until subject is 
sufficiently cooperative and all necessary background -~nformation 
obtained. • 
Security and racial confidential sources - certification of stability and 
paymen·l;s . . . 
a. Every four months a letter of justification should be-submittecj. to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of pa-yment·s to security and raoial 
confidential sources.· See 1071{, 3b, for form of letter. 
b, If the security or racial source is not being paid on Bureau authoriza­
tion and is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source must 
dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containin~ the.same 
certification as to stability and reliability as required by :payment 
letters. • 
Gifts 
[Gifts should not be given· ·to sources since such .actions -might be 
misconstrued,] -· - • 
Discontinuance 
> .. 
( 
, C 
_., -- ~,,,, -4, ', 
... ~ .... ~--::.. ;...........:;,::: 
Advise Bureau when confidential source :j,s discontinued,. and the rea..;.~9ns 
therefor .. 
•,A•-·•.-:; "":'~~--..-..-1 
1558 
28 
7-15-63 
"::'•_,_.:x 
I 
' 
