13-00000 ., 
important exception of the FBI and the 0A. I will elaborate on the status of records 
held by these two agencies later. The overwhelming majority of previously redacted 
information will have been made public by the Review Board. • 
III. Release of Government Records Related to the Assa!fflination 
Before discussing what we will accomplish with one final year, I would like to highlight 
for the Members of the Subcommittee some of the important records that the Board has 
made public. They include: 
.. 
.. 
.. 
Thousands of CIA documents on'i.ee Harvey Oswald and the assassination of 
President J(ennedy that made .up the CIA's Oswald File and detail the agency's 
investigative activities following the assassination; 
Thousands of once-secret records from the investigaµon by the House Sel~ 
Committee on Assassinations;durlred,by-Gongressmlin-Stokes; including therntit :::.;:r.:,~~'-:::: ,: • 
tr ersia1 Staff R . rt·· . 'O . ·--1d· ";,. ~t'ZM- ... ~~--a•f-it• , .. ',J:_. -:--.--: .·.·-:-r-. ';l.::;v,,- .. -. ,-~l-'.·;c• con ov _. epo on . SWa..1. "'i> u:&,t'•' ~-- .. t:Al'-V •JI . . • - - • .. , -•-':~-- -•.• ··i ' 
Thousands of records from the FBI's core and related assassination files that 
document the FBI's interest in Oswald from 1959-63, after he had defected to the 
Soviet Union, three years before the assassination; and 
The extensive FBI files on its investigation of the assassination. 
The important work in which the Review Board has been engaged can be best and ~ost 
graphically demonstrated by showing you the '"before" and "after'' versions of one of 
the pre-assassination FBI documents to which I just referred and that the Board has 
released to the public. Prior to the Review Board's review, this FBI document OFK 
Collection Record Number: 124-10023-10236, Attachment Number 1) was available to . u 
the public as you see it on the left. As you can see, it is heavily redacted. The only 
information that was not secret was the date of the memorandum, ''October 12, 1960," 
that it was to the "Director, FBI," from "Legat, Paris" (the FBI representative in Paris), 
that the subject was "Lee Harvey Oswald, Internal Security," and that it had to do with 
a "Paris letter 9 /27 / 60." The rest of the text was b~cked out. Obviously, this version 
of the document left room for a great deal of speculation among historians and 
researchers regarding what was underneath the black ink on this document with the 
provocative subject title. 
The Review Board aggressively pursued the release of the redacted information in this 
document and several others that relate to the FBl's·interest in Oswald before the 
assassination. After protracted negotiations with the FBI, an initial FBI appeal to the 
White House in an effort to keep the document secret, and a direct appeal to the Swiss 
3 
