SECRET 
3. The Central Intelligence Agency: 
A. Completed efforts to improve U.S. government communica­
tions in Latin America by the installation of the remaining 
two commercial leased circuits into Guatemala City and 
Managua, and the stationing on a permanent basis of 35 CIA 
radio operators in Latin America in replacement of temporary 
duty personnel. In November 1962, CIA's active radio facilities 
in 20 Latin American capitals were augmented with on-line 
cryptographic facilities and temporary personnel to handle the 
bulk of all U.S. government communications in the area. These 
facilities, known as Joint Communications Centers, are now 
being operated by CIA on a 24-hour basis, as a service to 
all U.S. government agencies. Latin American traffic handled 
by the CIA base radio station near Washington has increased 
from 3,000,000 groups handled in October· 1962 to 15,000,000 
groups handled in March 1963. 
B. Increased its efforts designed to control the movement 
of persons, arms and propaganda materials to and from Cuba. A 
summary of actions by country follows: 
1. Argentina - Station, in conjunction with the Embassy, 
has continued to press the Argentine government to enact 
effective travel control legislation and to adopt measures 
recommended by the Special Consultative Committee on Security 
of the OAS. Information on Argentines travelling to Cuba is 
being furnished to the Argentine government by the station. 
Several potential travellers to Cuba have been spotted and 
are being assessed by the station. Information from three 
recent returnees from Cuba is being obtained through debriefings. 
Station reports that because of increased Mexican controls, 
all truly clandestine travel to Cuba from Argentina is now 
via Prague. The Argentine Security Service has informed the 
station that mail censorship and customs controls at the 
docks and airports are 95% effective in preventing the 
entrance of Cuban propaganda through these channels. Local 
dissemination of propaganda is regulated by an Argentine 
inter-agency committee, which reviews any new propaganda 
items and takes action to stop dissemination of any item 
judged to be pro-Cuban or pro-Communist. During May the 
Argentine government issued a new decree which restricts 
Communist activities within Argentina. The station has continued 
to press the Security Service to urge regulation of travel 
to Cuba, but the adoption of such measures has been delayed 
pending government receipt on an official basis of the OAS 
recommendations. Through several assets the station is working 
on leads which it is hoped will reveal the basic sources of 
illegal arms sales in Argentina. 
SECRET 
NW -~095-~ Docld.: 32424015 Page 10 
