13-00000 
,I. 
SECRET 
SUBJECT: (S) Warrenton Training Center Cover Considerations 
cover operates solely on the ability to sustain plausible denial. 
In. spite of previous rumors of an Agency affiliation, categorical 
denial of such has worked to the point that the media currently 
refers to WTC as a ."Top Secret military installation." In 
addition, the public~at-large truly believes that WTC is a 
military installation. Given a generally inquisitive media 
(one radio station, two newspaP.ers -- all with connections to 
affiliates in the Washington Metropolitan Area) and recent 
publicity over a WTC ground water contamination issue,. the re­
lease of references to "Warrenton" in the JFK-related documents 
would precipitate an unwelcome focus on WTC. This would lead to 
the real possibility that cover would be compromised. 
4. (S) With the closure of Vint Hill, WTC is the sole 
remaining federal facility in the Warrenton area. As a result, 
the affiliation of Agency records or "Records Center," under any 
ruse, will provide a direct link to the Warrenton Training 
Center. This will pose severe problems for installation 
activities. While the Agency Archives and Records Center is 
located at Station "A," the media frequently refers to WTC in its 
entirety. Activities at the other three WTc.· Stations that would 
be compromised are as follows: 
a. Station B serves as the principal training site for 
the Office of Communications, DTSPO, and the Department of --... . . .. 
State. However, it also is the site of sensitive activities 
engaged 1.n by personnel from the Directorate of. Operations, 
the Office of Engineering and Development, the Directorate 
of Intelligence, and .the Office of Technical Collections. 
It is also a training site for.covert employees from all 
Directorates, to include for'eign language immersion for 
officers assigned overseas. In addition, sec'ret Community­
wide conferences are held at this low-profile location.· 
Within the past year, conferences have ranged from the 
Agency's NOC Conference to the Senate Select Committee on 
Intelligence to the strategic planning meeting by Community 
Executives, Ambassadors, and members of the White House 
Cabinet in preparation for the Bosnian Peace Talks. 
b. Station C serves as the Agency's primary 
transmission site for world-wide communications. 
2 
