SECRET - SENSITIVE 
which would accomplish the activities. This was because, if anything 
were discovered by virtue of the action which would lead to a prosecution, 
the action should be taken by the FBI, since the Department of Justice 
would have responsibility for the prosecution. 
The only possible exception to the absence of any "breaking and entering" 
by the CI staff was the[TgfJ:lJcase. 0:T:,ofij£lvas a long term employee of 
the Agency, who put his house up for rent. Coincidently, another Agency 
employee went to look at the house for possible rental. In the course of so 
doing, the second employee found that there were quite a number of 
classified documents on the third floor of the house. The employee then 
reported what he found to the Agency, which sent personnel over to recover 
the documents. (The docume,nts related to world-wide proprietaries of 
;.-;t ~ ,-,t'"" ' V,"17 .':,,, ', :.;·.-,, 
the Agency with which [I'9'.fti:,Jiad been involved. Ultimately/~~;6.ft_ij;explained 
that he intended to write a book about these matters and that was why the 
records were in his home.) The Agency undoubtedly did not have time 
to advise the Bureau much in advance (if at all) of the Agency's effort to 
recover the subject documents. Stein also noted that this incident did not, 
in fact, involve "breaking and entering" since the house was already opened 
to allow prospective renters to examine it. 
Stein said that he had found no instances of physical surveillance done by 
the CI staff, although the staff would probably have been aware of surveillance 
accomplished by other agency components or by the Bureau. Stein cited 
as an example an instance where a female Agency employee was found to 
be living with a man who could well have been working for a foreign 
Government. The Office of Security, therefore, put a surveillance on her hous 
for approximately three weeks. Discussions were also had with an informant 
within the Agency concerning this employee .. (Files on this case would be 
maintained by the Office of Security). 
Stein found no evidence of any electronic surveillance or telephone taps 
accomplished domestically by the CI staff, The staff had no personnel 
who could actually take any action. The staff, in this regard, would 
0
have had an advisory capacity, if it participated at all. The Cl staff 
would simply advise the Bureau or other components of the Agency such 
as the Office of Security or the Office of Technical Services. In such 
instances the CI staff would not hold the file, except perhaps a memorandum 
relating to the particular case, but Stein found no such memoranda. 
SECRET - SENSITIVE 
2. 
Hll' 50955 Docld:32105622 Page 3 
