87I 
( 
[ 
SEv.n 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATION. 
Determine during security investigations v;hether subjects have any 
close relatives in armed forces. Promptly ca.11 such associations 
to attontion of appropriate military intelligence services, together 
with pertinent data, including reports, on subjects involved. Eval­
uation of these associations lies entirely within province of mili­
tary intelligence services, but Bureau must disseminate-this infor­
nation immediate·ly upon receipt. Advise Bureau by letter concerning 
any subversive contacts or information developed concerning milita.ry 
personnel, including statement as to local disnemination and enclosing 
LHH setting out f?Ubversive data. 
b. Aliens and naturalized citizens 
Furnish information concerning aliens and naturalized. •citize·ns which 
might have bearing on their deportation or[denaturalization)to Immi­
gration and N"aturalizati on Service (IHS). If in doubt, disseminate.· 
c. Employees of or persons having regular access to key facilities or 
employees of plants having contr~cts with military services 
See instructions in this section concerning individuals employed in 
or having access to key facilities. . 
d. Employees of public utilities (including state and municipal 
facilities) which are not on key·facilities list or otherwise in 
item c, above, and facilities vrhich are or may become engaged in 
manufacture of materials vital to national defense 
Disseminate locally to Army and other intelligence services ~f their 
interest is apparent. 
e. ·Individuals on inactive duty who are members of· or hold commissions 
in reserve branches or National Guard 
Disseminate locally to appropriate military intelligence ·service. 
f. Seamen and subjects employed in maritime industry, incl~ding long­
shoremen and water-front employees 
Disseminate locally to Coast Guard and, when circumstances dictate, 
to other interested intelligence agencies, including NISO. 
g. Employees of Federal Government within purview of Executive Order 10_450 
No dissemination of reports in security of Government employees 
-cases-may be made in field. If, however, subject is employed in key 
facility, furnish copies of reports bearing dual character, "Security 
of Government Employees; Security l'-"iatter - C," to appropriate_ intel­
ligence agencies of armed services. Instructions regarding dis­
semination to Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office, Defense 
Supply Agency, Columbus, Ohio, appear in this section of this manual 
under individuals employed in or having access to key facilities -
dissemination. Instructions regarding all phases of FB~ responsibil­
ities u~der Executive Order 10450 are in section 19, volume II, of 
this manual. 
h. Individuals who own property or ·reside in immediate vicin_ity of 
installation or other premises under cognizance of branch of armed 
services 
Disseminate locally to .intelligence service of military branch in­
volved. 
i. Airmen issued certificates by Federal Aviation Administration (Fil) 
FAA issues certificates to airmen, defined as persons in comil).and or 
acting as[pilot,]mechanic, or member of crew in navigation of air­
craft while under way; indi-.iduals directly in charge of inspection, 
maintenance, overhauling, or repair of aircraft, aircraft engines, 
propellers, or appliances; and any individual serving in capacity 
of aircraft dispatcher or air-traffic control tower operator. I<'urnish 
to Bureau subversive data concerning such persons by report or LHM. 
In cover com.~unication, recommend such data be furnished to Fil. 
Dissemination will be made only at Bureau. For additional instructions 
regarding dissemination to Fil, see Manual of Rules and Regulations,. 
pa.rt II, section 5. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1953 52 
12-14-70 
( .... 
( 
( 
