• 
Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall 
RE: SENSTUDY '75 
•• 
In this regard, in an exchange of letters dated 
3/11 and 12/75, Willi~ Colby in his role as the Director 
of Central Intelligence_, wrote to Senator Church stating . 
that "I am particularly appreciative of your recognition 
that certain sensitive aspects of our intelligence activities 
must receive special consider~tion and treatment by the Select 
Committee in the course of your work. As we discussed, $Uch 
matters as the identities of our sensitive sources ....• 
should be protected not only from exposure, but indeed from 
the risk of exposure .. we should.also work together to protect 
certain other information which, if improperly disclosed, 
might impair the privacy rights of the individuals." 
By letter dated 3/12/75, Senator Church stated as 
follows, "It is the Committee's understanding that the members 
of the Committee and designated staff will have access to any 
or all tnformation which the Committee deems necessary for its 
inquiry. We recognize, however, that the Committee inquiry 
may touch on sensitive areas, such as the ~dentities of CIA 
personnel, sources, or cooperating organizations whose 
disclosure could p~ace persdns in actual jeopardy. In the 
event that the Committee inquiry touches on such sensitive 
areas, which matters we have already discussed in our meeting 
of February 27, we should discuss jointly, and as you suggested 
quickly, what procedures might be followed should the Committee 
decide it requires more information in these specific areas." 
The 6/30/75 SSC letter requests among other things, 
a list of all police departments and personnel contacted 
relative to a particular COINTELPRO operation; a list of all 
media persons contacted in relation to this COINTE:J:,PRO and 
the media affiliation. 
The 7/1/75 SSC letter requests a list of all persons 
outside the FBI (including, but not limited to, employees' 
relatives, friendly media personnel, members of clergy, 
federal, state and local law enforcement and other officials) 
contacted in relation to four persons who were subjects of 
CONTINUED - OVER 
- 2 -
'NW 38296 Docld:32989ti-24 Page 238 
