t 
) 
) 
) 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
PART II 
-
6A - B 
PUBLICATION~, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
9. In cases involving bombings having a•n apparent racial or religious basis 
with the resultant public interest, the SAC should •issue a statement to 
the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to 
actively assist local investigative authorities, making available to them 
every possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the Bureau's full 
·laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by han­
dling out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all inve st_igati ve efforts 
tha·t may indicate any Federal violation. At no time should this statement 
indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction of the FBI ~or should full investigative responsibility for 
the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance of this state­
·ment requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known facts of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
[10. In contacts with the press concerning a bank ~obbery, bank burglary, or 
bank larceny no information should be volunteered concernin-g the 
amount of loot obtained. Specific questions by members of the press 
concerning amount of loot may be answered only following the arrest of 
an individual or individuals for violation of the Federal bank robbery 
statute.] 
i11.] Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press 
release file if exists. 
[12.] In connection with service awards to Bureau personnel, SACs may provide 
news media with a photograph and a brief biographical sketch of employee. 
No employee may submit to a personal interview by a newsman in connection 
with such an award or under any other circumstances, for that matter, 
without prior Bureau authority. This does not preclude an SAC or other 
Bureau official from issuing news releases in accordance with existing 
Bureau policy. 
B. FBI LAW ENFORCEMENT BULLETIN 
This publication is issued the first of each month by the ·Burea:u for the 
benefit of law enforcement agencies. 
1. Contents 
a. Foreword by the Director 
b. Interesting case write-ups 
c. Articles which might assist law enforcement officers 
d. 'Insert containing notice~ regarding the ten most wanted fugitives; 
fugitives wanted by the Bureau and the police, including fingerprint 
classifications and physical descriptions; a limited number of 
missing persons with their photographs 
• 2. Distribution 
Limited to law enforcement otficers and others engaged in or having a 
legi ti:inate interest in law enforcement work 
3. Filing and indexing 
a. In a 66 classification file, bound on the side, and fully indexed. 
Informative matter to be indexed under subject matter. For uni­
formity, the Bureau is to forward by routing slip to all divi­
sions each month an indexing list of the basic and pertinent 
items to be indexed. Index cards are to be prepared by each 
office. Any additional i terns ·not lis:t~d but considered to be 
worthy of indexing by a particular office should also be indexed. 
The indexing lists are to be destroyed after the field office 
inspection by SOG. 
b. This file may be destroyed when it is over five years old. Retain 
index cards. 
c. Current copy should be placed in bookcase, available to all Agents. 
lb 
6-26-70 
NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 11!6 
