13-00000 ( 
• 1. I 
.-
,,,.­
I SECHECY AGREEMENT 
"1. I. _________________ (print full name), hereby agree to accept as a prior condition of my, 
being employed by, or otherwise retained to perform services for, the Central. Intelligence Agenl'Y, or for staff elements of 
the Office of the Director of Central Intelligence (hereinafter collectively referred fo as the "Central Intelligence Agency"), 
the obligations ~ontained in this agreement. 
2. I understand that in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agenc}' I may be 
given access to information which is classified in accordance with the standards set forth in Executive Order 12065 as 
amended or superseded, or other applicable Executive Order, and other informationw,hich,Jf qisclosed in an unauthorized 
manner. would jeopardize foreign intelligence activities of the United' States Government. I acceptthat by being granted 
access to such information I will be placed in a position of special confidence and trust and become obligated to protect the 
information from unauthorized· disclosure. 
:J. In consideration for being employed or otherwise retained to provide services to the C..entral Intelligence Agencr, I 
hereby agree that I will never disclose in any form or any manner any of the. following categories of information or 
materials. to any person not authorized by the Central Intelligence Agency to receive them: 
a. information which is classified pursuant to Executive Order and which I have obtained during the course of my 
employment or other ser\'ice with the Central Intelligence Agency; 
b. information, or materials which reveal information, dassifiable pursuant to Executive Order and obtained br me 
in the course of my employment or other sen·ice with the Central Intellige11ce Agen6· but· which. because of 
operational circumstance or oversight. is not formally marked as classified in accordance with such Executi\'e Order 
and which I know or have reason to kno,v has not been. publicly acknowledged by the Agency; 
c. information obtained by me_ in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence 
Agency that identifies anr person or organization that presently has or formerly has had a relationship with a l'nited 
States foreign intelligence organization, which relationship the United States Government has taken affirmatin­
measures to conceaL,. 
-t I understand that;the burden will be upon· me to lea:rri whether information or material!i within my control are 
~ • . considered by the C..entral~lntelligence Agericy t<ditthe descriptions ·se·T· forth in paragraph 3; -~i\tf\~~om the Agencr has 
authorized to receive it. .-• • •• 
5. As a further condition of the special confidence and trust reposed in me by the Central Intelligence AgenC}', I 
hereby agree to submit for revie,v by the Central Intelligence Agency all information or materials including ,,..·orks of fiction 
which contain any mention .of intelligence data or activities, or contain data which may be based upon information 
classified pursuant to Executive Order, which I contemplate disclosing publicly or which I have actually prepared for public 
disclosure, either during my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agencr or at any time thereafter, 
prior to discussing.it withior shO\vii:ig it to anyone who is not authorized to have access to it. I further agree that I will not 
take any steps to"'.ard public disclosure until I have received written permission to do so from the Central Intelligence 
Agency. ·".··; ··: 
. . ''.,-:;j. : .. .·, • 
6. I understand th~Oli~ ~urpose of the review described in paragraph 5 is to give the Central Intelligence Agenq an 
opportunity to det~rnn~Jb~ther the information or materials which I contemplate disclosing publicly contain any 
information which I have1..agrec:;d)1ot to disclose. I further understand that the Agency will act upon the materials I submit 
and make a response..to ro;,-\~tffinra:·lfeasonable time.. · • • • . _,,_.,, .. · • -· 
7. I understand tlr~-AIL~.Jirhkito\i or ~aterials ,,;hich I may:a~tluire in the ~(ifse of'my employment or other service 
with the Central Intelligence Agency which fit the descriptions set out in paragraph '3 of this agreement are and will remain 
the property of the United States Government. I agree to surrender all materials 0ieflecting such information which may 
have come into my possession or for which I am responsible because of my employment or other service with the Central 
Intelligence Agency, upon demand by an appropriate official of-the Central Intelligence Agency, or upon the conclusion of 
my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency. 
8. I agree to notify the Central Intelligence Agency immediately in the event that I am c:alled upon by judicial or 
congressional authorities to testify about, or provide, information which I have agreed herein not to disclose. 
9. I unde~stand that nothing contained in this agreement prohibits me from reporting intelligence activities which I 
c:oi1sider to be unlawful or improper directly to the Intelligence Oversight Board established hr the President or to any 
successor body which the'"Presiae.nt may establish. I recognize that there are also established procedures for bringing such 
matters to the attention of the Ag;;;-cy'r°-fnspector General or to the Director ~f Central Intelligence. I f urtlier understand 
• that any information which I may report to the Intelligence Oversight Board c:ontinues to be subject to this agreement for all 
other purposes and that such repor~ing does not constitute public disclosure or declassification of that information. 
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS 
EDITIONS 
