some "hi h rollers" in would be 
more tal;)le - it was Rosselli 
-who patched things up. 
Hughes eventually bought the 
• Desert Inn, as well as the Frontier. 
What Rosselli ·told· the federal 
grand jury about the Frontier_ in 
1971 is unknown. Rosselli didn't 
testify later at the trial at" which -
Anthony J. Zerilli_ and Michael Pol­
izzi and the. Emprise. Corp., among; 
others, were convicted. • 
ZERILLI and Polizzi are· still in 
jail. In 197'.3, the .House of Repre­
sentatives - Select Committee on 
Crime probed the influence of or­
ganized crime· in sports - and one 
area they looked at was Emprise 
and the Frontier Hotel case. • 
At the time of the conviction, the 
federal prosecutor asked that Poliz­
zi and Teri Iii be jailed Jmmediately; 
-. because monitored, wiretapped 
conversations showed that the two 
had talked about "murder, the kill­
ing of certain.individuals." ·-· • 
. An intimate associate of Rosselli, 
however, discounts the possibility 
that· Rosselli's grand jury appear­
ance could have led. to his death. 
"They know Johnny didn't talk to 
the grand jury," the assoc_iate said. 
JOE BREEN said ·Rosselli hadn't/ 
been to Las Vegas for nine years, 
that "he's never even seen the gift 
shop." - • 
•• Since his prison • re.lease andl • move to Plantation, Ross_elli wasn't 
trying to regain power; according 
to his friends. "He had no muscle.'' 
said an associate. "I .can't believe 
Rosselli was getting back into• mob 
stuff." - ' • · • • 
But at the same time, ·many of 
the associates were surpised to 
learn about Rosselli's recent visits 
with alleged organized crime fig­
ures on the West Coast. 
Several associates speculate that 
, Rosselli wanted to get involved in 
; ·casino gambling, preferably in the 
Middle, East" and was looking for 
someone with money~tc> _back him .. . ~ =~-•> • "MY IMP that he 
was. broke," said. "He told 
me last.year, 'I'm-in: bad.,.financial, .-straits/".,;: • • i_' 
Scheer said Rosselli's income in­
cluded about $60,000 from the gift 
shop and about $3,500 in social se• 
curity, most or which' went for 
back fees to attorneys and for gov-
_!!_rnment fines. _ 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 682 
- 4 -
• One friend said. that: just·-before· 
Giaacana's death, Rosselli had ac-· 
cepted Giancana's offer of monev. 
The friend was to act as ,the inter­
mediary. "Let me figure out what 
my next (attorney's) tab. wiH-be," 
the friend. quoted Rossem as say-. ing. • • ,,,,:, • · 
Rosselli is described. as a man 
with a sense of humor who did lit­
tle offending. 
A California woman - who had 
known Rosselli.'for about 40 years 
. told 'The Herald, "If you were, 
around him for 30 minutes you'd 
like him because he would regard 
you as a human being." 
"If you had a headache he would 
. either get you an aspirin or send 
someone to get one. I said· some- -
, thing significant there - he would 
get it or he would send someone -
he wasn't a pansy, but he wasn't a 
tough guy either.". ' 
