107G 
( 6) 
. (7) 
After informard; authenticates h:is statement, contac·bing Agen-'~ 
should prep~,re a cover sheet, form :r''D-306, which should be stapled 
to j_·;: an•l tr..ereafter the statement sho1.1.ld be hfl.ndled as a 
written one in accordance with instructions set out in 2~ a~ 
( 10) , a.nd ( 11) . 
Oral information furnished by informant purely of lead value 
should be incorporated in an office memorandum by the Agent 
and should not be ini tiaJ_ed by the info:r-mant or exh:i b::. ted to 
him or treated as evldence, 
3, Transmission of iciormation 
a, Statements shoi,ld be personally delivered to contacting Agent by 
informants whenever possible. Careful considcratiou should be 
given tu full &ecurity of all such personal contacts. 
t, ~~ay shoulJ never be mailed to field office or resident agency, 
c .. If ~hey cannot be obtained personally by contacting Agent, obtain 
confide~tial post office boxes for their receipt. 
d, Confidential post office boxes should be obtained under fic~itious 
names and. :r,_ot under names of persons who may be listed in pos·i; office 
directory. 
e. More than one informant may send statements to a specific post office 
box$ but consideration should be given to obtaining post office boxes 
in different post office stations to prevent suspicion on part of 
post office emplo.yees. 
f. Envelope enclosing statement should have retu,rn address of another 
confidential post office box obtained under a fictitious name in the 
s arnFJ· man1.1er as d. 
g. St~d;ements should be collected .at post office boxes regularly 9 
but time of pickup should be varied. Work out system of rotation 
whereby same .Agent or Agents will not appear at same post office·box 
for any extend.id period of time. 
h, When informant receives information of vital and immediate interest 
to :Bureau, he should furnish it as promptly as possible "j;o contacting 
Agent or office by most appropriate means of communication. Office 
should take any necessary action without delay. 
4. Handling of lead information 
a. All lead information obtained from informant must be run out to 
a logical conclusion. 
b, If there is only partial name of individual or meager descripti\· 
data. 9 and if there is sufficient data available to do so, file s 
be opened and assig~ed to effect an identification and to take a: 
necessary action. 
• c, If there is insufficient information to warrant opening case, 
a tickler card shoµlfr be prepared to follow with the informant and 
take other logical steps in an effort to obtain additional identifying 
data concerning the individual. Tickler cards should be restricted 
to information wh:tch would warrant investigation if an identity is 
established, This will eliminate inconsequential items, but at the 
same time definite steps must be taken to run out affirmative -informa­
tion. If no identification is made after reasonable eff6rt, prepare 
memorandum for informantrs subfile. If an identification is made, 
a file should be opened and any necessary action taken in connection 
therewith. 
5. Handling documentary material furnished by informants 
a. Pamphlets and similar documentary material furnished b.y informants 
[ should have placed thereon the informant's code name. 
b. Informant should affix date he received the material, If informant 
cannot recall date of receipt, the date he furnished material should 
be affixed. 
c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, dat~ ~eceived, 
permanent symbol number of informant, file numbers, indexing symbols, 
etc., should be placed on documentary material by Agents or clerical 
personnel. 
NW 38311 Docld:32989529 Page 1554 
12 
6-13-61 
