13-00000 
• 
. '••' 
;: ·"-~°!".~, 
of the Secret Service because under law they are charged with the protection 
of the President. We have never done that before, but I felt that it was some­
thing we must do if the Secret Service desired it. Sometimes, such as at tbe 
funeral of the late President Kennedy, the procession walked up Connecticut 
Avenue, which created a very, very grave security problem because they were 
walking with these tall building on _either side. As I recall, we had the respon­
sibility for the Cathedral, and we had 43 agents in the Cathedral during the 
services. I was more concerned about these tall buUdings, because all the 
small buildings have been torn down along Connecticut Avenue, and there were 
about six or seven blocks to walk. Not on.ly the high officials of this Government, 
including the President, but the Queen of Greece. General de Gaulle, Emperor 
Hane Selassie, and man:, Prime Ministers were present. They were a perfect 
target for someone in so.me window. 
Now, you can't empty these buildings. It is impossible to do that, because 
you can't- go to the Mayflower Hotel and say all front rooms must be vacated. 
Other office buildings are there, even taller than the Mayflower, and you can't 
make them keep everybody out of the front offices because then you get into 
a police state. 
The Secret Service does try to check to find out who have these various offices. 
We also check so if there is anything in our files on those individuals the Secret 
Service is at once advised. When the President goes to a banquet or a social 
occasion, all of the employees in the hotel, . th" cooks, waiters, and busboys, 
and so forth, are all checked by Secret Service to be certain there is no one 
with a background that would indicate a hazard to the President. But that 
is as far as I think you can go.· You can't put in-a whole new staff of waiters 
and you can't make people move out. People going to a Presidential function 
are generally invited· by card or by list. and that is very carefully checked at 
the entrance by the Secret Service. 
We suggested a few more things that possibly could be done, and some of 
which I have doubts about. You speak about this matter of glass around the 
galleries_ in the_ House. One of the suggestions that we made was that there 
be bulletproof glass in front of the President's lectern. In my own mind, I 
question whether that is wise. Knowirig this President as this President is, he 
wants to get close to the audience; he wants to reach over and shake hands 
with people. That ·concerns me because you never know when an emotionally 
unstable person may be in that crowd. • As you not.ed, he has frequently brou~ht 
groups into the White House gardens and walked around with people he didn't 
know. I know the Secret Service people are concerned about it. I am con­
cerned about it. 
President Truman last week expressed his concern that the President was 
taking unnecessary chances. 
But the governmental agency having the responsibility for guarding him, the 
Secret Service, has a natural hesitancy to say, "You can't do this." 
Representative Booos .. Of course, for the record, President Kennedy had the 
same difficulty. • • 
Mr. HOOVER, That is right. It was best expressed at Parkland Hospital. 
One of President Kennedy's staff made the statement that the whole fault in 
this· matter was that, to the choice Mtween politics and security, politics was. 
chosen. That is exactly what happened. It was an open car. I am thoroughly 
opposed to the President riding in an open car. 
They did not have any armored car· in the Secret Service at that time. 
I have now sent one of ,:mr • armo~ed cars over for the President, but it is -a 
closed limousine. But on occasion, suc,h as at Gettysburg and Atlanta the other 
day, the President got out of the armored car which had been flown there for 
his -use, and commandeered the car of the Secret Service which is wide open, 
so he could wave and see the people. Now, that is a great hazard. I .think 
he should always be in an armored car that is closed, that can't have the 
top put down. But as you recall, President Kennedy had the bubble top off 
of the car that he was in. It was not armored and the bubble top was made 
of plastic so a bullet could have gone through it very easily. :-, 
Representative Foao. Mr. Hoover, you have categorically testified that the f 
107 
