0 
0 
SUPPLEMENT 
THE SITUATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA, PANA.~li\., AND MEXICO 
Central America is relatively stable. Preparations are 
under way for President Kennedy's scheduled meeting with the Chiefs 
of State of these countries at San Jose, Costa Rica, on 18 and 19 
March. Tensions are rising, however, in those countries having 
,elections scheduled this year; Mexico's political stability is 
threatened;, and the Cuban subversive potential remains a problem 
throughout the area. 
During the forthcoming ~eeting, an attempt will be made to 
center discussions on areas of common interest. Economic integra­
tion of the Central American region -- one of the major objectives 
of the Alliance for Progress Program -- will undoubtedly be em-
phasized. Central America, which has been moving toward greater 
political unity, has begun to take st~ps toward economic integra­
tion, and presently envisages th~ creation of a Common Maiket by 
1965. The Cuban subversive threat is also likely to be given top 
priority~ All of the Central American countries regard this as 
one of the major problems and are seeking ways to meet it. 
On 3 February, Nicaraguans are scheduled to cast ballots for 
the first time in nearly 30 years for a Presidential candidate 
who is not a member of the Somoza family. Rene Schick -- the 
government's Liberal Party (PLN) candidate and hand-picked by the 
Somozas -- is expected to win easilY, however. Effective oppo­
sition to Schick collapsed when the major opposition party -­
Traditionalist Conservative (PCT)-- boycotted the elections 
because the government refused to permit OAS supervision. The 
only opponent is Diego Manuel Chamo'rro Bolanos, a last-minute 
candidate of the splinter Nicaraguan Conservative Party (PCN), 
whose entry into the race seems to have been engineered by the 
government to provide a semblance of opposition. Castro­
C~~munist~elements, militant conservatives and others may.attempt 
to create disorders before or during the elections, but the 
Nicaraguan National Guard is believed capable of,controlling 
any troubles short of.a general uprising or wcl I-coordinated 
rebel invasion -- neither of which seems likely. 
Anti-Somoza Nicaraguans have alleged fraudulent registra­
tions and may attempt to challenge the elections. Although 
Schick may not turn out to be a Somoza puppet, opposition 
suspicions will be reinforced with the likely retention of 
General Anastasio Somoza as Director of the National Guard. 
Repercussions in Guatemala from the rec~nt abortive Air 
Force revolt have not been too serious. Although plotting 
28 Jan 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page (1) 
(REVERSE BLANK) 
S~C~tu~No ,fOR!E~GN D~SS[EM 
NW 50955 Docld:32423736 Page 94 
j 
