13-00000 
Board found that "agency heads" tended to 
be quite reluctant to release their agendes' 
secrets. The Executive Order, while well­
intentioned, failed to provide for any inde­
pendent review of "agency heads'" decisions 
on declassification. Thus, although the Exec­
utive Order's standards for declassification 
appeared to be disclosure-oriented, the Exec­
utive Order failed to hold agency heads 
accountable for their decisiorunaking. 
The JFK Act did require agencies to account 
for their decisions. To ensure such account­
ability, Congress included four essential pro­
visions in the JFK Act: first,. the JFK Act pre­
sumed that assassination records may be 
released;· second, the JFK Act stated that an 
agency could rebut the presumption of dis­
closure only by proving, with clear and con­
vincing evidence, that disclosure would result 
in harm and that the expected harm would 
outweigh any public benefit in the disclo­
sure; third, the JFK Act created an independent 
agency-the Review Board-whose mandate 
was to ensure that agencies respected the 
presumption of disclosure and honestly pre­
sented clear and convincing evidence of the 
need to protect information; and fourth, the 
JFK Act required agencies to provide the 
Review Board with access to government 
records, even when those records would not 
become part of the JFK Collection. Without 
these accountability provisions, the JFK Act 
would not have accomplished its objective of 
maximum release of assassination records to 
the public. So, while the FOIA and the Exec­
utive Order each expressed the goal of 
obtaining maximum disclosure, the JFK Act 
ensured that the goal would be met. The two 
accountability provisions that relate directly 
to the Section 6 grounds for postponement­
the presumption of release and the standard 
of proof-are discussed in detail below. The 
third provision discussed below is the 
Review Board's obligation to balance the 
weight of the evidence in favor of postpone­
ment against the public interest in release. 
a. JFK Act presumes disclosure of 
assassination records. 
The most pertinent language of the JFK Act 
was the standard for release of information. 
According to the statute, "all Government 
records concerning the assassination of Pres­
ident John F. Kennedy should carry a pre-
43 
sumption of immediate disclosure. "14 The statute 
further declared that "only in the rarest cases is 
there any legitimate need for continued protection 
of such records. "15 
b. JFK Act requires agencies to provide clear 
and convincing evidence. 
If agencies wished to withhold information 
in a document, the JFK Act required the 
agency to submit clear and convincing evi­
dence that the informa-
tion fell within one of the 
narrow postponement 
criteria. 16 
Congress selected the 
clear and conyincing evi­
dence standard because 
"less exacting standards, 
such as substantial evi­
dence or a preponder­
ance of the evidence, 
were not consistent with 
the legislation's stated goal" of prompt and 
full release. 17 The legislative history of the 
JFK Act emphasized ·the statutory require­
ment that agencies provide clear and con­
vincing evidence. 
There is no justification for perpetual 
secrecy for any class of records. Nor can 
the withholding of any individual 
record be justified on the basis of gen­
eral confidentiality concerns applicable 
to an entire class. Every record must be 
judged on its own merits, and every 
record will ultimately be made available -
for public disclosure. 18 
When agencies did present to the Review 
Board evidence of harm that would result 
from disclosure, it had to consist of more 
than speculation. 
The [Review] Board cannot postpone 
release because it might cause some con­
ceivable or speculative harm to national 
security. Rather in a democracy the 
demonstrable harm from disclosure must 
be weighed against the benefits of 
release of the information to the public. 19 
The Review Board's application of the clear 
and convincing evidence standard is covered 
in more detail in Section B of this chapter. 
