[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
2. 
[ 
:p.A.RT II 
SECTIOM 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Identification orders.., wanted flyers, check ~irculars, and:apprehens.ion 
orders 
Each field office must ma·intain a mailing list composed of individuals 
and organizations to which identification orders, wanted flyers, check 
circulars, and apprehensfon orders are to be sent; Each field office must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see that no·data is sen-t to 
f'irms ·which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations. 
[A survey should be conducted by Agents each year by every of~ioe, at the 
time the f'ield office"mailing list is purged, to determine whether addi­
tional names of individuals and businesses should be added to the fie·ld 
office mailing list,] 
a. Addressograph plates a~e to be prepared at the- Bureau u~on receipt of 
field request, ·(The Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather thari name of in9umbent. 
b. Decide what organizations, individuals, or concer:i~ are to appear on 
the list. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
(1) The quality of the assistance the addressee is in a position to 
~ ~ 
give .. _ _ _ . 
2
3
• The cooperation which has bee~ afforded 
The following must appear' on.the list: 
Alcohoi and Tobacco Tax Division 
Bureau of Customs 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce-
ment Officers 
'FBINA Graduates 
Hotels 
Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion Service 
( 4) The following ma·y appear on the list: 
Missions· Providing Lodging 
Post Office Inspectora 
Postmasters 
Sa.lva·tion Army 
·Secret Service 
U. S. Marshals 
Automobile Cluqs Navy.Shore Patrol 
Banks • Oil:Company Special Agents 
County Attorneys Parole and Probation Officers 
County Corone~s Plant Quarantine Officers 
Credit Companies ·protective Associations 
Detective Agencies Race Tracks 
Enlistment Officers, Savings and Loan Associations 
U. S. Army, Navy, Marine Corps 'Service Recruiting Offic~rs 
Employment. Seryice • [ State Employment "Offices] 
Fire Departments .. .. . ·state Hospttals for· Insane 
Forest Service • • Steamship Companies 
Gunsmiths. , Telegraph Companies 
Insurance Cbmpanies. :· •• u. s .• Attorneys 
Movie Studios U, S, Commissioners 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to,be 
furnishe9- '.!lewspapers and periodicals. only upon their specific reques-t, 
Should a compeliing reason exist for distribution of an identification 
order, a wanted'flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secur.e Bureau approval for 
such distribution. 
Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels. 
Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin. 
has responsibility for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
~ NW 38321 Docld:32989529 360 
4. 
7-27-60 
( 
( 
I 
' \_ 
