6L 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
t [ 
NW 38321 
4. 
5. 
6. 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not uro­
posing individuals w~10 because of business connections or personal 
activities or close association with other persons will be involved in 
unfavorable publicity or become the subject of adverse in,restigati ve 
activity, or who will capitalize on their friendly. association with 
the S.AC. 
Except where a suitable file is already in existence, a dea~ file in. 
classification 80 is to be opened on each contact. 
A.three- by five-inch card on each contact is to be retained in an SAC 
contact box in the exclusive possession of the SAC. Each card is to 
contain: 
a. Name of the contact 
b. Office and home addresses and telephone numbers 
c. Nature of service which can be ·received 
d. Any comments which would be helpful in handling the individual 
e. Date of first contact and name of SAC first developing the contact 
( Show in the lower left corner on the front of the card.) 
f. Dates of contacts by the SAC {to be entered o~ the reverse side of 
the card in longhand). Contacts more frequent than quarterly should 
not be listed. 
g . .Any necessary descriptive data 
Each contact is to be indexed in the general indices. The card is to 
show the name of the individual, date of preparation, and the notatio~, 
"See SAC." 
7o [The frequency ·of personal contact with SAC contacts is left to the 
8. 
9. 
lOo 
discretion of the SAC; contacts should be evaluated periodically to 
determine their effectiveness and the desirability of their continuanceo] 
Advise Bureau immediately when a contact is discontinued UACB. If the 
contact is transferred or moves to another city located within another 
field division, a copy of the communication advising of the discontinuance 
should be designated for that field division. Also advise field division 
of background information re contact. • 
Advise Bureau promptly of changes of addresses or status of SAC contacts. 
[Each office must submit a complete alphabetical roster of SAC contacts 
to reach the Bureau by the first week of November each yearo If there 
are any changes in address, employment, or other pertinent data, such 
information should be set fortho If there is no change in.status, so 
stateo] 
11. • From time to time, the Bureau sends these contacts reprin:ts of speeches 
-and ·other material to assist in making them more 11FBI minded'' and 
aware of some of the problems confronting us. Any indication tha~ such 
material is not welcomed by any SAC contact should be made known to the 
Bureau without delay. 
12. Immediately upon assuming the duties of SAC, s-µch SAC should visit all 
persons listed as SAC contacts and in addition leading officials located 
in the field division. 
Page 22:8 
8 
6-27-73 
( 
