1~0000 
SECRET 
~- -------~~~-
( ( .. l. (S) The BOARD wanted to-~h Securi; ;;i~(BSS) interview of the 
(
' spouse of a West-East defector (Sloboda). The BSS advised the Station that release would be a violation of 
privacy rights in the UK. The BOARD agreed that the document was "not intrinsic to assassination story" 
and that the document could be postponed until 2017. 
2. (S) Another British document in the collection provided information that as of 1982 
"KOSTIKOV ... was posted in Beirut in 1978 ... and may still be there." (The author EPSTEIN in 
Legend claims KOSTIKOV was Lee Harvey Oswald's KGB case officer in Mexico City.) The British desk 
accepted the release of the one pertinent paragraph (one of five paragraphs in the document), and the Board 
agreed to postpone until 2017 the release of all other text and source originating information. 
3. (S) The BOARD learned of the existence of a -British document that the CIA possessed from the 
BOARD's examination of FBI files. One member of the BOARD reviewed the entire document and 
declared one portion of the document as relevant to the JFK assassination. The four-page section of the 
document regarding KGB Active Measures was released in full and further noted that it was from a foreign 
government that specifically requested not to be identified. 
Canadian 
(S) A report received through Canadian liaison channels on West-East defectors (Martin and 
Mitchell) is in the collection. As consultations with the Canadian desk were underway, the BOARD 
determined the document as not believed relevant and postponed its release until 2017. 
Dutch 
(S) The BOARD wanted to release two attachments (teltap transcripts) to a dispatch from the 
Dutch Station. The matter was coordinated with the Dutch desk, the Dutch Station, and the Director 
General of the Dutch National Security Service. As a result, translation substitutions provide the 
information from intercepted conversations on the topics of"Mr. Lee (sic)" and Richard Gibson, but 
redactions obscure the source of the transcripts, according to guidelines in a letter from the service. Release 
of the redacted portions is postponed until 2017. 
2 
~ 
~ 
LIA 2-82 
XS 
1.5d 
