13-00000 
-4-
without requiring the Bureau to make a showing that the informant is allve. This 
protection would extend to Individuals characterized as symbol-number informants, 
"PSls," "PCls,• 
11
established sources,• apanel sources,n ar:td the like - designations that 
Indicate an ongoing relationship with the FBI. It would not extend to Individuals who 
requested that their identity be protected In an isolated contact with the FBI. or to local 
and ·state law enforcement officers. • 
Tbe."informant-identlfylng.informatjon" to be protected would Include the customary 
(/~e., informant-specific) portions of informant symbol.numbers and file numbers~ 
Informant names, and - at least potentially - descriptions of, and information received 
from, the informan~. How much, if any, of the latter type of Information should be 
redacted would be the principal focus of staff-level discussions with the .FBI. The staffs 
· principal goal _in this process, with regard to each lnforr,nant, would be to release as 
much Information that is relevant to understanding the assassination as possible. In 
discussions with the FBI, the staff wo1,1ld be prepared,.if necessary, to concede 
redaction of informant;.ldentifying information _that Is unrelated to the assassination in 
order to ensure that more pertinent information is released~5 
The presumption will be that an informant's identity will be released if the informant 
provides "positive" information about an assassination-related Issue. To overcome this 
pr~sumption of release for Informants with "posltiven information, the FBI would need to 
make a particularized sh_owing that the identifying Information should not be released. 
• To the extent that an informant's identity is protected, it will be postponed until 2017. 
CIA Employee Naine Postponements 
Over the past year the CIA has addressed the employee name Issue and has released 
some munes that It had previously asked the Board to postpone. But during that time 
. the list of names has grown to a size that had not been Imagined· at the tlrrie the work 
began. To date, the Review Board staff has identified in the JFK Collection over 650 
names of CIA employees. These names appear in more than 1000 documents already 
reviewed by the Board and numerous additional· records that have not yet been 
processed. While some of these employee. names. are. important to the assassination 
story, many appear only a few times in the entire JFK Collection and seem to add little, 
If any, important Information. 
51n HSCA subjects, there typically wiH not be infonnation about Ruby, Oswald or 
the assassination Itself. However, in a file Qn~ for example~ Sam Gia11cana, there. may 
be Informant reports on Giancana's support of anti-Castro activities, and. reports from 
th~ same lnform~nt on day-to-day numbers operations In the Chicago area. The staff 
would set a higher priority.on release of the former reports than on the latter.: 
.. 
