: ' 
\ 
- 2 -
In this position I am responsible for performing the duties of the 
Administrative Secretary in her absence. I also perform duties ·assigned_ 
by the Administrative Secretary designed to expedite her work. I type 
reports (legal and technical in nature) with responsibility for ac­
curacy and consistency and for adherence to established editorial form; 
I receive inquiry slips requesting research information and forward 
to appropriate section head for assignment; I receive and direct phone 
calls to appropriate persons, and receive and route incoming mail. 
As assistant supervisor for 9 editorial assistants, I am also respon-. 
sible for orientating new clerical staff members~ I operate as 
alternate Time and Attendance clerk. Supervisor: Mrs. Linda Bailey 
Library of Congress - Congressional Research Service 
Government Division Editorial Assistant 4/74 - 8/3/75 
I was responsible for editorial review of material (research 
studies, articles, speeches, committee reports); determining proper 
format and typing rough drafts into final form. I made revisions 
and cortec t i6rts (minor) •• in format and grammer of researched material. 
I operated the Lexitron Videotype machine; IBM/ATS; Xerox 4500 
machines and performed related clerical duties as necessary. 
Supervisor: Mrs. Linda Bailey \ 
Library of Congress - Loan Division - Charge Records 
Section - Library Technician January 1974 - April 1974 · 
In this position I charged books internally to Library staff and 
to Congressional Offices; filed charge slips; and discharged returned 
books (internal and Congressional). Temporary position. 
Supervisor: Mrs. A. Kolarick 
Virginia Union University - Financial Aid Office 
Clerk Typist (Work Study Position) 
I assisted the Director of Financial Aid and his Secretary in 
the proc~ssing of financial aid papers for students. This involved 
typing and filing and related clerical duties. I held this postion 
from January 1973 - May 1973 and August 1973 to December 1973. 
Supervisor: Mr. Philip Brunson • 
Page 
