87A 
d. 
✓"'\ 
s~cirm~7. -
:• ~ 
::e 
INVESTIGATIONS OP SUBVERSIVE 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDUALS 
the United States or any department or agency thereof, for the 
five years next following his conviction. 
"If two or more persons conspire to commit any offense named in this 
section, each shall be fined not more than $20,000 or ir.1prisoned 
not.more than twenty years, or both, and shall be ineligible for 
employment by the United States or any department or agency thereof, 
for the five years next following his conviction. 
"As used in this section, the terms 'organizes' and 'organize', with 
respect to any society, group, or assembly of persons, include the 
·recruiting of new members, the forming of new units, and the regroup­
ing or e~rpansion of existing clubs, classes, and other units of 
such society, group, or assembly of persons." 
The courts have interpreted this statute to require advocacy to 
action, i.e., advocacy to do something, now or in the future, rather 
than merely to believe in something. 
In addition to the three principal statutes outlined above, there 
are two other statutes which might provide a statutory foundation for 
an •investigation under this section. These are: 
The Internal Security Act of 1950[(T 50, USC~§§ 781-798)]and the 
Communist Control Act of 1954 (T 50, use, §§L841-844).] 
In summary, these statutes make it unlawful to knowingly contribute 
to the establishment of a totalitarian dictatorship within the 
l)'nited States which is controlled by a foreign government, organi­
zation, or individual. The statutes also impose various restrictions 
on the activities of members or organizations cited by the Subversive 
Activities Control Board (SACB) as "communist action," "communist 
front,n or "communist infiltrated" groups. The restrictions apply 
principally to employment by the Federal government or by a defense 
faci.J,.ity. 
The former SACB cited only one organization, the Communist Party, 
USA, which was named as a "communist action" group. 
2. Prosecutive determination 
All discussions pertaining to the prosecutive potential of investigations 
initiated under this section will be conducted by FBIHQ with Departmental 
officials. These cases should not be discussed with local u. s. Attorney's 
office without FBIHQ approval. 
·3. Related statutes 
There are a number ·of other statutes under the FBI's investigative 
jurisdiction which should be borne in mind in handling these investigations. 
Information concerning possible violations of such statutes is frequently 
developed during these investigations. Where this occurs the field should 
consider the desirability of conducting investigation in line \·/i th the 
policies and procedures governing the statute in question. 
A list of other Federal statutes which may arise during these investigations 
is outlined in an appendix to this manual. 
4. Definitions 
The term ''subversive activities" as used in this section denotes 
activities which are aimed at overthrowing, destroying or undermining the 
Government of the United States or any of its political subdivisions by 
the illegal means prohibited by statutes enumerated in A. 1. above. The 
term "subversive organization" or "subversive movement" denotes a group 
or movement which is known to engage in or advocate subversive activities, 
as defined above. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Pag~ 1M5 4 
) 
) 
