14-00000 
. . 
• • • Io -,.•t-.1 o -'-' • • - _,._, 
1- ' t 
' . 
... . 
s ··E C R E T 
on this list are opened. 
quarterly. It is mad·e up 
pally to Cl, SR Division, 
and includes names listed 
This watch list is revised 
of names of interest princi­
and the Security Office, 
by the FBI. 
"f. There are trained linguist-analysts in the 
Branch who extract infoTmation of interest from the 
intercepts, and the disseminability of ·this information 
is determined by the Chief of "Projects. Branch. At , 
present the rate 0£ dissemination from Projects Branch 
runs at an average of about 150 per month and the 
number is- increasing. Sixty percent of these·dissemina-. 
tions are positive intelligence. The disseminations :, •.• 
are controlled by the Deputy Chief of CI Staff. 
"g. SR Di:vision'has obtained valuable operational 
leads from this Project, and the FBI wants as much· 
information as it can get by this means .. 
"h. There are· 40 individuals in CIA who are 
offici-ally cleared to know about this Project. These 
include members of SR Division, Office of Security, 
CI Staff, and RI Machine Reco;rds, COPS, DD/P, DD/S, 
Director of Personnel (due to his previous service in the 
DD/P)·· and the Chief, FI Staff. The DCI, DDCI and the IG 
Sta££ also have access._to the Project. 
"""i. It would appear 'from present results that much 
more.value could be obtained from·this Project if more­
intercepts·were opened. Project Branch is at present~ 
handling four times as much volume as it did in the past 
with the same number of personnel and at the same cos_t. 
'Its staff at Headquarters is capable of handling 2,000 
per month with the present T/0, but the New York staff 
could not supply that number ·of opened intercepts unless 
its personnel was increased. It is felt by the Branch 
that a rate of 4,000/intercepts per month would be a 
good future goal. It is estimated that this would 
require an incTease of one interceptor, 9ne secTetary 
and one letter opener in New York and an addition to 
Project Branch at Headquarters of four linguist~analysts, 
fonr clerical pers9nnel and one reports o££icer. 
"j. The Office of Security, which works with 
Project Branch, is agreeable to the·gradual expansion of 
the opeTation. It would be in favor of ~xpanding at 
present to the extent of opening more intercepts, and 
taking samples 0£ these intercepts for S. W. This could 
be done by the aforementioned increase 0£ Security Office 
personnel in New York.without an immediate increase in the 
Headquarters staf~. It would be operationally much more 
.feasible i£ a secure room could be obtained in the Post 
Office -in New York for their sole use .. ·since the DCI 
made the original arrangement for this opeTation with the 
Chief Postal Inspector, any changes in the system of 
opeTation should be made in the same way, This is the 
only level at which such arrangements could be accom­
plished securely." 
S E C R E T 
s1 ✓• 
