6H 
3. 
4. 
SECTIO:t-T 6. 
- PART II I 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CO TACTS 
h. If a.n item to be submitted a.ppea.rs on more than one pa.ge of° the news­
paper, the words "Continued on page ... , n the subheadline on the con­
tinued pa.ge, a.nd the words ncontinued from pa.ge ..• n should not be 
mounted. 
i. Mounted clippings should read from top to bottom, column by column, 
from left to right. 
j. All clippings must be complete. 
k. Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted except that two copies 
of all items pertaining to actual or possible civil rights violations 
should be forwarded. • 
1. 'Include clippings with other mail being sent to Bureau on the day 
that the clippings appear in the local pa.per. Forward clippings from 
resident agencies the day they arrive at headquarters city. 
Resident Agents must be alert f'or material appearing in the local press. 
Submission of publications of security interest to the Bureau 
a. General principle g9verning submissions 
The Bureau desires to receive publications of security interest at the 
SOG for purposes of·infqrmation, research, a.nd intelligence. Conse­
q·uently:, it is requested that evidentiary copies of publica.ti.ons be 
retained in the field and only nonevidentiary copies be forwarded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. 
b. Manner of handling and forwarding nonevidentiary copies of publica­
tions 
(1) N9nevidentia.ry copies of newspapers, magazines, journals, 
periodicals, news bulletins, and books, obtained regularly 
(by subscription or repeated purchase) a.nd forwarded to the 
(2) 
( 3) 
Bureau, need not be identified as to source. They should be 
submitted via ordinary mail by routing slip (marked for the 
attention of[Research Section, Domestic Intelligence Division)] 
unl~ss transmittal by cover letter has been spec~fically requested. 
Routing slips may be used to notify the Bureau of routine adminis­
t_rative matters, such as temporary· suspension of a publication 
(e.g., during summer months, lack of funds), temporary delay in. 
obtaining or receiving particular issues of a publication, or 
other information whi~h will keep the Bureau informed relative to 
the status of these publications. To avoid confusion, noneviden­
tiary copies whi~h have been marked for identification {source., 
Agent, date, and place· of acquisition)should be further annotated: 
"Not Evidence. n 
Letters should be used in.connection with initiating action or 
ceasing action to obtain publications desired by t·he Bureau; to 
call to the attention of the Bureau specific items of information 
connected with tb.ese publications; a.nd in th-ose instances in 
which good judgment dictates that certain circumstances or· 
information should be recorded in letter form. 
Each SAC and each legal attache must keep the Bureau, attention 
[Research Section, Domestic Intelligence Division,]informed on a 
current basis regarding publications (including books) of poten­
tial interest that are n_ot included in the current list of publi­
cations which is supplied periodically to the field and to the 
legal attaches. These publications would include those published 
by subjects of security or counterintelligence investigations and 
publications which may otherwise have a. security or counterin-
telligence significance. . 
Ea.ch SAC and ea.ch legal a.ttache should insure that the handling 
of publica.tio~s for which his office is responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. Subscriptions to these 
• publi'cati ons should be followed closely to insure that the 
publications are received at the Bureau on a. current basis. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication in sufficient time to enable the 
Bureau to determine the necessity for renewal. • 
- 5a 
3-27-70 
NW 38121 Docld:32989529 Page 1030 
