13-00000. 
I ' 
-- ( 
--· 
Memorandum to Mr. Tolson 
\
he would slt with the rest of the Supreme Court on t~e Horta case and would 
make certain that Kennedy was exposed. He stated that he felt that the 
Supreme Court would definitely confirm the decision of the lower court in the 
1 Holla case. He mentioned that this opinion had been expressed to him by the 
1other Justices. .· 
l { 
Justice Fortas next, in4.uired if I had known a former Bureau 
employee by the name of Courtney'Evihs. I told him that I did know Evans. 
He asked if I knew of Evans' association with Kennedy. I told him that we 
/ 
)
were well aware .of this relationship. I then briefed Justice Fortas completely 
concerning Evans. I told him of the statements made by Edward Bermett 
I 
Williams with respect to the fact that Kennedy planned to use Evans as his 
, "ace in the hole." I told Justice Fortas that Mr. Hoover had instructed me 
J to call Evans in and to show hlm approximately eight memoranda which had 
previously been prepared by Evans. Justice Fortas was advised that Evans 
I had been told that he had not only prepared but approved such memoranda and 
{ that we demanded to know if the facts as he had given them at th~ time of 
; preparation· were as true now as they were then. I told Justice Fortas that 
I Evans had affirmed the truthfulness of these facts and had sadly_ indicated, 
I 
"Facts are facts and can't be changed." I also told Justice Fortas that we 
· \had specifically asked Evans if Bobby Kennedy had been furnished information 
• !rom microphone coverage in the Black case. The Justice was advised that 
Evans had admitted that he had frequently briefed KeMedy in this regard. 
, l)The Justice was told that we next inquired of Evans whether or not Kennedy 
lmew that such informatlo~ came from ·microphone coverage and that Evans 
. had replied that there was one specific occ·asion in which Kennedy specifically 
.,•could have inferred that the information could only have come from microphone 
l coverage. . • . 
" . Justice Fortas asked if the President knew of Evans' background. 
I I told hlm tlia.t apparently the President did not know this. It was further 
mentioned that Evans was currently employed by Katzenbach,. obviously at 
the urging of Kennedy. Justice Fortas replied that tlis was-the worst news he 
had received since Bobby Kennedy's urging that the Viet Cong be allowed to 
sit down at the conference table. He stated that the President should definlte~y 
be told of this· fact. He then mentioned that several members or the Supreme 
Court are well aware of the background of Evans as well as the background of 
such characters as Sheridan, Bellino, and other henchmen of Kennedy's. 
CONTINUED ..... OVER 
- 4 -
