6H 
3. 
4. 
e 
PART II 
SECTIO:t-T 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
h. If an item to be submitted appears on more than one page of the news­
paper, . the words "Continued on page ... , 11 the subheadline on the con­
tinued page, and the words "Continued from page ... 11• should not b.e· 
mounted. 
i. Mounted clippings should read from top to bottom, column b.y_ column, 
from left to right. 
j .. All clippings must be complete. 
k.· Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted except. that two copies 
of all items pertaining to actual or possible civil rights violations 
should be forwarded. 
1. Includs ~lippings. with other mail being sent to Bureau on the day 
that the clippings appear in the local paper• Forward clippings from 
resident agencies the day they arrive at headquarters city. 
Resident Agents must be alert for material appearing in the local press. 
Submission of publications of security interest to the Bureau 
a.. General principle governing submissions 
The Bureau desires to receive publications of security interest at the 
SOG for purposes of information, research, and intelligence. Conse­
quently, it is requested that evidentiary copies of publications be 
retained in the· field and. only nonevidentiary copies. be forwarded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. 
b. Manner of handling and forwarding nonevidentiary copies of publica­
tions 
(1) Nonevidentiary copies of newspapers, magazines, journals~ 
periodicals, news bulletins, and books, obtained regularly 
[by subscription or repeated purchase) and forwarded to the 
Bureau, need not be identified as to source. They should be 
submitted via ordinary mail by routing slip {-marked for-the 
attention of the Central Research Unit) unless transmittal 
by cover letter has been specifically requested. Routing slips 
may be used to notify the Bureau of routine administra-tive 
matters, such as temporary suspension of a -publication {e.g., 
during summer months, lack of funds),'temporary delay in obtaining 
or receiving particular issues of a publication, or other informa­
tion which will keep the Bureau informed relative to the status 
of these publications. To avoid confusion, nonevidentiary copies 
which have been marked for identification {source, Agent, date, 
and place of acquisition) should be fu;rther annotated: "Not 
Evidence." 
Letters should be used in connection with initiating action or 
ceasing action to obtain publications desired by the Bureau; to 
call to the attention of the Bureau specific items of information 
connected with these publications; and tn those· instances in 
which good judgment dictates that certain circumstances or 
information should be recorded in letter form. 
(2) Each SAC and· each legal attache must keep the Bureau, attention 
Central Research Unit, informed on~ current basis regarding 
publications (including books) of potential interest that are 
not included in the current· list of publications which is 
supplied periodically to the field and to the legal attaches. 
These publications would include those published by subjects 
of security or counterintelligence investigations and publications 
which may otherwise have a security or counterintelligence . 
significance. 
(3) Each SAC and each legal attache should insure that the handling 
of publications for which his office is responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. Subscriptions to these 
publications should be followed closely to insure that the • • 
publications are received at the Bureau on a current basis. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication in sufficient time to enable the 
( 
Bureau to determine the necessity for renewal. l _ 
Docld:32989529 Page 1019 
5a 
10-31-69 
