l07M-N SECTION 107 .• CURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDE.AL SOURCES. 
[ 2. Submit quarterly letter \(FD-45lb) to Bureau by secure "teletype -system 
[ (lJITEL). Quarterly letter should include the following: 
[ a:. :Harne, location and number of subversive groups including identities ( 
( of groups on college campuses, exclusive of those in black extremist, 
[ white hate or espionage matters. 
[ b. Symbol numbers of membe~ informants providing coverage who are members 
[ of organizations. If no member .. informant, attach addendum and e:x:plain 
T why you do not have member informants. Indicate specific action being 
[ taken to develop member informants and date such covera.ge is a.ntici-
[ pated for ea.ch group. 
[ c. Identities of individuals or groups who have participated in or a-re 
[ active in planning subversive acts of violence, e:x:clusi:ve of _those 
( in black extremist, white hate or espionage matters. 
[ d. Symbol numbers of informants and sources· providing coverage of 
[ individuals or groups shown in Column C. If no member informant, 
[ attach addendum and explain why you do not have member informants. 
( Indicate specific action being taken to develop member -int-o•rmants 
[ and date such coverage is anticipated for each group.] 
N. SIGNING OF LOYALTY OATHS, AFFIDAVITS, AND STATEMENTS 
1. :Make every effort to guide informants away from \Situations requiring them 
to sign or fill ,out loyalty oaths or forms. 
2. Informants should be cautioned to keep contacting Agent fully advised of 
any situation wherein they might be ·required to sign such a form. Advise 
Bureau promptly of all such situations which cannot be avoided. 
3. Bureau will consider as last resort advising another agency of informant's 
relationship with Bureau, together with pertinent facts concerning infor­
mant's activity; however, such situati·ons must be kept to mi-nimum in view 
of· obvious dangers to informant. 
4. Each such situation must be carefully considered and Bureau advised as 
promptly as possible, ·together with appropriate recommendation for pro­
posed ~cti on. 
5. In no ~nstance should you permix informant to sign loyalty oath in negative. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1121 
18 
.3-13-72 
( 
