6G 
[ • 
[ 
[ 
2. 
• 
N.RT I.I" j 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND· PUBLIC CONTACTS 
I.d-e.n:tification orders, wanted flyers, check circulars, and apprehension 
orders . . 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of indi7iduals 
and organizations• to which identification orders,· wanted flyers, check 
circulars, and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each field office must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see· that .no data is sent- to 
firms which have ceased. business or have merged with other organizations. 
A survey should be conducted by Agents each year by every office, at the 
time the field office mailing list is purged, to determine whether addi­
tional names of individuals and businesses should be added to the field 
office mailing list. 
a. Addressograph plates are to be prepared at tµe Bureau_ upon receipt of 
field request. (The Bureau will prepare, on•it~ own initiative, 
Addressograph plates- for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decide what ·organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on 
the list. 
(1) The quality of the .assistan~e the addres.see is in a posit•ion to 
give _ 
(2) The cooperation which has-been-afforded 
(i) The following must appear on the list: 
Alc.ohol and Tobacco Tax Division Missions Providing Lodging· 
Bureau of Customs Post Office Inspectors 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus Postmasters 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce-
• ment Officers 
FBINA Graduates 
Hotels 
Immigration and Naturaliza-
tion·service . . 
(4) The following ~ay appear on the list: 
Salvation Army 
Sec·ret Service 
U. S. Marshals 
Automobile Qlubs _Navy Shore· Patrol 
Banks .. . Oil Company Special .A.gen.ts 
[Car Re~tal Agencies] Parole and Probation Of~icers 
County Attorneys Plant Quarantine Officers 
County Coroners -Protective Associations 
Credit Companies Race Tracks 
Detective Agencies Savings and. Loan Associations· 
Enlistment Officers,[U. s. Air Service Recruiting Officers 
Force,]Army, N~_vy, Marine Corps State Employment Offices 
Employment Service State Hospitals for Insan.e . 
Fire Departments Steamship Companies 
Fa.rest. Service Telegraph Companies 
Gunsmiths • U .- S . .Attorneys 
Insurance· ·Companies U .. s. Co.mmissioners 
Movie Studios :•· 
c. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific. request. 
Should a compelling reason· exist f_or distribu·tion-· of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approvai for 
such ~istribution. 
d. Give ',{;nsideration to the desirability- of circularizing motels. 
e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has re:;;ponsibi'ii~fy for instructing other offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
4 
2-27-62 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 969 
\. 
T 
C 
(· 
