13-00000 
534 
Mr. MU&f'.HY. I hon"8tly couidn't find anyone, or I am noi aware of anyone 
that the division or the CI Staff, that ls, those officers concerned with thta 
case, were handling It directly. I don't know of any former Soviet Intelligence 
officer or other knowledgeable • source to whom they spoke about ~. matter 
who. felt this would have been possible. If someone did. I never heard of It. 
Mr. KI.EIN. During this lnterrogaUon period, beginning in April 1964, would 
it be f1:1.ir to i:;1:1.y tllat tlle questions relating to Oswald and the problems which 
you have just been discussing relating to Oswald· consfll.tuted a major area 
for questioning and In Interrogating Nosenko? 
Mr. MURPHY. Probaby not. 
Mr. KLEIN. Why would tli.athave been? 
Mr. MURPHY. Because there were many other areas which posed. equally Inter­
esting aspects yet about which we knew much more and which had occurred 
abroad and· involved collateral knowledge, which obviously • 1s not easy, for us 
to obtain In the Soviet Union. • 
Mr. KLEIN. Who In the Soviet Russia. division made the decision as to who. 
would question Nosenko, subsequent to Aprll 4? 
Mr. MURPHY. COIA employee], chief of the group. , 
Mr. KLEIN. And do :rou know of any criteria that he used to pick his Inter­
rogators? 
Mr .. MURPHY. Some knowledge of Russian, as Nosenko's English was .not good, 
the fact that he had been exposed. Well, that ls one of the aspects of the CIA 
Interrogation. You try not to use too many people because·you then lose. In the 
first place, you are dealing with a potentially hosWe guy who ls liable to go 
back to the Soviet Union, or. return to the other side, and so you don't want t.o 
expose too many officers, plus the fact It ls not a good Idea· to simply bring a lcit 
of people ln. You have to have people who studied the case and became In depth, 
know It In depth and therefore, so they use the officers that they had available 
and there were a variety of crlterlA. • 
Mr. KLEIN. As I mentioned to you In our conversations about a week ago, 1t ls 
our Information that the person who Interrogated Nosenko about the Oswald 
matter had no background whatsoever In Oswald, he didn't know anything 
about Oswald's background or really about Oswald at all. Is there any reason 
that such a person would be used that you can tell us? . 
Mr. MURPHY. I am not sure I understand. I thought the point was that he had. 
he was not a man of a lot of background In the CI debriefings or Interrogations. 
I wasn't sure of the point he didn't know. about Oswald. I am not sure very 
many of us knew very much about Oswald than was available at the tune. 
Mr. KLEIN. Two points--
Mr. MURPHY. The reason that the chap was chosen was because he was level­
headed, extremely toughmlnded, and was going to be with the case for the 
long pull. Be was not going to be changed. That ls why he was used. And his 
career since then has borne out the Judgment of many, he ls a very good officer. 
Mr. KLEIN. But wouldn't--
Mr. MURPHY. I don't know that he didn't, that he wasn't what you are saying, 
he knew nothing at all about Oswald's case. I find that difficult to believe. But I 
don't know .. 
Mr. KLEIN.· Well, If I asked you to consider a hypothetical situation, where I 
told you the officer who Interrogated Oswald knew nothing about Oswald other 
than what he learned from Nosenko, would you think that was unusual that 
they would not, If they didn't have somebody already who knew about Oswald, at 
least given somebody a thorough briefing from A to Z, everything that the OIA 
knew abottt Oswald, would you think It was unusual, that they didn't do that? 
Mr. MURPHY. I would certainly think so. 
Mr. KLEIN. The second part of my question was the other point I made to you 
a week ago when we spoke, to our knowledge, let me be frank, we spoke to the 
particular officer In a deposition, so that our knowledge Is gained from . that, 
It ls possible that since I have not seen the typed up deposition that what I say 
might not be exactly what the deposition says, but my recollection of It ls that 
he also had little or no prior Interrogation experience, and my question ls would 
that be-
Mr. MURPHY. That wouldn't surprise me because there were very few people, 
relatively few people, In the Division or Indeed elsewhere who had a lot of 
Interrogation experience. We hadn't done a lot of very many hosUle CIA debrief­
ings. People who might have been used were probably otherwise, either abroad, -
