,. 
,, 
( 
( 
( 
PART II 6C - D 
SECTION 6 o PUBLICATIONS 1 PRESS , AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
C. SPEECHES 
1. The speech program is the personal responsibility of the SAC7 and the 
SAC or ASAC should handle principal commitments. If neither available, 
these cart be handled by an experienced and well-informed Agent 
approved for the commitment by the SAC or ASAC. Good judgment should 
dictate when a manuscript should be submitted to FBIHQ for approval in 
advance of a speaking engagement, particularly in regard to radio and 
television appearances. 
2o It is not necessary to advise FBIHQ of each speaking engagemento Each 
office will maintain for a minimum of one year and one regular office 
inspection a control file in connection with acceptances and declinations 
of speech invitationso Each year on January 10th and on July 10th. 
each office will submit to FBIHQ a statistical report of speaking 
commitments handledo This will be divided into engagements by the SAC> 
the ASAC, and other Agent Supervisors; and will be further subdivided 
into speeches as well as radio, television, and Career Day appearances 
by these three groupso 
3. Each office should maintain a speech material ,file for the use of speakers .. 
This should include Law Enforcement Bulletin items, interesting case 
material, magazine articles, research literature, newspaper clippings 
pertaining to law enforcement matters of interest, and i!ems of value_i~ 
connection with public appearances of Bureau representatives. In addition 
to being maintained in current status, this §peech material should be 
indexed as to subject matter in the office files .. 
D., INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting cases may be: 
a. Requested by the Bureau 
bo Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c. Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
ao Major importance 
b. Public interest 
c. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
do Novel investigations of human interest 
3o They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b .. Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
d.. Accurately 
e., After a review of the entire file · 
fo In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
ho To include as many pertinent photographs as possible to make the 
write-up interestingo The photographs should not necessarily be of 
subjects alone but should be of paraphernalia used by the criminal, 
photographs of unusual loot obtained, scenes of various locales, etc. 
If photographs submitted do not belong to the FBI, it is necessary to 
inform the Bureau of their source and whether the ovmer of the photo­
graphs has any objection to their being reproduced in publications. 
i. Each portion of the write-up should be documented as to the identity 
of the report or other communication from which facts were takeno The 
documentation should be set off by parentheses and follow immediately 
the portion of the write-up to which it pertains. 
2a 
5-28-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32:989529 Page 1100 
