Secret 
During the 1968 Republican National Convention, secure electronic 
circuitry was installed between the Fountainbleu Hotel and CIA Langley 
Headquarters. The circuit was patched through the Langley facility to the 
CIA communications radio station at the Richmond Naval Air Station. 
Provisions were made to provide the Secret Service with name trace 
information on foreign nationals on a timely basis during the 1968 Republican 
National Convention and the 1972 Democratic and Republican National 
Conventions. In the latter instance, requests were made by. Secret S_ervice 
Headquarters to CIA Headquarters and communicated to CIA/ODO, Miam'i, 
for action. 
In 1969 the CIA Latin American Communications Activity (AMCA) 
( 
Headquarters was relocated from Washington, D.C., to Miami. This activity 
provides the operational, technical, and management support to the Diplomatic 
Telecommunications Service and CIA covert operations throughout La'tin 
America. AMCA Headquarters also took over all CIA communications facilities 
and responsibilities in the Miami area. 
All CIA monitoring activities ceased in 1972. The Richmond Naval Air 
Station radio base station ceased operation in early l 972. In May 1974 the 
special ODO contract facility that monitored Cuban communications, located_ 
in Homestead, Florida, was closed. At the same time, the secure 
communications circuitry between the ODO cover office responsible for name 
traces was also terminated. 
Liaison was conducted with the FCC, the GSA, and the Anny for 
purposes of cover and with the Armed Forces Courier Service. 
Although very little communications support for Cuban operations was 
provided after I 968, on one occasion an anti-Castro group was given support 
in the form of radio signal plans and technical guidance on how lo best install 
radios in small boats. 
The Burns Detective Agency was contracted to provide security service 
and operated CIA-owned radios as part of their security posture. Cover. for 
the 
the 
Naval Air,:Station communications facility continued to be provided 'by 
• ~ . ' 
Army for cover. 
Contact with the Miami police did occur after 1968 as the result of 
using an office in a Miami police station for three months to train a Surinam 
5 
Secret 
Hlf 50955 DocI<l.:32105602 Page 6 
Photocopy 
from 
Gerald R. Ford Library 
