V 
( 
E. 
(. 
PART II 6D - E 
SECTION 60 PUBLICATIONS, PRESS> AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
4. Do not: 
a. Identify law enforcement officers by name but by title and NA af•filia-
tion 
b. Show aliases of subjects of Dependents Assistance Act- of 1950 
c. Show aliases or victims of WSTA cases 
d. Use complicated sentence structure 
e. Use technical references to ·statutes 
f. Express personal opinions 
g. Reveal identity of confidential informants. 
h. Use Bureau expressions like 11the subject" and "the Bureau" 
i. Prepare interesting case write-ups on juveniles, sex offenders, and 
parole violators but submit these by letter 
j. Use adjectives excessively 
5. Transmittal 
Set forth all data necessary for Bureau's consideration at the beginning 
.. of write-up and then follow with interesting case datao Transmit by 
routing slip, Attention: External·Affairs Division. 
6. Dissemination 
[Fi·eld Offices will be advised by routing slip when new write-ups are pre­
pared. If copies are desired; an appropriate letter should be submitted 
to the Bureau, Attention: External Affairs Division, setting forth the 
specific use for which the write-up is intended. In instances where 
write-ups, either t~ose previously prepared.or those to be published in the 
future, may be released outside the Bureau, it.will be necessary to. first 
obtain Bureau approval. • 
7. Interesting case control (ile • 
A copy of all communications concer~ing the dissemination of write-ups 
outside the Bureau is to. be pla~~d in the 1nteresting Case Control file.· 
-These communications should contain the .identity o.f the pe1:son to. whom t:t1e 
write-up is being made ayailal;ile, as w~ll as the purpose for which i.t is to 
be used.] · 
CIRCULAR LETTERS , TRADE AND BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS 
1. Circular letters must be approved in advance by the Bureau and sent in by 
the office initiating the request . 
. 2. SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-
type institutions within their own divisions to expedite circul~rization 
of known serial numbers of money inciuded in the loot taken in a bank 
robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny. On a highly sele~tive basis, 
on approval of the SAC, leads may-be set out to contiguous offic~s to 
circularize banking-type institutions in those divi•sions, and the Bureau·. 
should be notified that this action is being taken unless advised to 
the contrary. Communications setting out- such leads must include suf­
ficient facts to enable the Bureau to properly evaluate and justify the 
additional circularization. In-all other cases prior Bureau approval 
must be obtained in accordance with existing rules governing circular 
letters. In all instances the circular letter must include the following: 
a. A brief concise statement concerning the bank r~bbery, bank burglary, 
or bank larceny and the fact that included in the loot or money 
taken was money, the serial numbers of which are known 
b. List of known serial numbers according to denomination, series year 
if known, alphabetical order, and numerical sequence 
c. A statement that the matter is to be treated confidentially 
d. A cautionary statement that no bank employee should take any action 
which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety 
e. The address and the telephone number of the field office with a 
statement that any person should contact the field office by calling 
collect 
3 
5-28.,..74 
NW 38321 Docld:3.2989529 Page 254 
