( 
•, 
( 
,,, 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
2. 
3. 
4. 
L. SAC 
1. 
2o 
3. 
PART II. • 
PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
,Included in the index may be individuals in Governmeni, business, or 
industry. Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information. Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. • 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. An index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards m·ay be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when~ 
ever the SAC feels it is pricticable ta do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a lock,ed, steel file cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in the field office. The cards· shall pertain only to the 
territory covered; under such circumstances there shall be no duolioate 
cards in the·fiel.d'. office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete. 
Index sources of information in the general offLce.ihdexj do hot remove 
such inde1·cards at the time obsolete c~rds are deleted from the special 
source of information index. 
Files 
Do not make up files or·write memoranda for the pre~aritio~·oi sources 
of information. • • 1.. • 
Security.and racial sources of information ·' • 
Every four months a letter of justification shou:l.d·be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and racial 
sources of information. See section 107N,[3b,)volume rv, of·the Manual of 
Instructions for form to be followed. If the security or racial source of 
.information is not being paid on Bureau authorization and is being used 
regularly, the Agent handling the source of information must dictate a 
memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certification as to 
stability and reliabi'.!-ity as required by payment letters. 
Gifts to sources shall not be reclaimed as blue_Jlip items. 
CONTACTS 
SAC contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, can 
,and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual and highly, 
valuable assistance to the FBI upon the request of the SAC. • 
A co_mplete file review must be made on each contact (fiie ,review on 
spouses, near relatives, or business· not necessary unless ·special· 
circumstances prevail). • ' • • • 
SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Reques.t this approval 
by letter to the Bureau captioned " ___ , SAC Contact. 11 I1ark the 
letter for· the attention of the Crime Records Division. 
Use the following subheadings in the order given: 
a. Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact can provi~e 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Derogatory information 
f. Recommendation of SAC· 
Submit an original and two copies,[but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the corr.munioation.) If the SAC contact is 
~pproved,[the single-page)copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to the field, If the contact is not approved, a[letter]is to be submitted 
to the field stating why the individual cannot be used as an SAC conta~t. 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not pro­
posing individuals who because of business connections or personal 
. 7 
2-29-60 
NW 383,2;1 Docld:32989529 Page 364 
