13-00000 
. . 
2: What do Jou.li~mider to be your primary responsibilities and priorities as an ARRB member? • 
I see our prl.maty responsilJilities as: 
(1) Overseeing and cUrccting the prompt collection £mm govcmmcnt offices of .an·· 
Kennedy usassination recotds that have not yet been transmitted to tho 
National Archivos, and.diiectins a prompt public disclosum of all appropriate recmds. . • . 
(2) Gathering input and infoDDad.on from the public to ensure that concerns are 
addrcs~ and that all appopriatc tCCOrds are requested and received. 
, 
(3) Applying in a fair manner the standards set forth in the Act regarding .. 
postponement of .the release of record&, keeping in mind the strong 
Congressional intent expressed in the Act favoiing public ~osme. ~~:-'" 
j 
., __ J ). 
• (4) Assuring the Congress and the American public that information about the 
(5}_ 
Kennedy assassination i& not being bidden by any branch or agency of the 
federal government . 
A$, the lawyer on 1hc panel, I believe that I have additional ~sponsibilitics to 
help ensum that appropriate and f~ processes are established to guide the 
collection and-rdease of records. that legal quesdons me addressed prompdy 
and thoroughly, and that any necessary investigations are handled properly. 
3. How do you envmon your relationship and responsibilities - as an ARRB member - . 
to (a) the President, (b) the Congress, and (c) other exemtive branch agencies? • 
(a) My responsibilities to the President are to provide a regular and detailed 
accounting of the work of the AR.RB. and to provide concise and thorough . 
postponement and release decisions in order to expedite the Prcsident•s mview 
of ARRB decisions affecting executive branch agencies. 
Although ARRB is an independent agency. it is important to have a smooth 
working relationship with the President in order to ensure that the process 
established by Congress works well. 
' (b) . My rc&poDS11>ilities to the Congress are to implement the law promptly and in 
the manner intended by Congress. to provide on a regular basis a detailed 
accounting of-the worlc of the ARRB, and to respond appropriately to all 
Congressional mquirles and rcquem. 
(c) My. responsi~ilities toward and relationship with other executive branch 
agencies arc to work cooperatively but firmly in ensuring early transmittal of 
documents to the National Archives. My iesponsibility includes working with 
the agencies to ensure a complete understanding of agencies' responsibilities 
under the latJ.' and fairly and independently reviewjng agencies' requestS to 
postpone disclosure of any records. 
John R. Tunhcim f-::iinnn'"'' ')£. 1 OOA 
