13-00000 
"' . 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
CASTRO'S SPEECH: 
Fidel's .27 November speech to the students at Havana 
University evidently had been scheduled some weeks ago, be-
fore·the assassination of President Kennedy, and was in­
tended as a fairly sweeping review of the country's economic 
situation, post-Hurricane Flora salvage operations and, 
lastly, the regime's plans for changes in the educational sys­
tem. In fact, it was the third time in a week that Castro has 
addressed himself publicly and at length to the death of the 
late President and to imputations that the Castro regime was 
involved in any way. On 24 November Castro had displayed 
considerable apprehension that already strained US-Cuban re­
lations would worsen markedly as a cqnsequence of the' assass;i­
nation. We do not have an adequate text of Castro's seemingly 
impromptu remarks of 26 November to a group of high school 
students; but that speech apparently went little beyond his 
statement on the Sunday following Mr. Kennedy's death. The 
address of 27 November obviously was a carefully prepared ref­
utation of charges of complicity between Castro's regime and 
Oswald. 
Whatever the Cuban leader's intent, textual analysis of 
the speech neither proves nor disproves that he had advance 
knowledge of the plot. He is determined to indict unnamed 
"reactionaries" in the United States with conspiring to murder 
the Prestdent, using Oswald as their innocent dupe, and to 
frame Cuba in order to provoke punitive action by the US Gov­
ernment against the revolution. To this end, he presented a 
considerable body of "evidence"--much of it admittedly specu­
lative--based on what is generally known about Oswald, the 
"normal" behavior pattern of paranoiacs, the weapon the killer 
used, the technical difficulties presented by the use of a 
telescopic sight, the 36-hour Dallas police interrogation of 
the alleged killer and, finally, Oswald's death at the hands 
of Jack Ruby in the basement of the Dallas police headquarters. 
Castro rehearsed the details of Oswald's 27 September 
application at the Cuban consulate in Mexico City for a Cuban 
visa and pro~ested the 23 November arrest of two employees of 
the consulate by Mexican authorities. (Castro's remarks were 
followed up on 28 November by the delivery of a formal pro­
test by the Cuban Foreign Ministry to the Mexican Government-­
which rejected it.) Oswald's Dallas television interview in 
July, his attempts to infiltrate the pro-Castro Fair Play for 
Cuba Committee,and his street brawl with anti-Castro refugees 
in New Orleans--all were intended by those behind Oswald to 
mislead public opinion, according to Castro ... And, finally, 
the decision of the Dallas police to "close" the Oswald case 
with the shooting of Sunday, 24 November, "demonstrates that 
the persons guilty of the death of Kennedy needed and urgently 
had to eliminate the accused at any cost ... so that he would 
not talk .... " 
-1-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
