14-00000 
, 
I. 
. !· 
i 
! 
4. tr deemed neceeol\ry by CIA, the E~~lcyee may be re­
imbursed or advanced fundo for oprratlon11l exren::t>::. Such amounts 
muet be advanced or relmburnem~nt made ln RcccrJl\n~e with CIA reir­
ulat Lone, which require a full accounting of the a~ounte expended 
by t~e Employee. Therefore, the Employee will be required to ac­
count fully for any such funds advanced or reimbursed ln accord­
ance with CIA regulations. 
ARTICLE I I I. vereel\o Allowances l\nd Trl\ns -.'rtl\t 1 on P:x ens es. 
When epeclflcally authorized by the ADSO, t 1e ex ► ensee ot trave 
and tran~portatlon of the Employee, hla immediate family, house­
hold iroode and effects, including personally owneJ automobile and 
other allo~ancee, will be paid the Employee ln accordance with the 
_ Foreign Service Act of 1946 and regulations lesueJ thereunder by 
·the Departmer.t of State. When authorized by the ADSO, the Employee 
shall be paid a quarters-allowance, coat of llvlnf allowance, or 
special foreign llvlng allowance ln accordance with the Forelwn 
Service Act of l-946 and regulations issued ti,ereunder. The amount 
of quarters and· cost of living allowances and the special forelwn 
llvlpg allowanc~ le set forth in Bureau of the Sudget Circular 
.A-8, ·which le amended periodically to r.eflect adjustments ln price 
_indexes. Therefore, such allowances will be subject to change, 
and the amounts paid will vary accordlnir to Budget Circular A-8. 
ARTICLE IV. Annual nnd Sick Leave. The Employee shall be 
permitted annual leave, sick leave, and leave of absence ln ac­
cordance with Title IX, Part D of the Foreign Service Act of 1946. 
Under such Act, the Employee may be granted not to exceed sixty 
calendar days annual !Eave of absence with pay ln each year. An­
nual leave which the Employee ma, receive and which le not used 
ln any one year shall be accumulated for succeeding years until 
lt t~tals 180 days. Sick leave with pay may be granted to the 
Employee at the rate of flfteen calendar days each calendar year 
and may be accumulated for succeeding years until it totals 120 
days. 
1. If the Employee ls transferred from another Govern­
ment Agency to this posltlon, any annual or sick leave standinw 
to his credit in such Agency, may be transferred, if appropriate, 
in accordance with E. O. 9837, 27 March 1947, issued pursuant to 
Section 935 of the Foreign S~rvice Act of 1946. 
ARTICLE V. Return to the United States. The Employee shall 
be ordered to the United States on leave of absence or permanent 
change of station upon completion of two years continuous service 
abroad or as soon as possible thereafter. 
.. ·,r,, . . -· 
t 
