i 
i 
! 
18. SIGNATURE OF WITNESS 19. DATE (Mo,., day, year) 
CA-1 & 2 
Rev. May, 1973 
.. . . -· ....I 
DISABILITY BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES UNDER THE FEDERAL 
EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT 
The Federal Employees' Compensation Act ad­
ministered by the Office of Federal Employees' 
Compensation (OFEC) provides the following 
basic disability benefits for employment related 
injuries or occupational diseases: 
1. Full medical care. 
2. Payment of compensation for wage 
loss. 
3. Payment of compensation for perma­
nent impairment of certain members 
or functions of the body <such as loss 
or loss of use of an arm, loss of 
hearing, etc.) or for serious disfig­
urement of the head, face or neck: 
4. Vocational rehabilitation and • related 
services where necessary. . 
Medical care must be obtained from United States 
medical officers and hospitals when available and 
practicable. Otherwise, from any duly qualified 
private physician or hospital of the employee's 
choice. Qualified physicians may be used only if 
U.S. or designated medical facilities are not avail-
able, or if an emergency ·ex.ists .•• :- : ·: ,, '.: ;~ '> ·:· · ,.--.,. 
0 
•• 
1 
Compensation is paid by check sent to the em­
ployee's home mailing address .. Compensation. 
for wage loss is payable only for. periods when 
an employee is in a non-pay status. The first 
three days in a non-pay status· are waiting days 
and no compensation is paid for these days un­
less the period of disability exceeds 21 days or 
the employe-e has suffered. a permanent disabil­
ity. Compf:nsation. is generally paid at the rate 
of 2/3 of an employee's . salary if he has no• 
dependents, or 3/4 of his salary if he has one 
or more dependents. 
Compensation is not paid automatic2.lly-an em­
ployee or someone acting on his behalf must 
claim it by filing OFEC form CA-4. This form 
may be obtained from the employing establish­
ment or the OFEC. In practically all cases medical 
reports are required before compensation may 
be paid, therefore arrangements should be made 
to have. medical reports submitted to the OFEC 
at the earliest possible date. 
If an employee stops work as a result of an 
employment related injury or occupational dis­
ease, he may: 
1. Use sick and/or annual leave, or 
2. Receive compensation from the OFEC. 
Before compensation may be paid, the OFEC must 
receive form CA-1 & 2; form CA-4; and medical 
evidence concerning the l"!a.ture and causal re­
lationship of the injury .. Medical reports must 
cover initial examination and the employee's con­
dition at the time claim for compensation is 
filed. In addition; if a case involves some com­
plication or conflicting, information; it.,may be 
necessary to obtain suppfemenfal information. 
• An.Jem.ployee;or someone acting· on his· behalf 
must complete the front of the form CA-1 & 
2 and file it within one year after the injury or 
disease occurs. However, under certain circum­
stances, the OFEC may waive the one-year re­
quirement if the front of the CA-1 & 2 is com­
pleted and the form filed within five years. 
If an employee is in doubt about his compensa­
tion benefits, he may write to the Office of Federal 
Employees' Compensation servicing the employ­
ing establishment. (Obtain the address of the 
OFEC office from the employing establishment). 
* GPO: 197r-0-49!>-070 
Page 
