[ 
6B - D PART II 
c. 
4. 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Ea.ch office must submit to the Bureau annually at least three sug-gestions 
for articles, identifying the :sugge:ated au,thor, a.nd briefly describing 
the nature of the suggested article. The article should not be prepared 
submitted, or mentioned to the suggested author until the Bureau directs' 
that it be obtained. Suggestions may cover any general or specifi.c sub-
ject of law enforcement interest, including the f.ollowing: 
a. Better inve·stigative or administrative methods and techniques of 
any nature, particularly those used or developed by FBI National 
Academy graduates 
b. Improved or unusual equipment being used 
c. Complicated, unusual, and well-handled cases which are illustrative 
of law enforcement problems ·and excellent police work 
d. Deleted 
e. Police and firearms training subjects 
f. Crime prevention articles from departments which have taken aggressive 
action to comba"j; j_uvenile delinquency 
g. Transmit all material to the Bureau under the caption: 
FBI Law Enforcement Bulletin 
Research (Files and Communications Division) 
SPEECHES . . 
1 o The speech program is the personal responsibili_ty of the SAC, and the 
SAC or ASAC should handle principal commitmentso If neither available, 
these can be handled by an experienced and well-informed Agent 
approved for the commitment by the SAC or ASAC. Good judgment should 
dictate ~n1en a manuscript should be submitted to FBIHQ for.approval in 
advance of a speaking engagement, particularly in regard to radio and 
television· appearances. 
( 
2 It is not necess.ary to advise FBIHQ of each speaking engagement.. Each 
office will maintain for a minimum of one year and one regular office 
inspection a control file in connection with acceptances and declinations 
-of speech invitationso Each year on January 10th and on July 10th. (, 
each off ice will submit to FB_IHQ a statistical report of speaking ,. 
commitments handled .. This will be divided into engagements by the SAC, 
the ASAC, and other Agent Supervisors; and will be further subdivided 
into speeches as well as radio, television, and Career Day appearances 
by these three groupso 
3o •Each office should maintain a speech material file for the use of speakerso 
This should include Law Enforcement Bulletin items, interesting case 
material,· magazine articles, research literature, newspaper clippings 
pertaining to law enforcement matters of interest, and i~ems of value_i~ 
connection with public appearances of Bureau representatives .. In add1t1.on 
to being maintained in current status, this speech material should be 
indexed as to subject matter in-the office fileso 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
lo Write-ups of interesting cases may be: 
a .. Requested by the Bureau 
b .. Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
c .. Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
ao Major importance 
b. Public interest 
c .. Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
do Novel investigations of human interest 
3 .. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
b .. Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
do Accurately . 
e. After a review of the entire file 
fo In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
go Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
2 
8-27-73 
_,..,~38=321 Docld:329895i9 Page 1073 
., 
