[ 
[ 
[ 
SECTION 107. •~CUHITY INFORHAN'.PS J,.J.-iD CONl<'IDEi-AL SOURCES 107N 
( 2) 
( 3) 
( 4) 
( 5) 
(12) 
(13) 
(14) 
Residence and mr:ploymcnt ( If no change s:i nee last justification 
letter, merely state nno change.") 
Current membership[and position hcld]in subversive organizations 
[(When justification is submitted for racial informants, sub­
stitute the word "racial" for the word nsubvereive.»)] 
Su1!h-nary of information furnished and/or services r·end.ered during 
pertinent period 
Amount paid f"or services and ezpcnsee by month 
(Initial justification letter should set forth amdunt, if any, 
ever paid under SAC authority.) 
Type and number of meetings attended and other activity 
Number of written and oral statements submitted 
(List separately.) 
Information furnished of unusual value 
Approximate number of persons on whom informant furnished coverage 
and their importance 
Steps being ta.ken to advance informan·l; 
Stabii~ty and ~eliability 
(Set forth personal weaknesses, domestic difficulties, indications 
of un·l;rustworthiness or unreliability, or [.' •,:.1er similar problems 
presented by informant, and steps being t. •• to prevent any such 
situations from later becoming source of~ .~rrassment to the 
:Dureau.) 
Indoctrination against disclosure • 
(Sta'i;e whether every opportunity has been taken to properly 
indoctrinate informant against making any disclosure of his 
~elationship with Bu~eau through any media.) 
All necessary action taken on information furnished 
l1i scellaneous 
(Any o·ther matters concerning informant I s operation whioh should 
be brought to Bureau's attention) 
(Where applicable, subs·ti tute potential informant, confit' •· -.1 
source, panel source, or source of information for the '1formant. •~) 
c. When payment to an informant has been authorized for a • • .a 
period of time, advise the Bure~u at least two weeks i ae of the 
expiration of the period for which payment has been ~ • .. , '.L:·.od· as to 
whether the s, .•'\-"ices of the informant are to be con·! .. J., 
d. Every four mt '.1J.S a letter of justification should ; ·• .1bmitted to 
the Bureau rf•.:. testing continuation of paymen·ts. Fo)' , .. form in 
subsection 3t. 
e. Letter .,,.equesting authority to continue (increase, • .. ,reas~) payments 
to an ., "ormant should be submitted in dupl.i!}ate exc,~ :; that the 
copy s:. ~ld consist only of the first page of the letter. When 
paymen ~s as requested by -the fi ,., d are approved, the single-page 
copy will be stamped "Api· .cved 11 ~--·t the Bureau and returned. If ·the 
recommendation is not ap.,,.i :• ·red, correspondence will be p:·-.-;~:>.red 
and t~ansmitted to the f5~:d. 
f. In or{; ,r for this system to func·tion properly, payment L . .rs must 
be explicit. 
g. When payments are au'chorized by the Bureau, it is the per,,;,nal responsi­
bility of each SAC definitely to assure himself that full value is 
being received, 
h. Discontinuance of payments 
If at any time it appears the information being produced by the 
informant is not cowmensurate with the payments being made to him, 
the payments should -1•e immediately discontinued or adjusted accordingly 
and the Bu:ceau promp·tly advised. 
i. Extrao rdi :, •,,.•y expenses 
In connec:· :,.n with the operation of paid infor·~ants, if any extraor- • 
dinary e~ :3sas are anticipated for which a.ppioval has not been given, 
obtain spe0ific Bureau authority. 
19 
10-13-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1542 
