• CONFIDENTIAL 
DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING U.S. 
POLICY IN VIETNAM 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 
JANUARY 15, 1968 
Chairman of the Brigad~ announced to the demonstrators that th~s 
Jocal demonstration was principally gathered to support women 
from around the United States who were gathered in Washington, 
D.C. toda~ as part of~ nation-wide demonstration sponsored by 
the Jeannette Rankin Brigade, to petition Congres~ to resolve 
the conflict in Vietnam. Bridges stated that inasmuch as it 
was not poss,ible for the demonstrators to personally contact 
their congressmen, most of whom were out of town; that following 
the presentation of a petition to Mayor Joseph Alioto, the 
demonstrators would then proceed to the Western Union Office on 
10th and Market Streets in San Francisco, so that the women 
protesters could send wires to their congressmen, protesting 
United States policies in Vietnam. Bridges indicated that the 
petitioners would request Mayor Alioto to convey to Congress 
their petition, which among other things urged Congress, as its 
first orde~ of business, to resolve to end the War in Vietnam and 
immediately arrange for withdrawal of all American troops from 
Vietnam; for Congress to use its power to heal the sick society 
at home and to make reparations for the ravaged lands left 
behind in Vietnam. 
A source advised March 2, 1967, that Mrs. H. 
Bridges, also known as Nikki Bridges, 35 
Kronquest Court, San Francisco, California, was 
listed as a recipient of a new yearly subscription 
to the 11People-'s Worldn (PW), expiration date· 
March 4, 1968. 
The PW is a west coast communist newspaper, 
pub_lished weekly in San Francisco. 1 .• • 
.... ~ .,.4 - ... ----
. ..,,.- --· --The next speaker was identified as Aile~ernandez. 
She spoke for approximately five minutes andl:rr;"i-~:1:r·exp·la±ne·d 
to the demonstrators who Jeannette Rankin is and what the purposes 
of the Jeannette Rankin Brigade are. She stated that the group 
has no principal spokesman and it is principally a group of 
women who are involved and committed in a fight for peace. 
Several of the demonstrators, led by Nikki Bridges, 
then proceeded to the Office of Mayor Joseph Alioto to present 
their petition. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
2 
W 88321 Dodd:32989545 Page '650 
