... 
~:., , • 
. :~~--·;.'.:.:·' 
C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 
- 2 -
• 5._ In the last elections Ja.gan ordered some of his {Indian) Peoples 
Progressive Party (PPP) supporters to join the United Front Party 
• {u7P) in order to impress the world in general and the US in particular 
that democracy in British Guiana was working. By virtue of the fact 
that the UFP membership was "growing," it was st obvious" that Jae;an 
was not a dictator. I was told this .by two Indian Guian~se who were 
working for Jagan. 
6. I was in British Guiana for a.bout 12 months on my latest trip. 
Since much of this time was devoted to geological surveying in the 
't hinterland, I was accompanied qy an Indian Guianese doctor. A well­
jli educated man of the uppe:r-middJ'.e class, he told me that a~ were 
· 1~ being smuggled into the country from Cuba. He did not go into any 
• \ detail on the subject, but he did mention that his sons, who were 
i J, reembers of the Progressiv:e Youth Organization (PYO) frequently brolJ.Sht 
1 }; : arms into their home, kept them for a while, and ~hen. disposed of them. 
/,Jl Tne doctor v.'aS so much concerned -- and pessimistic -- about the 
- situation that he emigrated from the country shortly after I departed. • 
· 1-. Malaria is: not a factor now. Even well into the interior there is 
less than l percent incidence. But anywhere away from the coast' 
filarias'is presents a problem. At first I did not believe it when my 
Indian Guianese doctor said that mosquito bites incurred in the 'day~ 
time were harraless but.mosquito bites at night would infect with 
. filariasis. After several months in the back country I believed him. 
The disease seems to affect women more than men, causing women's legs 
.to swell. But the disease 9 s affect on men 9 s sexual organs was not 
''exactly· encouraging. -· I •-never,,did .under:stand why, but my•· doctor said 
:that to be effective in detecting the disease a blood test. must be 
··made at night (preferab·ly between 11 p~m. and l a.m.), and analyzed 
. ·•quickly. If filariasis is treated promptly, a man's sexual prowess 
·.•,can be saved. •We found that the disease is·very common throughout 
the country~. 
·- end 
mt 50955 Docid:32423736 Page 29 
