13-00000 
-
__ ...... ~-· .. : 
·-:~~ -~ ?:.:: :.-
.,..1,. '-• 
. . 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Helms--
Mr. DULLES. Could I ask one question there? Do you recall oi: do you know 
at what time the name of Lee Harvey Oswald was carded, first came to your 
attention so it became a matter of record, in the A"gency? 
Mr. HELMS. Sir, I would want to consult the record to be absolutely accurate, 
but it is my impression that the first time that his name showed up on any 
Agency records was when he went to the Soviet Union. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Helms, in connection with your work you have supplied 
information to the Commission and we have requested inany things from yonr 
Agency. Can you tell the Commission as to whether or not you have-supplied 
us all the information the Agency has, at least in substance, in regard to Lee 
Harvey Oswald? 
Mr. HELMS. We have; all. 
Representative FORD. Has a member of the Commission staff had full access 
to your files on Lee Harvey Oswald?. 
Mr. HELMS. He has, sir. 
Representative FORD. They have had the opportunity to personally look at 
the entire file? 
Mr. HELMS. We invited them to come out to our building in Langley and ac­
tually put the file on the table so that they could examine it. 
The CHAmMAN. I was personally out there, too, and was offered the same op­
portunity. I did not avail myself of it because of the time element, but I was 
offered the sa.me opportunity. • 
Mr. ·RANKIN. Mr. Helms, can you explain, according to. the limitations of 
security,·the reasons why we examined materiais but did not always take them, 
in a general way? 
Mr. HELMS. Yes; I can. 
In our communications between individuals working overseas and iri Wash­
ington, we for security reasons have a method of hiding the identities of individ­
uals in telegrams and dispatches. by the use of pseudonyms and cryptonyms. For 
this reason. we never allow the original documents to leave our premises. How­
ever, on the occasion when the representatives of the Commission staff looked 
at these files, we sat there and identified these pseudonyms and cryptonyms and 
related them to the proper names of the individuals concerned, so that they 
would know exactly what the correspondence said. 
Mr. RANKIN. By that you mean the representatives of the Commission were 
able to satisfy themselves that they had all of the information for the benefit 
of the Commission without disclosing matters that would be a threat to security; 
is that right? 
Mr. HELMS. It is my understanding that they were satisfied. 
Representative FoRD. Mr. McCone,. do you have full authority from .higher 
authority· to make full disclosure to this Commission of any information in the 
files of the Central Intelligence Agency? 
Mr. McCoNE. That is right. It is my understanding that it is the desire of 
higher authority that this Commission shall have access to all information of 
every nature in our files or in· the minds of employees of Central Intelligence 
Agency. 
Representative FORD. On the basis of that authority, you or the Agency have 
made a full disclosure? 
Mr. McCoNE. That is correct. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. Helms, I have handed you Exhibits 868 and 869 directed 
to you acting for the Agency, the first one being from the Commission to you 
and the second one, 869, being your answer in regard to your full and complete 
disclosure in regard to your records; isn't that correct? 
Mr. HELMS. That is correct. May I say, Mr. Rankin, that any information, 
though, subsequent to this correspondence which we may obtain we will cer­
tainly continue to forward to the Commission. 
Mr. RANKIN. Thank you. Mr. Chief Justice, I ask 1e·ave to have those two 
exhibits, 868 and 869, received in evidence at this time. 
The CHAIRMAN. They may be admitted under those numbers. 
122 
