::.. 
( 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUF_F 
B. The Soviet Operation Bagins 
4. During the last two weeks of July, Soviet ships 
·carrying equipment and persbnnel for the build-up made 
their first voyages to Cuban ports, the first arri-ving in 
the period 26-29 July. Knowledg~ of some of these move­
ments reached CIA through routine intell'igence coverage· 
of Soviet shipping_before the ships reached Cuba. No 
particular significance is normally attached to such 
voyages. However, evidence gradually accum·u1atad that 
the "behavior pattern" of these ships was _similar to that 
of Soviet ships carrying arms to other countries, that 
even greater security measures than usual were in effect, 
that a number of the ships were coming from Baltic rather 
than Black Sea ports, .that some of these were· passenger 
ships, and finally that there was a general movement of 
BloQ shipping toward Cuba: on an unprecedented scale. 
5. ApparentJ_y, t_he first recognition of unusual 
activity in any intelligence publication ·was-a note in a 
daily review of economic intelligence for CIA internal 
use. Commenting on an NSA report that certain Soviet 
ships were en route to Cuba which had declared for other 
destinations, this paper stated on 1 August that "at 
lease some, if not all, of the ships involved probably· 
are carrying additional military equipment to Cuba." 
This statement was in direct contradiction to .N,s1\:~V.)s''Ct>m.:.. 
~ent -on the: same information; ·t·~·e~ ,,·that it "tende'a'.'to • 
cor,robe>rate a report by the Brazilian Ambassador in Havana 
(e.a.::r:t·ier1, in',t,efc'e~pte'd·•.•iby.:,NSA') • that Raul Castro had asked •. 
the USSR to take back excess war- materiel. 
6~ • CIA was also in disagreement with DIA over inter~ 
pretatio_ni.o:t intelligence on the movement of shipping to 
Cuba throughout the month of August. The resulting dif­
ficulties in coordination of the Central Intelligence 
Bulletin held up publication from 3 August to 9 August 
of the first item on the Cuban build-up in that publica­
tion. As late as 29 August, DIA in its own daily 
Intelligence Summary said that "The high volume of 
shipping probably reflects planned increases in trade 
between the USSR and Cuba ... " There were further dif­
ficulties resulting from CIA-DIA differences in the 
interpretation of photography of aircraft crates deck­
loaded on So~iet ships; the record shows that CIA was 
~-­
frwn • 
Gerald R. Foro ~ 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST. 
