' ' •. \"•'·•\ :\ k~\•,-}~ .~:_"\J ~' • •,.-
-., •• < 
-36-
D. Coup Planning and Attempts After October 15 
The decision to "de-fuse" General Viaux was passed to Viaux's 
father-in-law on October 17. The in-law responded that it did not 
matter because they had decided to proceed with the coup in any case. 
(Santiago 533, 17 October) At the final meeting of the CIA "False 
Flagger" and Viaux's father-in-law on October 18, the Agency was in­
formed that the coup would proceed on October 22, "and that the abduc­
tion of General· Schneider is first iink in chain of events to come." 
(Santiago 568, 19 October) An "emergency channel" of communication 
with Viaux was maintained. (Report on CIA Chilean Task Force Activities, 
18 November 1970, page 21) 
I 
As previously stated, by mid-October things suddenly looked brighter 
for a coup being mounted by the high-level Chilean military contacts. 
As a CIA overview statement in Track II stated: 
Coup possibilities afforded by the active 
duty military group led by General Valenzuela 
and Admiral Tirado had always seemed more 
promising than the capabili_ties of the Viaux 
group. These military officers had the abil­
ity and resources to act providing they de­
cided to move and organized themselves ac­
cordingly. 
(CIA Briefing Paper, "Special Mandate from 
the President on Chile," July 15, 1975, p. 5) 
By mid-October those military officers appeared to be moving in 
this direction. 
* 
On the evening of October 17, Colonel Wimert met with the Army Lt. 
Colonel and the Navy Captain. They requested 8 to 10 tear gas grenades, 
*Two·coup plotters, Generals Canales and Garin, made one last attempt to, . 11 \\ 
persuade General Schneider to change his anti-co.up position on October· 1s'.;_';-:11 L1 
The Station reported that the me~ting turned out: .tci be a "complete fiasi;.o. 
Schneider refused to listen to General Canales' eloquent· presentation of 
Communist action in Chile ... and adament in maintaining his non-involvement 
stance." (Santiago 548, 16 October) 
-
-
