• 
• 
• 
SECTION 107. [INT.AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND co~·ENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] , 
107 0 
0. DISCONTINUED INFORMA.NTS 
1. When services of informant are discontinued, mark name card "canceled." 
Destroy symbol card. Never destroy name card. 
2. Ref1le name card in numerical order by symbol number in symbol number 
index. If discontinued informant, potential informant, or confidential 
source to whom synibol number was once assigned later is reactivated, 
remove name card from symbol number index, mark it reactivated with ap­
propriate date, note type of information he will now be furnishing, and 
refile it alphabetically in name card section of index. 
3. When potential informant or confidential source is discontinued and 
permanent symbol has not been assigned, destroy alphabetical index card. 
4. Advise Bureau of date when potential informant or informant is discontinued 
and reason therefor. Advise Bureau as to whether or not informant is 
willing to testify in open court or before administrative hearing boards. 
Identity of all cases of security of Government employees type in which 
informant has furnished information must be ascertained and Bureau advised 
in compliance with section 19, volume II, of this manual. 
5. Review informant's file to determine if correspondence between Bureau and 
field relating to Department's interest in using informant as witness is 
contained therein. In those cases in which Department has indicated de­
sire to consider informant when he becomes available, advise Bureau in 
each such substantive case, except when it is obvious statute of limita­
tions has run or case has been adjudicated. This exception does not apply 
to security of Government employees cases. When above action is completed, 
advise Bureau. 
6. Statement shall also be made to effect that measures to control informants, 
set out in item 7, below, have been considered and recommendations shall 
be made when it appears such are warranted. 
7. When services of informant are discontinued, maintain close contact with 
him so that informant will look to Bureau for counsel prior to taking any 
action against Bureau's best interests. Determine whether he has plans 
for writing book, magazine or newspaper article, or otherwise publicizing 
his activity. If so, impress him with desirability of coming to Bureau 
for assistance and guidance. If informant insists on engaging in such 
activities, Bureau will consider placing him in contact with reliable 
publisher, but it must be made clear to informant that Bureau will not 
sponsor or endorse any book or publication which he elects to write. 
8. All payments to discontinued informants and confidential sources must be 
made on strict c.o.d. basis. Obtain Bureau authority before making such 
payments. Submit complete details as to information furnished by dis­
continued informant or source in past and what is to be expected of 
informant or source in future. 
9. Once informant is exposed in any manner whatsoever, do not carry him as 
a concealed source in reports or memoranda. His true name is to be set 
forth, together with descriptive data. 
10. When office receives information concerning, or obtains information from, 
an ex-informant, copies of memoranda prepared must be furnished to offi'ce 
which originaliy handled informant so that file will be as complete as 
possible. 
11. When informant has been discontinued for cause, such as unreliability, 
do not contact him in future for information. If he furnishes information 
it should be accepted, but in setting out information in reports or com­
munications use individual's true name, together with appropriate descrip­
tion of his reliability. 
12. Remove flash notice per item F, 6, e of this section. 
13. Avoid repeated use of discontinued informant as witness at security trials 
and hearings. Make all-out effort to develop witnesses who can furnish 
same testimony. Advise Bureau of any indication by Government attorneys 
that informant-witness who has previously testified will be called upon 
for testimony at subsequent trial or hearing and furnish comments concerning 
possibility of supplanting testimony of individual involved. Submit under 
appropriate case character • 
19 
10-15-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1496 
