• 
•· • 
• 
MEMOR.ANDLI}[ FOR: Deputy Director for Management and Services 
SUBJECT .. Special Report . 
• 
1. T~is memorandum is in response to a request to 
provide information on situations or associations that 
might appear to be irregular on the surface. 
2. Details to the White House and Govcrnnent Agencies ~ 
·Backgrouna: For nany years the Cencral Intelligence Agency has 
aetailed eraployees to the imme4iate office of the ~hite House 
per se and to compone~ ts associated ·int imc1 tely with the irarr.edia te 
office of the Presi~ent such as the Council on International 
Econonic Policy and the President's Foreign Intelligence 
Advisory Board. We have furnished secretaries, clerical 
employees and certain professional e~ployees on a reinbursable 
and non-reinbursable· basis. At the present ti~e,· we have no 
clericals or professionals assigned to· the inuilediate \'lhite 
House office, but we do have one young man detailed to their 
Communications Section. There are detailees to PFIAB and CIEP. 
I might point out th2t we had detailed to the White House as 
late as the fall of 1970 couriers, telephone operators, a . 
laborer assigned to the grounds and a graphics man ~ho des.igncd 
invitations for State dinners. By October of 1970, more funds 
were apparently available to run the \\"hit~ House and n0st of 
our dctailces ~ere hired as bona fide Khite House employees. 
CIA is not the only Agency furnishing the Khite House with 
detailees. Levies have been made by this Administration and 
others on Defense and State and other Government entities 
whose employees have Top Secret clearances. 
Professional officers have been and are at th~ present 
time assignedb the National Security Council and we have seven 
clericals on detail to NSC on a reimbursable basis. 
In addition to the above, we have technical specialists 
detailed to NSA, an instructor at the National War College and 
security officers.detailed to the Department of State to 
CONFIDENTIAL 
E 2 INPDET Cl By 003935 
■-■ .. 
00103 
----NW 38296 36 ~ 
