87D 
[ 
(2) 
I. 
NW 38321 
. '\ 
SECURITY INVESTI~TI~. 
{ . 
(e} Names shall be included in security index only when inves-
tigation has established and reports show sufficient facts ( 
and evidence to justify inclusion of each subject in secu-
rity index. 
{f) Contents of security index must be accurate and correct at 
all times. Matters pertaining to its preparation and main­
• -· tenance must be given preferred, expeditious, continuous, 
and detailed attention. 
(g) Matters pertaining to security index are strictly confiden­
tial and are not to be mentioned or alluded to in investi­
gative reports. 
(h) General operation and content of security index must not be 
discussed by field personnel of Bureau without prior Bureau 
authority. 
(i) Matters pertaining to security index may be discussed with 
duly qualified representatives of other Federal intelligence 
agencies only on a strictly confidential basis and only in 
instances in which an individual subject of prime interest 
to one of these services is involved. • 
Determination of dangerousness of ~n individual 
{a) The dangerousness of a member or affiliate of a subversive 
organization does not necessarily depend entirely upon his 
personal characteristics, such as aggressiveness or a dis­
position to violence. Al though these fa:ct·ors must be taken 
into consideration in evaluating an individual's potential 
dangerousness, other factors ·are essential in making this 
• determination. An individual's dangerousness also depends 
upon contribution he has made or is making in advancement 
of principles and aims of subversive movement with which he 
is connected or his subversive potentialities in event of a 
• national emergency. Bear in mind that a subject active in 
a subversive organization is not merely an isolated individ-
. ual but is a part of an organization of which the purposes (. 
are opposed to best interests of U. s. An individual's. 
- loyalty to a subversive organization and the principles 
thereof is a primary factor to take into consideration in 
evaluating his potential dangerousnes~;· however, regardless 
of evidence of subversive affiliation, all evidence devel-
• oped during course of a security investigation must be 
carefully weighed for purpose of determining whether sub­
ject's activities depict him as a potentially dangerous in­
dividual in time of a national emergency. Factors having 
a bearing upon a~ individual's potential dangerousness are 
numerous and will vary in each case in degree. 
Among such·factors are: 
I. Long continued membership in a subversive organization 
II. Affiliation with or attendance at training schools, 
especially leadership schools 
III. Frequent or regular attendance at organizatiqnal meetings 
and functions 
IV. Subscriptions to publications of a subversive organization 
V. Possession of or continued study of revolutionary litera-
ture . 
VI. Preparation or distribution of subversive propaganda and/or 
literature 
VII. Holding positions in subversive organization or 5.n ot-her 
organizations of a front character which indicate confi­
dence of such organizations in his loyalty 
VIII. Espousal of a subversive doctrine exemplified in his acts 
and utterances 
2052 \. 
{ 
