-36-
they had about 30, 30 families who resided there and 
their mission was there. And we became very friendly 
with them because of one incident, especially my 
husband, took, went to see his mother and left me in 
charge of the building. That same day they had a so­
called demonstration where the demonstrators had a 
25-minute picketing right to picket. The demonstra­
tion turned into a bloody riot where they burned flags 
and everything and the Albanians came down. They all 
are armed. They're all armed, and they agitated the 
rioters out on the street. And I was alone with only 
my basic police training and my wits, really, and a 
panicking doorman and my kids. I was just alone. I, 
the first thing I looked out the window when I heard 
the shooting I called the Bureau·and I said, "Get me 
Al Chestone fast." I said I don't have Louis here. 
I said I need help. I have a demonstration. I don't 
know what to do. And there were about 500 people 
throwing bricks, bottles, everything through the plate 
glass windows. Burning American flags and Albanian 
flags because of something that happened in Albania. 
Those that defected here started this demonstration. 
So then I, things got out of hand, the doorman was 
hurt with a brick. I saw blood, and the Albanian 
Ambassador and five top officials agitated these 
people from inside the lobby with fists. Very 
unprofessional-like. 
FS: Yeah. 
ML: So I physically pulled them by their coats and told 
them, "Get upstairs, get upstairs and get yourself 
back into the mission", because tenants were walking 
through the lobby and we were going to get hurt by 
flying glass and everything else. And I had no help. 
The police were outside of the line... • 
FS: Marita, what we're going into details is something 
that is a story. 
ML: Oh, alright. 
FS: So we'll go ahead and just bypass that. 
ML: Anyway, the Albanians Al was interested into, and 
especially because they were admitting the Red Chinese 
into the United Nations, which they did. It was that 
speech, which I have the original copy of. Ambassador 
Rocco Nacco - sounds crazy, but that's his name, Rocco 
NW 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 218 
