13-00000 
I 
'· ,. 
-
.. - ..... .---
··i•·•:.,;._.-·.· .. 
• _._. . -~.-~·-··.· 
Mr. DULLES. Thank you. 
Mr. BELMONT. Coming back to this item you inquired about, sir, the other 
dissemination to Secret Service concerning the security of the President is set 
forth on pages 2 and 3 of this inclusion in our manual, and it extends the dis­
semination to "subversives, ultrarightists, racists, and fascists, (a) possessing 
emotional inst.ability or irrational behavior, (b) who have made threats of 
bodily harm against officials or employees of Federal, State or local government 
or officials of a foreign government, (c) who express or have expressed· strong 
or violent anti-U.S. sentiments and who have been involved in bombing or booib­
making or whose past conduct indicates tendencies toward violence, and ( d) 
whose prior acts or statements depict propensity for violence and hatred against 
organized government." That was prepared in an effort to provide additional, 
and a voluntary effort, without request, to provide additional information that 
might be helpful to avoid such an incident as happened November 22, 1963. 
Mr. STERN. This did not come about, this change did not come about, through 
any request from the Secret Service or discussion with the Secret Service? 
Mr. BELMONT. No. We made these changes, as I say, in an effort to provide 
any additional information in the light of what happened that might be of 
assistance to Secret Service and might assist in protecting the President. 
Mr. DuLLEB. I wonder, Mr. Belmont, whether you would consider possibly 
changing in section (d) th~ word "and" to "or" whose prior· acts or statements 
depict propensity for violence" and then it nbw reads "and hatred against 
organized government". There have been cases, I believe, where the propensity 
for violence had not been previously noted but the hatred of organized government 
has. 
Mr. BELMONT. We will be happy to change that. 
Mr. DULLES. ·1 just suggest for your consideration, I don't wish to rewrite it; 
Mr. IJELMONT. We would be happy to change it, Mr. Dulles. 
Mr. STERN. Following Mr. Dulles' thought, in the line above that, Mr Belmont, 
should that "and" before (d). be "and" or "or"? Do you mean these---
Mr. BELMONT. We do not mean that all of these iteDis must be coupled together 
if that is your thought. 
Mr. STERN. That is right. 
Mr. BELMONT. We will be happy to change the "and" before (d) to an "or''. 
Mr. STERN. This means any of the broad classifications of people, subversives, 
nltrarightists, racists or fascists who meet any of these four tests. 
Mr. BELMONT. That is correct. 
Mr. STERN. Can you give the Commission some notion of the increase in volume 
.which the broadening of your criteria has brought about? By volume, I mean 
the volume of your references to the Secret Service. 
Mr. BELMONT. I do not have an exact figure, however, I do know that more 
than 5,000 additional names have gone over to Secret Service under these criteria. 
The CHAIRMAN. In what period of time? • 
Mr. BELMONT. Since we put them out. 
The CHAIRMAN. I see. 
Mr. BELMONT. Which was December 26. 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes. 
Mr. McCLOY. Have you included defectors in this list? 
Mr. BELMONT. Yes, sir; we do include defectors. 
Mr. STERN. You mean as of December 26, ·1963? 
Mr. BELMONT. Correct. 
Mr. STERN. Has the expansion of your criteria led to any problem or difficulty 
for you or for individuals or do you anticipate any problem or difficulty under 
the expanded criteria_? 
Mr. BELMONT. It seems to me that there is a necessity to balance security 
against freedom of the individual. This is a country of laws and a government 
of law, and not a governm'ent of men. Inevitably the increase in security means 
an increase. in the control of the individual and a diminishment, therefore, of his 
individual liberties. It is a simple matter to increase security. But every time 
you increase security you diminish the area of the rights of the individual. In 
some countries the problem of a visiting dignitary is met without much difficulty . 
18 
