13-00000 
OIM 99-0282 
29 October 1999 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information Review Group, OIM 
FROM: Charles A. Briggs 
JFK Declassification Project, OIM 
SUBJECT: The JFK Declassification Experience 
1. (AIUO) BACKGROUND: The impact of the JFK 
declassification law on Agency resources and information 
release decisions was dramatic and to the DO, traumatic . .--lf'he 
resource trauma stemmed from the unanticipated number of years 
required to complete the project. In a memorandum for the DCI 
dated 11 June 1993, the then-Director of the Center for the 
Study_of Intelligence outlined a plan for implementing the 
"openness philosophy'' espoused by both DCis Gates and Woolsey 
through a series of •cold War Declassification" projects~ He 
noted.that priority, by virtue of a Congressionally-maIJ.dated 
deadline of 22 August 1993, had been given to declassification 
of the JFK collection; however, he said, "with the ~nd of the 
JFK activity in sight," resources could be applied to the 
other proj~cts. Six years later (actually seven since the 
project got underway), we are almost finished. 
2. (AIUO) The substantive, versus administrative, 
trauma stemmed from the fact that the JFK Act superseded 
all other existing laws, including FOIA, the Privacy Act, 
the DCI's authorities, as well as Executive Orders and -
Regulations. 1 The Act presumed release. It did allow for 
appeal but only to the President from the DCI. It allowed 
"postponements" but 6nly if clear and convincing evidence 
was presented for each requested postponement and that 
release would demonstrably impair the national security. 
The net effect was the release of names, crypts, pseudos, 
methods, station locations (within specified dates), file 
identifier numbers, and tradecraft generally, which are 
protectable under the other laws - and which the Agency had 
1 See OGC-92-5325, 14 Dec 92 and OGC-94-52916, 19 Sep 94 (Attachment B) 
AIUO When Separated 
from Attachments 
CL BY: ~163i] 
CL REASON: 1.S(d) 
DECL ON: XS 
ORV FRM: LIA 2-82 
