Augmented chose a plan advanced by McCone that assumed Castro's continuance 
in power and had the more limited objective of splitting off Castro from 
"old-line Communists".* (August 10 Minutes, p. 2). The decision and "action" 
of the Special Group Augmented at the August 10 meeting was stated as follows: 
"The principal members of the Special Group felt, 
after some discussion, that the CIA variant should 
be developed further for consideration at next Thurs­
day's meeting of the Special Group. McCone was asked 
to stress economic sabotage, and to emphasize 
measures to foment a Castro-oldline Communist split." 
(August Memorandum, p. 2). 
* * * 
"Action to be taken: 
CIA to prepare a new version of i~ variant plan, 
in accordance with the above-summarized discussion. 
This should be ready by Wednesday, August 15." 
(August 10 Memorandum, p. 3). 
It was therefore in this context that Lansdale's August 13 Memorandum 
to Harvey stated that "in compliance with the desires and guidance expressed 
in the August 10 policies meeting on Operation Mongoose, we will produce an 
outline of an alternate Course B. "Indeed, pursuant-to the August 10 decision 
to adopt McCone's proposal for.a more limited plan that assumed Castrois 
continuation in power, Lansdale's memorandum stated that a CIA paper titled 
"Operational Plan (Reduced Effort) will be used as the starting basis." 
(Lansdale Ex. 15, p; 1) . 
- *I The August 10 Minutes show that McCone pointed out that the stepped-up 
Course B "will risk inviting an uprising, which might result in a Hungary 
type blood bath if unsupported". (August 10 Minutes, p. 2). McCone 
"emphasized that the stepped-up plan should not be undertaken unless the 
U.S. is prepared to accept attributability for the necessary actions, 
including the eventual use of military force''. (August 10 Minutes). The 
August 10 Minutes further stated that, in McCone's view, the CIA variant 
"would avoid all of these dangers because it would not invite an uprising". 
(August 10 Minutes, p. 2). ..,_ 
mt 50955 Docld: 32423.')39 Page 206 
