13-.000.00 
.• . . . · 
.......... -_.r-o ...... .- .. 
• 
. :: -~ .......... .. 
have the number 866 assigned to the memo that Mr. Hoover is going to send about­
protection of the President, and have it admitted to this record under that 
number. 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes; it may be. 
Representative FoBD. Also a number for this letter .Mr. Hoover is going to 
submit. 
Mr. RANKIN. May I assign 867? 
The CHAIRMAN. Yes. 
( Commission Exhibit Nos. 866 and 867 were marked for identification and 
receh·ed in evidence.) 
TESTIMONY OF JOHN A. McCONE AND RICHARD M. HELMS 
HAY l'-1 I 'i ''-I 
The CHAIRMAN. The Commission wi/1 be in order. 
Director McCone, it ls customary for the Chairman to make a short stat~ 
ment to the witness as to the testimony that is expected to be given. I will read 
it at this time. • 
Mr. McCone will be asked to testify on whether Lee Harvey Oswald was 
ever an agent, directly· or indirectly, or an informer or acting oil behalf of the 
Central Intelligence Agency in any capacity at any time, and whether he knows 
of any credible evidence or of any conspiracy either domestic or foreign in­
volved in the assassination of President Kennedy, also with regard to any 
suggestions and recommendations he may have concerning improvements or 
changes in provisions for the protection of the President of the United States. 
Would you please rise and be sworn? Do you solemnly swear the testimony 
you are about to give before this Commission shall be the truth, the whole truth, 
and nothing but the truth, so help you God? 
Mr. McCoNE. I do. 
The CHAIRMAN. Will you be seated, please? Mr. Rankin will conduct the 
examination. 
Mr. RANKIN. Mr. McCone, will you state your name? 
Mr. McCoNE. My name ls John Alex McCon·e. 
Mr. RAN][IN. Do you have an official position with the U.S. Government? 
Mr. McCONE. Yes, sir; I am Director of Central Intelligence . 
Mr. RANKIN. Have you been Director for some time? 
Mr. McCoNE. Yes; a little over 2½ years. 
Mr. RANKIN. Where do you live, Mr. McCone? 
Mr. McCONE. I live at 3025 Whitehaven Street in Washington. 
Mr. RANKIN. Are you familiar with the records and bow they are kept by 
the Central Intelligence Agency as to whether a man ls acting as an informer, 
agent, employee, or in any other capacity for that Agency? 
Mr. McCoNE. Yes; I am generally familiar with the procedures and the 
records that are maintained by the Central Intelligence Agency. Quite nat­
urally, I am not familiar with all of the records because they are very ext~sive. 
Mr. RANKIN. Have you determined whether or not Lee Harvey Oswa(d, the 
suspect in connection with the assassination of President Kennedy, had any 
connection with the Central Intelligence Agency, informer or indirectly as an 
employee, or any other capacity? 
Mr. McCoNE. Yes; I have determined to my satisfaction that he had no such 
connection, and I would like to read for the record-- • 
Mr. RANKIN. Will you tell us briefly the extent of your inquiry? 
Mr. McCONE. In a form of affidavit, I have gone into the matter in consider­
able detail personally, in my inquiry with the appropriate people within the 
Agency, examined all records in our files relating to Lee Harvey Oswald. We 
had knowledge of him, of course, because of his having gone to the Soviet 
Union, as he did, putting him in a situation where his name would appear in 
our name file. However, my examination has resulted in the conclusion that 
Lee Harvey Oswald was not an agent, employee; or informant of the Central 
Intelligence Agency. The Agency never contacted him, interviewed him, talked 
with him,. or received or solicited any reports or information from him, or com­
municated with him directly or in any other manner. The Agency never fur-
120 
