CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS 
The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, 
revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released 
by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States 
House of Rer.resentatives, contains the following on Page 43 
concerning 'Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms": 
1. "The (Communist) party's front operations in the 
Southern California District today are*** confined to fvur 
major organizations," which include the Citizens Committee to 
Preserve American Freedoms. 
"The Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms 
***specializes in propaganda aimed at abolishing the Committee 
on Un-American Activities and discrediting the Federal Bureau ef 
Investigation. Created in Los Angeles in 1952, the front 
organization is run by Frank Wilkinson, an identified Communist 
who recently resumed the full-time, paid post of executive 
secretary after approXimately a year's leave of absence to assist 
in a similar campaign by another front in New Y&rk City, the 
Emergency Civil Liberties C~mmittee. 
"When the Committee on Un-American Activities held 
hearings in Los Angeles September 2-5, 1958, to inquire into the 
nature of the party's recent reorganization in California, 
the Ci tiz.ens Cernmi ttee te Preserve American Freedems sponsored 
a series of public meetings to protest the hearings and the very 
existence ~f the committee. Communists subpoenaed as witnesses 
were guests of honor. 
-
"At this time, leaders of the party's Southern California 
District were mobilizing Communists in the area for participation 
in an intensified campaign to abolish this committee of Congress. 
How the Citizens Committee tc Preserve American Freedoms served the 
party in this effort was revealed by(Communist Party) District 
Chairman Dorothy Healey in a report to the party's S~uthern Californi, 
District Council en September 21, 1958. Mrs. HEALEY declared that th 1 
party preferred public protest meetings to be held by the Citizens 
Committee to Preserve American Freedoms rather than under party 
auspices because Communists could attend without danger of being 
exposed as members of the party. She also noted that Communists 
scheduled as congressional committee witnesses could not appear 
beforehand at openly Communist rallies without creating the im­
pression that the party was conspiring with witnesses to withhold 
information frwm the committee." 
NW 38613 Docld:34528578 60 
(Committee on Un-American Activities, -
House Report 259 on the Southern 
California District of the Communist 
Party, April 3, 1959, pp. 7 and 8.) 
APPENDIX 
18 
