14-00000 
,. ' 
Declaration of Teresa F. Wilcox 
I, Teresa F. Wilcox, hereby declare and say as follows: 
1. (AIUO) I am the Information Review Officer (IRO) for the 
Directorate of Science and Technology (DS&T). I was appointed to 
this position in February 1996, and have held various professional 
positions within the Central Intelligence Agency since 1985. I am 
responsible for the review of records maintained by offices in the 
DS&T, to include the Offices of the Deputy Director for Science and 
Technology and the Associate Deputy Director for Science and 
Technology; the Office of Technical Service (OTS); the Office of 
Technical Collection (OTC); the Clandestine Information Technology 
Office (CITO); the Foreign Broadcast Information Service (FBIS); 
the Office of Development and Engineering (OD&E); the Office of 
Advanced Analytic Tools (AAT); the Office of Advanced Projects 
(OAP); and the Office of Research and Development (ORD). In 
addition, I am responsible for searching and reviewing certain 
records of the former National Photographic Interpretation Center 
(NPIC) . 
2. (AIUO) I am aware that the DS&T has searched appropriate 
records systems for information responsive to all requests the DS&T 
has received. I have obtained this knowledge through my personal 
experience, as well my conversations with, and my review of the 
records of, the former DS&T IRO Anthony R. Frasketi, and the DS&T 
Information Management Officer, Marsha A. Hubbs. 
3. (AIUO) The following is a description of DS&T searches 
and review of documents undertaken in response to Board taskings 
the DS&T has received. 
CXA-XR-07 Claude Barnes Capehart. The DS&T made 
deletions to security records located by the Directorate of, 
Administra'tion. The DS&T Searched ODDS&T records for 
Capehart's medical fil~. The DS&T forwarded the medical file 
to the Board for its review. 
CXA-XR-08 Family Jewels Memorandum. The DS&T reviewed a 
package of documents forwarded by Barry Harrelson. The DS&T 
advised the Board it had no objection to ARRB access. 
CXA-XR-15 Electronic 'take' from Mexico City Station. 
This memorandum addresses the portion of the action, "In 
addition, the Board,is still awaiting a response on the 
present location of Staff D records. Regardless of the 
outcome of these particular searches, the Review Board 
continues to seek a full accounting for all surveillance 
conducted during the relevant time periods." 
