87D 
[ 
I 
NW 38321 
(8) 
.... 
SECURITY DTVESTIGA.Tl .. 
Changes; additions, and deletions of data appearing on security 
index cards 
(a) Submit to Bureau by J!'.D-122 any changes, additions, or deletions 
involving name, aliases, citizenship,,ortanizational affilia­
tion or nationalistic tendencies, dctcom classification, 
date or place of birth, key facility geographical reference 
number, abbreviation of agency having s·eourity responsi-
bility (sec 87D 7d (2) below), residence or buiincss 
address. Exception: Change office of origin by form 
FD-1280 
{b) Insertion or removal of cards from special section or 
unavailable section should be handled pursuant to 87D 
7b {6) (b) III or IV. 
(c) Temporary handwritten notations may bo made on existing 
secu~ity index cards pending receipt of corrected cards 
from Bureau. 
{d) Indicate use of FD-122 for c~anges by checking proper 
(e) 
(f) 
opening paragraph and submit wJ.tl:out abstrac-to 
Set out only i tmns being char..ged, adcle·d, or deleted-. 
If being. deleted, specify "Delete." 
Upon receipt fr:,m Bureau of corrected security index cards 
with duplicate copy of FD-122 {stamped "Corrected Security 
Index cards attached. Substitute for cards in file and 
destroy old cards o Place photograph and description on 
revers& side of geographical cards."), action to be taken 
includes: • • 
I. Check accuracy of data on pards 0 
II. Place office file number on f1ce of all cards. 
III. Transfer separate cards wit~ iescriptive flata and 
photograph from back of old geograp~ical section cards 
to back of corrected cards, staple them and file in 
geographical section. Exception: For special or 
unavailable section subjects, see ·a7D 7b (6) (b) 
III or IV above. 
IV. File(third]card in alphal· etical section of security 
index. 
V. Destroy old cards. 
• Hovcment of :;nbjects between offices and transfers of security 
index cards 
{a) Subjects of security index cards other than key figures 
and top functienaries 
I. Requests to verify addresses of security index subjects 
from other offices must be assigned immediately and 
results of investigation to verify the new address must 
be transmitted to the office of origin within two weeks. 
II. Office of ori~in, upon ~eceipt of verification of 
address, should submit FD-128 immeeiately trRnsferring 
office of origin. Forms regarding unavailable section 
subjects should be prepared in accordance with 87D 7b 
(6) (b) IV above. 
III. Submit original and one copy of FD-128 to Bureau. Sub­
mit two copies thereof to office covering subject•s new 
address, enclosing copies of all previous reports, other 
"pertinent serials,[photograph if available,[and security 
index cards. [I'D-128 shouJ:tl show full title.] 
IVo Information coi:cernin-g key f?..cility employment of su:i­
ject in new office should be furnished by that office 
to old office of origin so ·that geoo·•aphical refei·encc 
•;{ ,.. 
~; 
if,-
f, 
... -;; 
) ;'. 
' 
