.. 
_;\ 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] 
'·}.. ; 
. ' .. 
a\ \ 
8 January 1979 
MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel 
SUBJECT Annual Fitness Report - George Joannides 
Opera.t,ions Officer 
t.-S~S-16.J ESN 06481 _[J Z3 
OB 5 July 1922 
Ob7J~07t./3 
1. This Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report is prepared 
in accordance with HR 20-20, fo.r the period mid-June 1978 through 
12 January 1979. The occasion of the Fitness Report is the 
retirement of the rating·official. 
2. The undersigned was detailed in mid-May to serve 
as the Agency's Principal Coordinator for work with the House 
Select Committee on Assassinations. As it became apparent that the volume 
of the work required assignment of additional full-time personnel, the 
decision was made that one experienced officer was needed to handle 
the DDO account. A senior officer experienced in DDO wo.rk and available 
to serve for several months was requested. Mr. Joannides was known to 
the undersigned by reputation, although not personally, and arrangements 
were made for his detail to the work. While there is no way to outline 
the qualifications that one should have for this sort of work, it 
became quickly clear that Mr. Joannides was the perfect man for it. 
3. Mr. Joannides was responsible for a new procedure in 
recording of exchanges with the HSCA. As it developed, the Agency's 
logs and records on the status of requests by the HSCA and the Agency's 
responses-became the only reliable record; it was clear that the HSCA 
often did not know the status of business in this respect and time 
and time again had to come to this office for clarification. Beyond 
that early contribution to the ordering of the affairs of the office, 
Mr. Joannides handled day-to-day follow-ups of requirements by 
telephone with the DDO focal point as well as throughout the DDO. 
Further, the firm position that he took with the young investigators 
in response to aggressive harassment on some occasions was exactly 
what the situation called for. A person of his maturity and experience 
handled the job exactly as required by the situation. If the peculiar 
nature of the work did not call on Mr. Joannides.for all the talents of 
his wide experien·ce, it nonetheless was his experience and quick 
perceptions that ensured a superior performance. His advice and 
