( 
( 
( 
4, 
60 
7o 
--
PART II 
-
6D - E 
SECTION 6 .. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Do nott 
a. I'..lentify law enforcement officers by name but by ·title and ?TA affilia-
tion 
b, Show aliases of subjects of Dependents Assistance Act of 1950 
c. Show aliases of victims of WSTA cases 
d. Use complicated sentence structure 
e. Use technical references to statutes 
f. Express personal opinions 
g. Reveal identity of confidential informants 
h. Use Bureau expressions like 11the subject" and 11·the Bureau" 
i. Prepare interesting case write-ups on juveniles, sex offenders, and 
parole violators but submit these by letter 
j, Use adjectives excessively 
Transmittal 
Set forth all data necessary for Bureau's consideration 
of write-up and then follow with interesting case datao 
routing slip, Attention: External Affairs Divisiono 
Dissemination 
at the beginning 
T_ransmit by 
[Field Offices will be advised by routing slip when new write-ups are pre­
paredo If copies are desired:, an appropriate letter should be submitted 
to the Bureau~ Attention: External Affairs Division 1 setting forth the 
specific use for which the write-up is intendedo In instances where 
write-ups 1 either· those previously prepared or those to be published in the 
future, may be released outside the Bureau, it will be necessary to first 
obtain Bureau approvalo 
Interesting case control file 
A copy of all communications concerning the dissemination of write-ups 
outside the Bureau is to be placed in the Interesting Case Control fileo 
These communications .sho.uld .contain the identity of the person to whom the 
write-up is being made availables as well as the purpose for which it is to 
be used,,] 
CIRCULAR LETTERS~ TRADE A.t~D BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS 
lo- Circular. letters must be approved in advance by the Bureau and sent in hy 
the office initiating the requesto 
2. SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-
type institutions within the~r own divisions to expedite circularization 
of known serial numbers of money included in the loot taken in a bank 
robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny. On a highly selective basis, 
on approval of the SAC, leads may be set out to contiguous offices to 
circularize banking-type ins ti tu·tions in those divisions, and the Bureau 
should ~e notified that this action is being taken unless advised to 
the contrary. Communications setting out such leads must include suf­
ficient facts to enable the Bureau to properly evaluate and justify the 
additional circularization. In all other cases prior Bureau approval 
must be obtained in accordance with existing rules governing circular 
letters. In all instances the circular letter must include the following: 
a. A brief concise statement concerning the bank robbery, bank burglary, 
or bank larceny and the fact that included in the loot or money 
taken was money, the serial numbers of which are known 
b. List of knovm serial numbers aocording·to denomination, series year 
if known, alphabetical order, and numerical sequence 
o. A statement that the matter is to be treated confidentially 
d. A cautionary statement that no bank employee should take any act.ion 
which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety 
e. The address and the telephone number of the field office with a 
statement that any person should conta.o·f; the field office by calling 
collect 
3 
5-28-7<'c 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1101 
