l 
·l 
( 
'•• 
( 
( 
<'J 
[ 
[ 
' 
' 
~ 
PART II 
• 
6K - L 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC·CONTACTS 
Included in the index may be individuals in Government, business, ·or 
industry. Do not include law enforcement officers unleas· they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information.· Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alpha-· 
betically in, the sub di visions; and alphabetically· by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. ' 
Maintain the index where it is available to all.Agents. An index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely locked and ha~ing locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. S6urce· of information cards may ~e kep~ by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it'is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a locked, steel file cabinet. ·Cards shall be 
kept as in the field office. The cards shall pertain only.to the 
territory co~ered; under such circumstances there shall be no duplicate 
cards in the fiel~ office. Cards are to be deleted when obs.ol'ete., 
Index sources of information in the general office•index; do not remove 
such index cards at the. time obsolete cards are deleted· from the special 
source of information index. 
2. Files 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparation of sources 
of information. 
3. Security and racial sources of information 
Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau. requesting continuation of payments to-security and.-raciai 
sources of information. See section 107N, 3b, volume rv, of the.Manual of 
Instructions for form to be followed. If the security or-racial source of 
information i~ not being paid on· Bureau authorization and -is being used 
regularly, the Agent handling the source of information must dictate a 
memorandum to the SAG·for the file containing the .. same certification as to 
stability and reliability as required by payment 'letters. • 
4. Gifts[should not be given to sources since such actions might be 
misconstrued.] 
L. SAC CONTACTS 
1 0 SAC contacts are defined as persons w~o, because of their posit~ons, ~an 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual and highly.~, 
valuable assistance to the FBI upon the request of ·the SAC .• 
2. A complete file review must be made on each contact (file.review on: 
spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary unless-special 
circumstances prevail). _ • . . : . . 
3. SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Request this_approval 
by letter to the Bureau captione_d "-__,,,--, SAC Contact. 
11 
Mark the 
letter for the attention of the Crime Records Division. 
Use the following subheadings in the order given: 
a 0 Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known histo~y 
e. Derogatory information 
·f. Recommendation of SAC· 
Submit an original and two copies, ·but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication. If the SAC contact is 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved.and returned_ 
to the field. If the contact is not approved, a letter is to be submitted 
to the field stating why the individual cannot be used as an SAC contact. 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not pro­
posing individuals who because of business connections or personal 
7 
7-26-63 
! NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
L . 
