V 
TOP SECRET - EYES ONLY TH.E WHITE HOUSE 
WASHINGTON 
March 4, 1965 
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. BUNDY 
SUBJECT: Special Group Meeting - Cuba 
Here is some miscellaneous information with regard to your Special Group 
meeting this afternoon on Cuba. 
1. Artime Cut-off .,.. As you know, State is pressing to cut off Artime, largely 
because of his recent irresponsible activity. CIA opposes State on this one 
for the usual reasons. DOD, reportedly, will also take a somewhat reluc­
tant line on cutting off Artime. Vance may express the view that a cutoff 
will drive Artime up the wall and that he will go off and do something that 
could cause us real trouble vis-a-vis our present conflict with the East. 
For example, he might go off and sink a Soviet ship. DOD would probably 
prefer that we phase him out slowly and keep a dialogue going over the course 
of the next few months. The advantage of this would be twofold - First, it 
would keep Artime quiet; second, his residual power to hurt us, when we 
final! y do cut him off, will be reduced. 
On this one, I am inclined towards the DOD view. 
2. Pesticides - The CIA will probably propose a deal whereby we arrange 
to have diluted Cuban pesticides. State and DOD are both likely to oppose this 
one for such reasons as the following: First, it will mean going to the Dutch 
Government; it is questionable whether we want to bring up such a proposal 
with that government, especially if we think the odds are high that we will be 
turned down. Second, there is the moral issue of whether or not we should 
dilute pesticides which were given to the Cubans during the prisoner exchange. 
Third, it would be highly embarrassing if this one ever leaked out from one of 
the many bases that would have to be touched. 
I don 1t like this one either. 
3. Support to RECE - One question which will anse today is whether or not to 
start giving some low-risk support to RECE. While State and DOD, at the 
working levels, originally were in favor of it, they seem to have changed their 
position. One reason - some of the arguments which are spelled out in the 
NW 50955 Docld: 32423.')66 Page 143 
TOP SECRET EYES ONLY 
tvnrion 
Copy' 
B. Johnson Librarv 
