PERSONS KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT THE ONI FILE ON OSWALD 
For purposes. of providing background in regard. to the list of 
persons who were connected.with, ·responsible for, or knowledgeable about 
the ONI file on Oswald, it is· necessary to· understand the .structure of 
the ONI during the period starting when Oswald defected to Russia (1959), 
to the time of the assassination of President Kennedy (1963). During • 
that period of time, the ONI (Op-92) consisted primarily of three divi­
sions, the Security Division (Op-921), the Intelligence Production 
Division (Op-922), and the Administrative Division (Op-923). As explained 
in the fact sheet on the.NIS, the.Naval Investigative Service was estab~ 
lished in 1966, at which time the-personnel and basic mission of what· 
had previous.ly been known as the Investigations Branch (Op-,921D) and the 
Counterintelligence. Branch (Op:-921E) of the Security Division, ONI were 
assumed. There was no ONI file on Oswald prior to his defection to 
Russia. Because of his inactive duty/civilian status from. that time on, 
the primary investigation jurisdiction in regard to the counterintel­
ligence interest in him rested with the FBI. This is th~ reason the 
bulk of the ONI file on Oswald cons.isted of other agency.and administra­
tive documents, and newspaper clippings. The primary responsibility for 
monitoring the file within ONI was with the .Counterintelligence Branch 
(Op-921E), or, more specifically, the Programs Section (Op-921E2) of the 
Counterintel 1 igence Branch. In reviewing the file in regard to identi­
fication of individuals who originated administrative documentation for 
signature by individuals further up the chain of command, the names of 
three junior naval officers appear. This indicates that they probably 
had the period between Oswald's defection and the assassination. The 
file identifies those officers as Lieutenant Junior Grade G. M. Fredrick­
son in 1960, Lieutenant Junior Grade P. C. LeSourd in 1962, and Ensign 
J. A. Hazelton in 1963. Other individuals who, because of their positions 
within the ONI, or more particularly, their poslttons within ONI at the 
time of the assassination of President Kennedy, would have become con­
n~cted with and knowledgeable about the file are: 
o Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor, USN (Retired), the DNI (Op-92) 
at the time of the assassination; 
o Captain Robert P. Jackson, Jr., USNR (Retired), the Assistant 
DNI for Security (Op-921) at the time of.assassination; • 
o Captain Jack 0. Johnson, USN (Retired), the Executive Officer 
to Ca~tai~ Jackson at the time ~f _the ass~ssination; 
o Captain John C. Lacy, USNR (Retired), Head, Counterint~lligence 
Branch (Op-921E) in 1959;> 
o . Command~r William H. Clarkr USNR (retif~d), Head Counterintel­
Vigence Branch (Op.-921E) in· 1963; 
. APPENDIX A 
NW 3832:ti Docld:311-60796 10 
