PERSONS/ENTITIES: DATES: 
THICH TRI QUANG May 8, 1963 
NGUYEN VAN BANG (Province Chief): 
tv1AJOR DANG SY '(Asst. Province Chie ) 
OCCUHnE:1CE: ,,, ,.•,:~. According to Higgins on May 8, 1963 on th~'Buddhist birthday Thich Tri 
Quang, in the middle of a religious ceremony, began tb give a vitriolic anti-government 
speech on the subject of the non-:existent ban on Buddhist flags. About 8 pm Thich Tri 
Quang arrived at the radio station carrying in his hands a tape recording which he then 
made the demand upon the director of the station to play. He was refused.· Thich Tri 
Quang.proceeded to encourage an already active angry crowd which in the middle of this 
oration began to shout and press (forward. The director of the station called up Nguyen 
Van Bang who soon arrived and attempted to appease Thich Tri Quang, but the latter would 
not listen. Nguyen Van Bang then asked for annored cars in hopes that this would 
fighten the crowd and prevent any violence to the radio station. Major Dang Sy 
then arrived with some annored cars and got some general orders to disperse the crowd. 
Police arrived and.attempted to turn fire hoses on the crowd. (93-94) 
80\JHCL: 
1965-
Our\T[e~mi7:ri- 1ihtmare, Higgins, llarper and Rm~, ST /\FF': 
FILE: 
PER3QU;-;/EWl'I'J'IF:,S: 
Trich Tri Quang 
Diem 
DATES: 
May 8, 1963 
Dawson, R. 
DJ\~'E: July 2, 1975 
CA'l'l~GORIES: 
Diem V 
OCCURRENCE: "No evidence can be adduced showing that before the Hue incident of 
May 8, 1963, there was a religious issue in Vietnam. If there had been, assuredly 
the critics of Diem's leadership would have tru.rrpeted it to the world. Complaints of 
alleged religious repression made by 'I'hich Tri Quant and his accomplices in a campaif11 
of letters to the United Nations and pronunent foreigners, had begun, but they represented 
no more than the early activity of determined propagandists . 
. !Vbst hostile criticism toward Diem centered not on what he did but on his irethods and 
techniques of governing." 
It') 
It') 
Cl'! 
Q 
It') 
