13-00000 
SECRET - Working Paper 
[Note: Category 3 led to a long discussion on agency 
records. The focus was on how the ARRB st'aff could be 
confident that files were searched.] 
3. l explained that the Agency would not be able to say 
that all records had been located (lack of a central file 
system). Also it may not be possible to provide 
documentation that explained the disposition of 1963 records 
in all cases. I agreed that it would be usefui to have 
additional briefings on the records to addres~ their 
specific requests and concerns. I asked him not to send a 
formal request until I had the opportunity to discuss his 
request with C/HRG and the Directorate focal points. He 
agreed. 
[Note: There were numerous questions on how and where· -- do 
we have a record center in.Indiana? -- the Agency stores 
records. Do inventories of all record at the centers exist? 
Are there individuals who could address specific office 
records and what type of records existed, in 1963?] 
4. Specific Offices/Files mentioned by Gunn as part of 
Category 3: 
DCI files for the 1958-63 timeframe; specifically 
chrono or subject files of John McCone 
Richard Helms (chrono/subject files as DCI, DDCI and 
IG 
OGC 
DDP. 
DO offices (CI, SAS, Cuba, WH/LA) 
DI (OCI, other analysis and finished Intel) 
TSD files on Mexico City; where was TSO in the 
organization 
DA (what type of pay records would exist 1958-~3; 
. Anglebon's accounting records; agents' records) 
O~,....(types of records that existed) 
DS&T (U2 files) 
Specific Stations - explanation of types of records 
maintained and disposition of those records -
Mexico City, Moscow, IJ::Ielsinki), JMWave, CToky<iJ 
Commo - types of records maintained in 1963; where are 
they now 
DCD/00 
5 .. .Gunn also included CSI on his list of offices to be 
searched -- what other relevant records did we have 
(histories, working files, etc.) I explained that when 
agency components/review projects loc~ted JFK related 
records they were forwarded directly to HRG JFK team. We 
had four boxes of LA records (located in Ex Order survey), 
f .Jr 
SECRET - Working paper 
