13-00000 
....... ~. ·---.; ... 
:( ... :. •. __ • ... 
. . 
careful of here, would be to rather clearly define the type of information which 
should be transmitted, because after all, there are hundreds of thousands or 
millions of Americans going back and forth every year, and those records are 
the records of the Immigration Service, the Passport Division. 
Mr. DULLES. I was thinking of a person who having defected might, of course, 
have become an agent and then reinserted into the United States and if you 
were informed of the first steps to that you might help to prevent the second step. 
Mr: McCoNE. Well, certainly information on defectors or possible recruitments 
should be, and I have no question is being, transmitted. 
Representative FoRD. What I was getting at was whether the procedures were 
adequate or inadequate, whether the administration was proper or improper in 
this particular case, and if some files .you have that started when he attempted 
to defect are inadequate why we ought to know, and we ought to know whether 
the basie regulations were right or wrong, whether the administration was 
proper or improper, that is what I am trying to find out. 
I would like your comment on it. 
Mr. McCONE. Well, I think the basic regulations should be examined very 
carefully to be sure that they are copper-riveted down and absolutely tight. 
What I am saying, however, is because of the vast number of Americans who 
go abroad and stay in foreign countries for indefinite periods of time, it would 
be an impossible tal!lk to transmit all information available in the State De­
partment and Immigration Service as files to the Central Intelligence. Agency. 
It wogld notbe a productive exercise. What must be transmitted and is being 
transmitted, while I cannot recite· the exact regulations is information that 
is, becomes, known to the various • embassies • of suspicious Americans that 
might have been recruited and defected, and then returned so that they would 
be agents in place. 
Representative FoRD. In this case, Oswald attempted to defect, he did not, 
he subsequently ·sought t)le right to return to the United States, he had contact 
with the Embassy. Was the Central Intelligence Agency informed of these 
steps, step by step, by the.Department of State? 
Mr. McCONE. You might answer that. 
Mr. HELMS. Mr. Ford, in order to answer this question precisely I would 
have to have the file in front. of me. I have not looked at it in l!lome ti~ so 
I don't have it all that clearly in mind. But it is my impression that we were 
not informed step by step. When I say that there is no requirement that I am 
aware of that the State Department should inform us and when I said a moment 
ago that we had minimal information from them, this was not in any sense 
a critical comment but a statement of fact. 
But an 4-Inerican going to the American Embassy would be handled by the 
Embassy officials, either consular or otherwise. This would be a matter 
well within the purview of the State Department to keep all the way through, 
because we . do not have responsibility in ~the Central Intelligence· ·Agency for 
the conduct or behavior or anything else of American citizens when they are 
abroad unless there is some special consideration applying to an individual, or 
someone in higher• authority requests assistance from us. So that the State 
Department, I think, quite properly would regard this matter as well within 
their purview to handle themselves within the Embassy or from the Embassy 
back. to the Department of State without involving the Agency in it while these 
events were occurring. • 
Representative Foao. I think it could be argued, however, that the unique­
ness of this individual case was such that the Department of State might well 
havt contacted the Central Intelligence Agency to keep them abreast of the 
developments as they transpired. This is not-and when I say this, I mean the 
Oswald ease-is not an ordinary run-of-the-mill-type of case. It is far from 
it. Even back. in the time, well, from the tiine he went, and particularly as time 
progressed, and he made application to return, there ~s nothing ordinary about 1·. 
the whole situation. 
Mr. McCONE. That is quite correct; there is no question about that. 
Representative FORD. And I am only suggesting that if the regulations were 
not adequate at the time and are not now, maybe something ought to be done 
about it. ~ 
127 
