14-00000 
and left an office during thE: same quarter they might not appear 
on the staffing complement, 2, If an individual was TDY to an 
c,f f ice: they would not appear on the: sta f: :.ng complement of that 
c,f f ice. 3) If an individual was being paid by their home off ice 
they would not appear on the staffing complement of the outside 
off ice they were supporting. 
Question 3 - We have seen DO monthly operational reports 
which contain information on the allocation/distribution of 
operational funds. Are there other DO or DA records which 
reflect how a certain project utilized its funding? Can this 
type of information from the early 1960s still be retrieved? 
The DO operational fund records would contain exoenditures 
against a certain project or operation. However, according to 
C/FSD the system that preceded th~ General .21,ccounting System 
(GAS) was RCA 501 (not sure what this contained) but in all 
p::::-obability has been destroyed, would have this type of 
info:!'."'mation also. More information may have been recorded in 201 
files similar to today's automated systems. 
Question 4 - What records are kept on disbursements in the 
field? If hypothetically LHO had received money from the Agency 
what records would exist? 
According to the OFL Reco::::-ds Cor.t::::-~l Schedule station 
accouncing containing indigenous perso~~el are kept for 56 years, 
sta~ion accounting not conta:~ing indi~enous personnel are kept 
20 years. 
Personnel 
Question 1 - What records are maintained on contract 
personnel? 
Responsibility for reco=ds maintained on independent 
contract personnel was transferred to O?L o/a 1 October 1996. 
Staff contract personnel files continue to be maintained by HRM. 
Office Contract Personnel Files contain many of the same 
items found in the staff Official Personnel File (OPF)-­
application info, actions (Staff contracts only) clearance info, 
secrecy agreement, etc., and also contract info (agreements, 
amendments, terminations, etc.) A separate payroll file was also 
maintained. 
IC's - fee for task 
Staff Contracts - hired for job--not to exceed 5 years. 
Contract files can be opened/maintained/retired in true 
name, pseudo, alias or crypt depending upon the sensitivity of 
the contract. 
