I: 
~ 
J • r 
i l 
i .. 
,I 
1 
I I 
i 
• 1/ 
I" 
• l .1 
! 
4. 
s. 
·communist Party • ··s, review of field· office : ... pretext inter-views, 
surveillances, Spc . Agents a·t;tending mass meet:i.n. ei!o. 
Internal Security Ao~ of 1950 
To insure successful proceedings against a: communist front organization 
under this act, a preponderance of admissible e-vidence must be secured 
tofrshow]extent to which 
a. Persons active i~ management, direction, or supervisio~ of an 
organization are active in management, direction,. or supervision, 
or as representatives, of 
~. Its support, financial or otherwise, is derived fiom 
o. Its funds, resources, or personnel are used to further or promote 
objectives of 
d. Positions taken o~ advanced by it from time to time do not deviate 
from those of 
Any conununist-action organization, communist foreign government, or 
the wor.ld communist movement. 
Panel sources 
a. Purpose 
To develop potential witnesses who will be willing to obta"in and 
introduce .legally admissible evidence re subversive nature of 
organizations in future prosecutive action . 
b. Program • • 
{1) Since Special Agent and active security informant testimony is 
undesirable, field should recruit panel of potential witnesses 
locally. Some may be found among 1'..merican Legion contacts, 
plant informan·f;s, former and exposed security informants, etc. 
(,2) Panel members should attend public rallies and meetings, as 
well as obtain literature of organizations they are covering. 
(3) To aid panelists, exhibit photographs of i:p.di-viduals ·they 
will most likely encounter at front 0rganization functions. 
(4) Handle notes, statements, and exhibits.of panelists in same 
manner as other evidence. As panelists may subsequently 
become security informants, the same procedure should be 
followed in handling, processing, and reporting data and 
material furnished by panelists as is afforded that received 
from seouri ty informants. ( See section 107, volume IV, of this 
manual.) 
(5) Legitimate expenses incurred by panel members should be 
reimbursed in same manner as security informants. 
( 6) Eliminate inaoti ve, ineffeoti ve, or unsatis_faotory panelists 
on a continuing basis. At time of submission of seniannual 
letter, office panel should be reviewed to make certain all 
such panelists have bee~ removed. 
(7) Identities of panelists sbould be concealed. 
o. Administrative handling 
(1) Check prospective panelists through office indices, local 
police deparJGment, credit records, and established informants. 
If no undesirable information is developed, initial contact 
may be made with panelist to asoertain cooperativeness. 
( 2) Submit names of co operative panelists to Bureau by letter 
outlining complete background and recommendation as to inclusion 
in offiO"e· panel. [One of the required copies o·f tp.e letter to 
the Bureau should consist only of the first page of the letter. 
When approving the field I s recom.rnenda ti on, this single-page 
copy will be stamped "Approved" by Bureau and will be returned,) 
Be certain such individuals are not plants and will consider 
• _relationship with .Bureau in oonfiden9e . 
87 
3-16-60 
~· ___ __, .......... --
~.-~ 
.NW 38321 Docld:l2989529 Page 890 .,_ 
