13-00000 
f • 
SECRET 
• Use of non-official cover is expanding rapidly in response to changes in CIA targets 
following the collapse of the USSR. 
• The use by CIA of non-official cover and the details of how it is employed are less • 
well known than our use of official cover.· 
• Some of our most uniquely valuable human intelligence comes from this method. 
• Non-official cover affords its user no diplomatic immunity. Since some ofCIA's most 
hostile targets necessitate the use of non-official cover, our officers and assets working 
• against these targets run the risk of being arrested; imprisoned, or worse. 
4. (S) The likelihood of damage from disclosure of specific information on alias 
documentation and accommodation addresses runs the gamut from "certain" to • 
''unpredictable." Based on past evidence, public release of references to.the forged 
Mexican and Panamanian passports would be virtually certain to draw a reaction from 
those governments that would harm US diplomatic relations and deny CIA its use of a 
currently valuable tool. The probability of litigation from disclosure of business 
documents is also quite high. 
• The damage from release of25--30 year-old addresses and specifics on seemingly 
innocuous pocket litter is less predictable. Nonetheless, it has broad implications for 
• both the current use of non-official cover and for the safety of individuals associated 
with these methods in the past; and therefore CIA can not afford io ignore it. To 
manage the risk, if denied the option of postponing the release, would require an 
extremely time consuming review of each piece of information on a case-by-case basis. 
5 . . (U) None of the information being considered for release adds significantly to 
the historical record on the Kennedy assassination. The minimal added value from its 
release is small in comparison to the damage, both certain and potential, that would result. 
Since the cost-benefit ratio is so skewed, we recommend that. release of specific 
information on alias documentation and accommodation addresses be postponed and that 
generic substitute language be used in its place. 
II. (U) Discussion of Potential Damage 
6. (C) Disclosure of information relating to the five categories discussed in 
paragraph 2 above can reasonably be expected to cause the following types of damage: 
a) Damage to diplomatic relations with Mexico and Panama; 
b) Litigation from private sector firms; 
c) Potential damage to a growing intelligence collection method; 
SECRET 
2 
