.. 
·' 
Domestic Intelligence ·Divj.sion , 
that whichever means is used must be.practical and not merely drawn up .. in 
a vi~ionary manner in an attempt to satisfy the Supreme Court but end up 
by placing the investigative agencies in -an ~untenable position because they 
cannot comply with the spirit of the Order. • 
.. · • . • ' ' ' . 
(2) . Port Security Program - There has been no change in the Port Security 
Program with the exception that Treasury Department has drafted proposed· • 
legislation to enable the Coast Guard to subpoena and pay the travel expenses of 
·witnesses to appear at Coast Guard hearings. . .1reasury has indicated this 
bill is in the Bureau of the Budget. At the March 12, 1959, conference the _ • 
Director pointed out that positive action should be taken toward getting such 
• legislation and the confrontation issue should not be used as an excuse to scrap 
• the program because the FBI had supplied a substantial number of witnesses 
who could appear and testify. The Bureau's position should be the same; 
namely, that the.wherewithal should be devised to carry forth the program instead 
of scrapping it. It should be borne in mind that in ,-Port Security hearings as 
-in many other security-type hearings the question of confrontation will continue • 
to be an issue and the pattern set by the Executive Order in the Industrial 
Security Program will probably be applied to the other types of security hearings. 
. . 
(3) ·Air Crewmen Screening Program - The Air Crewmen Screening 
Program is a program proposed by ICIS to screen crews of United States planes 
engaged in international flights and to screen all holders of Airmen's Certificates. 
The ICIS also proposed the Federal Communications Commission Radio Screening 
Program which would require the screening of all operators of radio transmitters. 
To our knowledge, nothing has been done on either of these programs since the 
March, 1959, conference with the Attorney General. While the FBI orig:1;naJ.ly 
concurred that these programs woµld be helpful, we have not pushed them, 
believing this is a proper function of ICISo · It is believed the Bureau's position-
·. should be that a decision should be reached as. to whether these programs should 
• be implemented and they should not be allowed to han~ fire on the basis that 
they might not be agreeable or acceptable to the Supreme Court. In other words, 
• security· programs should not be left in a status of hiatus because of pending 
judicial decisionso -
(4) Persqnnel Security Program - . The March, 19 59 conference discussed 
the Personnel Security Program, particularly whether there should be legislation 
to provide for an over-all security program 'Yhich would cover both .sensitive 
NW 3 
Page .135 
-8-
