• i t 
I 
I 
I . 
I 
, I 
' 
NW 
and therefore should be punished rather than him. The Judge 
rejected her appeal and her son's trial is scheduled for March, 
1969. 
Criminal Intelligence and Organized Crime While our 
o:rganized crime investigations are aimed at key members in the 
power structure, they have also struck hard in the lower echelons 
• with progressively greater penetration into the heart of hoodlum 
activities - gambling operations. Fiscal year 1968 capped four 
consecutive record years in convictions of organized crime figures 
with 281. There are now 789 other hoodlum figures awaiting trial 
in Federal court thus indicating a continuance of the upward trend 
in convictions in fiscal year 1969. Recent major accomplishments 
in the organized crime field include the arrest or conviction a.f 
many top La Cosa Nostra leaders across the country. Our dissem­
ination of criminal intelligence data to other Federal and local law 
enforcement agencies has broken the million mark in number of 
items in the past five years. This shared FBI data enabled other 
law enforcement agencies to conduct hundreds of raids, execute 
thousands of arrests, and recover millions of dollars in gambling 
funds or stolen property each year G Departmenf Task Force. 
Operations {also called Strike Force) have been formed in Detroit, 
Michigan; Brooklyn, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; 
Chicago, I~linois; Miami, Florida; and Newark, New Jersey; since 
the original group at Buffalo, New York. We now maintain liaison 
with these Task Force groups and it has been recommended that 
we expand our liaison arrangements with Task Force. There have 
been La Cosa Nostra leadership clRnges in New York and Chicago. 
Department's Manual for use of Electronic Surveillance Under Title 
m of Omnibus Crin1e Control Bill Attorney General has been fur-
nished our views regarding ·Department's draft manual for use of 
electrical surveillance p~rsuant to Title III of Omnibus Crime Control 
Bill, the general provisions of which cone ern administrative regulations 
not seecifically required by the statute itself. The manual's requirements 
. would impose tremendous administrative and procedural restrictions 
on tke FBI and other Federal agencies to the point that strict compliance 
might be self-defeating to the goal of n1aintaining discreet electronic 
f 
r .• 
,. ·. _.; 
