' I, 
107I - K 
2. 
SECTIO:r • . SECURITY nrtORM.ANTS _A}ll) C01-.DENTIAL SOURCES 
Conununications - use. of symbols 
a • .After Bureau is advised of the permanent symbol, in subsequent 
communications true name of infc.,rmant sh•ould not be set forth; use 
symbol number. 
b, In all communications after the initial J.etter, Bureau and f:i.eld 
office file numbers for informant must .. be set forth, 
c. In communications between offices, the same procedure is to be 
followed. 
d. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division_on 
temporary basis for Bureau business or for personal reasons 
should be referred to in initial letter to in~erest~d office 
by true name and symbol m:unber if it is necessary f"or the other 
division to know the identity of the informant. Office receiving 
such letter should make appropriate index cards and place same 
in "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" index, Subsequent 
letters between interested offices may then identify individual 
by symbol number only. 
( 2) Individuals who leave the division where they have been· furnishing 
information and do not plan to return should be immediately 
discontinued, thei_r symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name should be used in all administrative 
correspondence. 
(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and remains 
active, his identity must still be protected, 
e. In communications, the teletype abbreviation for the field office, 
symbol 9 and letter suffix "S" shall be shown to identify the informant; 
e.g.; 11NY 000-S. 11 
f, In communications concerning a potential security informant, the 
name of the potential security informant and abbreviation 11PSI 11 
shall be used; e.g., "John Doe, PSI," 
g. Similarly, in cornmunica·tions relative ·l;o confidential sources, the 
abbre~iation "CS" should be used; e.g., "Richard Roe; CS. 11 
h, When symbol numbers are assigned to potential security informants, 
the designation should be as follows: "LA 000-PSI. 11 
·i. In communications relative to a confidential source having a permanent 
symboi number,· the following should be used: "CS LA 000-S." 
j. In espionage and foreign nationality matters the caption of the 
communication should show in addition a character and the country 
designation (i.e., IS - R for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc,). 
This facilitates ro~tlng the ma~~ at ~he Bureau. 
J •• +NDEXING 
i. True names and aliases of all info:i:·niants, as"we11 • as the 'co-ver name 
[ assigned to them for informants' use in submitting their statements, 
but not their permanent Bureau symbol numbers, shall be indexed in 
the general office indices in the same manner as any other name. 
2, These index cards should show the file number of the informant and 
such terms as 11Informant" or "Potential Security Informant" shall not 
appear. 
INDICES 
1, Alphabetical n_ame index and symbol nu.rnber • index 
a.. Alphabetical name index 
(1) In all offices ail active;potential security.and security 
informant cards are to be kept by the SAC, ASAC, or security 
supervisor consistent with maximum security and best admin­
istrative practice, This is to be known as the alphabetical 
name index. 
(2) File these cards in alphabetical order and also include cards 
for security· confidential sources. These cards should show 
whether the individual is a potential informant, an informant, 
or a confidential source furnishing information on security 
matters. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1566 
14 
5-12-61 
.. 
( 
