SEC~ET - 7 -
During this period ?2.pich developed a good relationship with Jim Angleton 
of Counterintelligence and found that he could work effectively wi t:h Angleton. 
IF, the early 1960 1 s the relationship between the two agencies was probably 
the best that it ever got. While some flaps continued to occur, both 
agencies see;;ied to be making an effort to learn the responsibilities and 
jurisdiction of the other. 
Relationships Bet'.,·een 1965 and 1970 
During the Johnson Administration there \-:as a deterioration or a cut in 
the number of projects directed towar~s the Soviets. Hoover's desire to 
become engaged in extensive counterintelligence work lessened. Many of 
the FBI's programs to identify illegal aliens attempting to penetrate 
the U. S. c;overn.11ent broke down. Hoover became extremely .cautious and 
conservative in the area of counterintelligence, which greatly disturbed 
Papich, who felt strongly about the Soviet threat and who was convinced 
that strong cormter-m 
During 1967 and early 1968 Papich saw no signs from Hoover that the o­
grams and projects that Papich felt so necessary would be reinstituted. 
Papich was receiving the message that his relationship with Hoover was 
coming to an end .. Papich was physically and mentally worn out trying to 
keep the two agencies working together. In 1968 Papich wrote a polite 
letter to Hoover expressing his concern with what was happening in the 
area of counterintelligence. He appealed to Hoover to reinitiate some 
of the effective programs aimed at Soviet penetration of the United States. 
While Hoover was extremely angry at Papich for writing such a letter, he 
did not fire him to the surprise of many.· Further appeals by Papich to 
Hoover to reinstate programs were of no avail. From that point on» the 
relationship between Papich and Hoover chilled and any idea that Papich 
brought to Hoover from the CIA concerning joint counterintelligence efforts 
was 2enerally rejected. and accomoanied by a critical remark. 
\~nile Papich's 1968 letter had brought no change in Hoover's attitude, 
Hoover did keep Papich on as liaison. In the Fall of ]9 69 Papich con­
fided to his wife that he was seriously considering retiring in the Spring 
of 19 70. By the first of the year he realized that his career was effec­
tively at an end and that he could no longer effectively accomplish his 
responsibilities as liaison between FBI and CIA. He decided to submit his 
letter of resignation, to be effective in early April of 1970. 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32203861 Page 2 
