13-00000 
- 4 -
later since it takes more time to acquire these from somewhat 
sensitive sources. 
7. The President then went on to say that people seem to 
have the impression he was going to sit back and try to keep things 
on an even keel so as not to disturb the upcoming election. He 
said that this was a wrong impression for people to have and that 
he intended to do everything he possibly could to ensure maintaining 
and augmenting the great forward momentum that President Kennedy 
had been developing toward world peace an:d proper domestic 
policies. He said that this was a time for real action and that the 
United States must get itself out of this trend of thought that it sits 
back and reacts to others' actions rather than creates actions of 
its own. He is tired of.reacting -- he wants to act and let others 
react to him and this is one of the things he intends to think about 
during upcoming months. He therefore urges the most imaginative 
thinking possible both in and out of Government to see how best his 
• ends can be attained. He pointed out that this was not going to be 
easy .because this was an election year and lots of people would be 
looking for ways to attack him and his policies. He said, however, 
that he could not sit by and watch this opportunity for promoting 
peace and understanding among nations to dissipate simply because 
it was an election year in which he would be politically involved. 
8. The President then said that he had been totally dis­
satisfied with what the State Deparbnent had proposed he send to 
Khrushchev and he had therefore sat down at the desk (pointing) and 
had in his own handwriting composed the _New Year's message to 
Khrushchev. He intended to continue to promote every possibility 
for a basis of understanding looking toward peace and again reiterated 
that any agreement would never be at the expense of our own security. 
9. He then asked me for a briefing of any current situations 
that he should be brought up to date on. I brought him up to date on 
Cyprus, on Cuba, and on South Vietnam since he had indicated that 
he had read recent Checklists. 
