. • 
J • 
SPECIAL INQUIRY INVESTIGATIONS FOR THE WHITE HOUSE 
Conscientious securiti officers in various 
governmental agencies, many of whom are former Special 
Agents of the Bureau, have been shocked at the lack of 
knowledge or the total disregard of the provisions of the 
Federal Employee .. Security Program by the eight or nine 
individuals at the White House responsible for filling 
top-level positions in the new Administration. This. 
first came to our attention shortly.after November 6, 
1968, when Franklin Benjamin Lincoln, Jr., and . 
William Rittenhouse Harman moved· into the Pentagon 
as the vanguard of the transition team. .. They had no 
clearance for highly classified information and when 
no request was forthcoming for a· full field investiga­
tion of these persons, the secu:r;ity·officer at the 
Pentagon requested the investigation.· 
This matter came to a head on February 10, 1969, 
when the Secretary of Commerce· was told by the White House 
to write a letter certifying that prospective Assistant 
Secretaries were cleared politically and from a security 
.·standpoint. When the Department of Commerce was told we 
had received no request for a-full field investigation, 
that Department was informed by.the White House the FBI 
had done a n24-hour check." The Department of Commerce 
would not accept this since the Federal Employee· Security 
. Program requires that no critical sensitive jobs should be 
filled unless a full field investigation is first conducted. 
Most of the requests fo~ investigations received 
thus far from the White House are in connection with persons 
who have been publicly announced and are already firmly 
established in their jobs. As a result, instead of dis­
continuing investigation upon the development of derogatory 
data the White House requests the investigation be continued 
and at the present time we know of only one person the 
Administration has discharged. This was a stenographer 
in Mr. Ehrlichman' s office by the name of Helen Galanoplos·, 
who. had two brothers and a s_ister-in-law who were members 
of the Communist Party.· 
In co1~nection with White House investigations Don Virdin 
of Internal Revenue Service (IRS} called the Bureau on February 13, 
1969. Virdin stated that IRS had checked their tiles in connection with 
NW 3 ............... 'UI 
19. 
Page 221 
