13-00000 
t/It\Z;\!?F\';;;z;~.::~-:)}:l;~r~~'.-~{if~{~tt~~}\\~:t;:~t;t:~t/ft,~f~7$}1?/:?~~~{i~l{ 
FINAi.'REPORT OF THEAssAssiNATION RECOR.Os 
to the public may be postponed subject to the 
limitations of this Act if [agencies provide] 
clear and convincing evidence that [the· 
harm from disclosure outweighs the public 
interest in release.] 
a. Review Board guidelines. For each recom­
mended postponement, the JFK Act requires 
an agency to submit "clear and convincing 
evidence" that one of the specified grounds 
for postponement exists.25 The Review Board 
required agencies to submit specific facts in 
support of each postponement, according to 
tp.e Review Board's guidelines for each post­
ponement type. 
b. Commentary. Although the agencies 
argued that the clear and convincing evi­
dence standard could be 
satisfied · by a general 
explanation of those 
agencies' positions in 
support of postpone­
ments, the Review Board 
determined that the clear 
and convincing evidence 
requirement was a docu­
ment-specific one. Thus, 
_the Board required agen­
cies to present evidence 
that was tailored to indi­
vidual postponements 
within individual docu­
ments. 
The JFK Act clearly 
required agencies to pro- . 
vide clear and convinc­
ing evidence in support 
of their postponements, 
but it did not establish a 
mechanism for when and 
how such evidence should be presented. The 
legislative history provides a clue as to Con­
gress' intent: "[T]o the extent possible, con­
sultation with the government offices creates 
an understanding on each side as to the basis 
and reasons for their respective recommen­
dations and determinations." 26 The Review 
Board did consult with government offices to 
determine fair, efficient, and reasonable pro­
cedures for presenting evidence. 
The Review Board began its review of assas­
sination records by considering pre- assassi­
nation records on Lee Harvey Oswald. In an 
attempt to arrive at consistent decisions, the 
Board asked the staff to present the records 
on an issue-by-issue basis. For example, with 
FBI records, the Review Board first sched­
uled a group of FBI records for review and 
notified the FBI of the meeting date at which 
it intended to vote on the records. The 
Review Board invited the FBI to present its 
evidence. Second, the FBI requested that it be 
allowed to brief the members of the Review 
Board. At the briefing, the FBI presented its 
position to the Board-both in an oral pre­
sentation and in a "position paper." The FBI's 
"position papers" summarized the FBI's gen­
eral policy preferences for continued classifi­
cation of certain categories of information. 
Third, the Review Board staff researched 
existing law on each of the FBI's "positions" 
and determined that the arguments that the 
FBI put forth in support of its JFK Act post..: 
ponements were essentially the same argu­
ments that the FBI offers to courts for FOIA 
cases. Of course, in legislating the declassifi­
cation standards of the JFK Act, Congress 
intended for the JFK Act standards-and not 
the FOIA standards-to apply. Aware of con­
gressional intent, the Review Board rejected 
the FBI' s general policy preferences on the 
basis that the arguments did not constitute 
the clear and convincing evidence necessary 
to support a request for a postponement • 
under section 6. The FBI did appeal the 
Review Board's decisions to the President, 
but the Review Board's document-specific 
interpretation of the clear and convincing 
evidence standard ultimately prevailed 
when the vote was withdrawn. 
i. "Rule of Reason." Of course, -some assassi­
nation records are of greater interest than 
others. With regard to records that had a 
close nexus to the assassination, the Review 
Board strictly applied the law. For example, 
the Review Board voted to release in full 
nearly all of the information in the FBI's pre­
assassination Lee Harvey Oswald file and the 
bulk of the information in the HSCA' s report 
on CIA activities in Mexico City-the 
"Lopez" report-because of the high public 
interest in that material. With regard to the 
FBI files, the FBI believed that its arguments 
were compelling enough to merit appeals to 
the President on nearly all of the Review 
Board's decisions on the pre-assassination 
Lee Harvey Oswald records. The FBI, the 
Review Board, the White House Counsel's 
.. ,, 
