( 
-PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
PART II 6C - D 
C. SPEECHES 
1. The speech program is the personal responsibility of the SAC, and the 
SAC or ASAC should handle principal commitments. If neither available 
these can be handled by an experienced and well-informed Agent ' 
approved for the commitment by the SAC or ASAC. Good judgment .should 
dictate when a manuscript should be submitted to FBIHQ for approval in 
advance of a speaking engagement, particularly in regard to radio and 
television appearances. 
2o It is not necessary to advise FBIHQ of each speaking engagemento Each 
office will maintain for a minimum of one year and one regular office. 
inspection a control file in connection witl:l acceptances and declinations 
of speech·invitationso £ach year on January 10th and on July 10th. 
each office will submit to FBIHQ a statistical report of speaking 
commitments handledo This will be divided into engagements by the SAC, 
the-ASAC, and other Agent Supervisors; and will. be ·further subdivided· 
into speeches as well as radio, television, and Career Day appearances 
by these three groupso • • 
3. Each office should maintain a speech material file for the use of speakerso 
This should include Law Enforcement Bulletin items, interesting case 
material, magazine articles, research literature, newspaper clippings 
pertaining·to law enforcement matters of interest, and items of value in 
-connection with public appearances of Bureau representatives.. In addition 
to being maintained in current status, this ~peech material should be 
indexed as to subject matter in the office fileso 
D. INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1 .. Write-ups of interesting cases may be: 
a. Requested by the Bureau 
bo Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
Co Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared concerning cases of: 
a. Major importance 
b. Public interest 
Co Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
do Novel investigations of human interest 
3 .. They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
bo Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
do Accurately 
e. After a review of the.entire file 
fo In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g .. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
2a 
2-27-74 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1090 
