• • 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: Legal Advice for Present or Former Bureau Employees 
Division of the Department, the Civil Rights Division of the Department, 
or other Federal Government entities including Federal Grand Juries. 
Further, :state and local prosecutors and grand juries may seek to inquire· 
concerning matters within their jurisdiction arising out of the employee's 
Federal activities and the employee would require the assistance· of counsel. 
Therefore, I asked Miss Wagner to include in the guidelines a provision 
that legal counsel would be available through the Department for employees 
in all circumstances where the employee is being questioned concerning 
matters arising out of his employment in the FBI. 
I told :Miss Wagner tlm,t the concluding paragraph in the Attorney 
General's memorandum for the Director indicated the possibility that a 
determination would be made in some cases that the employee's activities 
were beyond the scope of his duties and in such cases legal counsel would 
not be provided. I told her that such a determination would be· critical 
and the policy followed in making such decisions would color the entire 
program of providing legal assistance to employees. Therefore, I 
requested JVliss Wagner to address the question of scope of duties in the 
guidelines by expressing a presumption that the employee's activities . 
were within the scope of bis duties and that such presumption would be 
overcome only by a showing of facts clearly indicating to the contrary, 
and that such determination would be made at least by the Deputy Att01:ney 
General himself. 
I told Miss Wagr1er that this matter wa:s most urgent and that the 
Special Agents o-1: the FBI throughout the field are anxiously awaiting the 
announcement of the Attorney General's policy in regard to availabiliiy 
of legal advice to e111ployeee concerning matters arising out of their 
employment. She ad-11is ed me that wm. k would begin immediately and that 
she would be in touch ·with me concerning its progress, and to discuss 
the gu:delines as they are developed. 
RECOM:M:ENDA TION: 
For info.crna-lion of the Director in response to his request. (}¥✓ 
0 / 
~
(? (>, 
~ 
I ; ft I,"\ 
1'f'k& C'.\/:f}tG 
1/l a ,• - 4 - ,,,., 
NW 38326 Docld:32989653 25 
