. [ 
107Tl - C 
11. 
SECTION 1- SI!GU:aTY DH'0Ri1ANTS ;\}ill co:mr·-;1-TTH.L SOURCES 
Investigation of communist pe~~ition signers who are acquainted with 
Communist P2,rty functionaries 
Be alert to receiv~ any suggestions of plant exAoutives and highly placed 
personnel who a:c•c reli1".ble and friendly to the Bureau concerning members 
of subversive organizations who m:igl:t nooperate with the.Bureau or employ­
ees who might be willing to infiltrate a subversive orga~ization. In the 
pas·b such contacts have on occasion r0st,J:tcd in the plant's making avail­
able the services of i>,n employee who alr0aciy is an informant of the manage­
mert. 
Pe:':":·onnel cirectors in plants frequently are able to advise of members of 
conu,rnnist-dominated 1.udons who retain their membership merely to hold. 
their po:; .ttions. 
12. With regi,.,d ·i;o both 10 aud 11 above, if possibl(;;, the 0fficial should 
suggest to the potential informant that he conta1.:t the Bureau. rather 
than have an Agent origi~ate the contact, 
13. After the Bureau has no"cified the armed forces of a oormm:mj st in.an indus­
trial plan·!; ha:ving armed forces contracts, the communist freq_nently recan·l;s 
when he is informed of the charges and is facing the possibility of dis­
missa,l or transfer to a nonrest:d.cteo. position in the sa,me plar1t. A:!:. 
su.ch a time, officers friendly to the Bureau somet.tmes suggest that 
the person advise thH Bureau of his past activities .. Be alert to take 
advantage of such cooperation when offered. 
14. Review of Communist Pa,rty registration records to ascertain what individ­
uals merely registered but never became active 
15. Use of a reliable third party to make the contact with a pos s:1.-ble inform­
ant whe_n direct con·tac·I; by &' ·.gent is inadvisable. Request Bureau to 
furnish the services of an ::. • • ·lvidual who is available for such a contact. 
16. Offic:tals and employees of :,: ::ign establishments in ·i;he U. s. 
17. Employees of the United Natiuns Secretariat • • 
18. Contacts (business, socialj or otherwise) of foreign officials stationed 
in the u. S, 
19. Ind; vi duals who beca,use of backgrounds employment, or social status are 
in a position of intellfgenee interest to a foreign principal and who· 
will undertake intelligence assignments under the guidance of the 
Bureau. (See deseco program, section 105K,6h 9 volume IT~ of this manual.} 
C. Il\TVESTIGATIOlf OJ!, POTElfTIAL SECURITY INFORMANTS 
When a decision made to consider a pa,rticular individual for inform~mt pur­
poses, background inves tiga,tion must be conducted. This should consist of 
the following: 
1. Check of field office files for derogatory information, particularly 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6 •. 
7. 
of a subversive nature . 
Discreet canvass of[logioal]informants to ascertain if the potential 
informant is known to current informants .of your office 
I.ng_uiries of discreet nature to obtain information concerning the individ­
ual's personal history (date and place of birth, etc,), patriotism, health, 
reliability, stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past 
employments, and business connections. ·Background investigation must 
definitely establish that the potential informant can be utilized witho~t 
any danger of future embarras smont due to ins ·!;ability- or· unr.eliabili ty, 
Securing background information from the potentia.1 informant is not 
suffjcient; tho bac~ground of the ihdi~idual nmst be established by the 
investigation. . • 
Check of local credit and arrest records. Obtain necessary data f,pr 
the compleJvion of a.n J!'D-9 form which should be transmitted ·!;o the Identi­
fication Divisi0n to obtain the record, if any, of the informant. 
Armed ser-vioes record should be reviewed. if the individual is a veteran. 
Check draft status or status in the armed forces reserve. 
Domestic status and if any marital difficulties all details should be 
obtained. 
4 
5-12-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1593 
