13-00000 
.• • 
• tieitri'rtt:I M p'r" ·wj I i ., ., r "isitf:'_;, }'eH +te t i -d w , em a±«tctt:n:tiWebit 
SECRET 
HR 20-55 PERSONNEL 
re, RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES 
(1) The Deputy Director for Operations is authorized to 
(a) formulate procedures for the engagement and management of agents 
and to issue operating directives and special instructions, as necessary, 
to control the use of agents by headquarters and field units; 
(b) execute, amend, renew, and terminate Formal Agreements and Memo­
randums of Oral Commitment with agents; and to review Formal 
Agreements and Memorandums of Oral Commitµient executed in the 
field; 
(c) suspend procedures implied in this regulation upon his personal deter­
mination that operational and security aspects of an agent's manage­
ment are so sensitive as to require processing through special channels. 
(2) The Director of Personnel is authorized to 
(a) approve, after coordinating with affected Agency components, the 
commitment to an agent that he will receive special benefits; • 
. (b) approve the commitment to an agent that he will be offered appointed 
status at the conclusion of his service; when such commitment has 
been recommended by the Deputy Director for Operations or his des­
ignee, with the concurrence of the Director of Security; 
(c) execute, amend,. renew, and terminate Forma_l Agreements and Memo­
randums of Oral Commitment when requested to do so by the appro., 
priate Operations Directorate approving officer. This authority may also 
be exercised by the Deputy Director of Personnel and the Special Con­
tracting Officer; Office of Personnel. 
(3) All Formal· Agreements and Memorandums of Oral Commitment written 
under the authority of this paragraph will be subject to legal revie_w by 
L. the General Counsel under such conditions as he may prescribe. 
55. PROCUREMENT CONTRACTS FOR THE SERVICES OF 
INDIVIDUALS 
a. POLICY, Procurement contracts whose basic purpose is to obtain the services 
of one or more_ individuals, negotiated with profit and nonprofit· institutions, 
associations, partnerships, proprietorships, and other organizations, are per­
mitted only when the particular services sought cannot be obtained 1n any 
other practicable way. 
b. PROCEDURES 
(1) Except as provided in subparagraph b(3) below, all proposals for such 
procurement contracts and their renewal must be justified in writing by•· 
the component seeking the services and be submitted to the Director of· 
Personnel for his approval before commitments are made or negotiations 
started. These proposals will describe in some detail the services to be ren­
dered, the qualifications required, the proposed duration of the task, and 
the reason or reasons why a procurement contract is judged to __ be the 
best method of acquiring the needed services. 
• 130 ~Revised: 23 February 1973 (733) 
.SECRET 
.·.·~. 
I / 
_,,.-;Jttitt±ttitt rrttt±r:&: 
PERSONNEL 
• (2) The Directc1 
personnel a 
examine th 
sonnel. If t 
rector of P1] 
Office· of Le! 
tract reque,i 
~ :i:~i 
(3) The approvi 
(a) for pro! 
dental·; 
reports, 
task PE 
time <i: 
(b) for pr01 
require, 
testlng,,i 
follow-11 
tion-n! 
above. 
c. RESTRICTION!i 
(1) Operating < 
through th1i 
erly briefed: 
Agency infcl 
Operating Ci 
the relatior 
affects the 
curity clear 
(2) Technical 1 
•· procuremen 
· employer-et 
organizat101, 
istrative au: 
. the Agency: 
cies, prtvau: 
56-59. Reserved. : 
Revised:· 23 Februl) 
