6G 
2. 
NW 38321 
P.ART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, check circulars, and apprehension 
o-::-ders 
Each field office must mai.ntain a Jllailing list composed of individuals 
and organizations to which ide-ntification orders, wanted flyers, check 
circulars, and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each field office must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see that no data is sent to 
firms which have ceased business or have merged with other organizations. 
A survey should be conducted by Agents eac~ year by every office, at the 
time the field office mailing list is purged, to determine whether addi­
tional names of individuals and businesses should be added to the fie-ld 
office mailing list. 
a. Addressograph plates are to be prepared at the Bureau upon receipt of 
field request, (The Bureau will prepare, on its own initiative, 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent~ 
b, Decide what organizations, individuals, or concerns are to appear on 
c. 
d, 
e. 
the list. . 
(1) The quality of the assistance the addressee is in a position to 
give 
(2) The cooperation which has been afforded 
(3) The following must appear on the list: 
Alcohol, Tobacco[and Firearms] Missions Providing Lodging 
Division Post Office Inspectors 
Bureau of Customs· Postmasters 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus Salvation Army 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Secret Service 
ment Officers U. s: Marshals 
FBINA Graduates 
Hotels 
Immigration and Naturaliza­
tion Service 
(4) The following may appear on the list: 
Automobile Clubs 
Banks 
Car Rental Agencies 
County Attorneys 
County Coroners 
Credit Companies 
Detective Agencies 
Enlistment Officers, U. S. Air 
Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps 
Employment Service 
Fire Departments 
Forest Service 
Gunsmiths 
Insurance Companies 
Movie Studios 
Navy Shore Patrol 
Oil Company Special Agents 
Parole and Probation Officers 
Plant Quarantine Officers 
Protective Associations 
Race Tracks • 
Savings and Loan Associations 
Service Recruiting Officers 
State Employment Offices 
State Hospitals for Insane 
Steamship Companies 
Telegraph Companies 
U. s. Attorneys 
U. S. Commissioners 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. 
Shouln a compelling reason exist for distribution of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval for 
such distribution. 
Give consi4eration to the desirability of circularizing motels. 
Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has responsibility for instructing other offices to initia-te distribu- .. 
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
1013 
4 
4-25-69 
1 
C 
( 
( 
