13-00000 
c, 
.. • 
~~\ 
V 
0 
0 
0 
• r 
D00 INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
..... 
SECRET i 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
(b) If the individual is a former member of ACTION, or a ·former 
trainee whose . ACTION service • included -duty or training over­
seas, five years must have elapsed since his separation from 
ACTION. 
If contact with a former ACTION member or a former trainee whose 
ACTION service included duty or training overseas should . be un­
avoidable during the required five year waiting period, the Deputy 
Director for Operations may request an exception from the Director 
of Central Intelligence. Among the possible reasons for such_ unavoid­
able contact would be the designation of a former member or trainee 
as the liaison officer to the Domestic Collection Division. 
b. Fulbright Grantees 
DDO policy prohibits the operational use of individuals who are receiving 
• U.S. Government support under certain provisions (see below) of the 
Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as_ amended, 
commonly known as the Fulbright-Hays Act. Falling under this prohibi­
tion are teachers,. research scholars, lecturers and students ( including stu­
dent artists and student musicians) who _ have been selected to receive 
scholarships or grants by the Board of Foreign Scholarshlps appointed 
by the President of the United States. Operational use of such individuals 
is prohibited only during the period when they are participating in the_ 
educational. and cultural exchange program. This prohibition specifically 
does not apply to the several other categories _of grantees supported by 
other provisions of the Fulbright-Hays Act such as artists, athletes, leaders, 
specialists or -participants at international trade fairs or expositions who 
do not come under the aegis of the President's Board of Foreign Scholar-
--ships ( see 7.j., below). 
c. Officials or Employees of the International Association for Cultural Freednm 
• DOO policy prohibits the operational use of the officials or employees 
of the International Association for Cultural Freedom. Contacts with such 
individuals which DDO officers are obliged to make in their cover ca­
pacities must be limited to their cover assignments. 
d. Officials, Employees, cir Grantees of the Ford, Rockefeller and Carnegie 
Foundations 
DDO policy prohibits the operational use of grantees_ of the Ford Founda­
tion, the Rockefeller Foundation or the Carnegi~, Foundation or _ of o~er 
persons activ:ely parti~!lting in pr~~ams which are wholly spons~~~d 
and .controlled by any of these foundations. Additionally, there will be 
_ no operational use made of the officials or employees of these organiza­
tions. In general, however, there is no restriction on nonoperational con-
tacts or consultations with such individuals. • 
5 
SECRET 
