C 
-c, 
reportedly continues, the threat of retaliatory action from forces 
rallying around deposed Air Force Chief Lemus has apparently 
diminished, and the majority of the armed forces still supports 
President YdiEoras. The President's intention with regard to 
leftist ex-Pr~sident Arevalo, who plans to return and seek the 
presidency in next December's elections, is an unsettling factor. 
The armed forces universally oppose Arevalo. Some factions want 
to replace Ydigoras with a civilian-military junta and call new 
elections before Arevalo becomes eligible to run in March. Should 
Arevalo return, the ~ilitary will probably move to prevent his 
candidacy and the coming months may be critical. 
Honduran Presiden~ Villeda Morales, although not a strong 
leader, is expected to complete his term. The ruling Liberal 
Party will probably retain the Presidency in the October elections, 
and maneuvering for the nomination has beg~n. Rodas Alvarado, 
President of the Congress and one of the three leading contenders, 
has used his position to build up strerigth, but the armed forces 
regard him as the least desirable and a developing anti-Rodas 
coalition may ptevent his nomination. Either of the three leading 
candida~es would probably follow the present government's policies, 
including -its relativ~ly soft Communist stand. The Communists, 
while not yet a direct threat, are steadily increasing their 
influence in the labor field and are exploiting the country's 
discouraging political, economic, and social conditions. 
El Salvador, faced with a serious Communist threat about 
two years ago, continues to show political and economic progress, 
but there are clouds on the horizon. President Rivera, who 
assumed control last summer in a full return to constitutional 
government, still has widespread support and military backing. 
The government is movipg ahead with its reform program, but 
there is some resistance to the proposed new income taxes. 
,Communist activities have been curbed, but the Communists still 
retain a subversive capability particularly among labor and 
student groups. There is concern over the likely election of a 
pro-Communist as rector of the university, a center of sub­
version ahd intrigue. 
Costa Rioa continues to be one of the most democratic and 
politically stable countries in Latin America but there are 
reverberations c-f unrest stemming from the deteriorating economic 
situation. The ruling National Liberation Party, which was 
returned to power in last year's election in a bitterlv contested 
buc [)Ga,,eful election, ranresents the liberal left al~thouah 1·t • , • ' . b 
includes a number of moderates such as President Orlich and sorre 
members of hjs cabinet. The Co~uunist Party is small and illegal 
bu,: Vicil orga.nj_zed ana effectively led._ It recently instigated 
~isoYders in the bana~a zone and, while not an immediate threat, 
nas long~range potential should e~onomic conditions worsen. 
28 Jan 63 
I 
DIA Intelligonce Bulletin 
(REVERSE BLANK) 
StECRtY-NO ~~or~IE~GN [HSSEM 
Page .(2) 
NW 50955 Docld:32423736 Page 89 
