13-00000 
SECRET 
MW: Wh,at was the impression about IG report at the time? 
In the trenches? There must have been rumors. What 
did you know about it? 
SH: We didn't see it. All we knew about it was that it was 
a bad report; that Kirk h~d taken the knives out and 
was really murdering Bissell and Jake. Nobody 
mentioned J.C. J.C. was off on the sidelines as far as 
everybody was concerned. Everybody in the room was 
Jake (lost words) ... and I don't think Hawkins' name 
was kicked around much, but Bissell's name sure as hell 
was, and Tracy Barnes' name was kicked around as the 
two masterminds, with Jake getting most of the blame 
because he's the guy doing the work. Theoretically 
that's what we thought anyway. And remember that I had 
just gotten back from Saigon when all of this thing 
hit. The rumors where .... sure they were there, but 
nobody had any facts. All we had was rumors. The 
rumors mostly came from the WH Division. So you had to 
sort of figure out whether they were really telling you 
what the' report said, or whether they were making it up 
or what have you. And everyone knew there was no love 
loss between Kirk and Bissell in the first place. 
BL: Sam, another of the points the IG report makes is that 
the DDP did not consult with the analysts - especially 
with regard to Castro's survivability, his popularity, 
the effectiveness of his security forces, and so on -
and they recommended that that become a stand~rd 
practice before covert actions were implemented in the 
future. Did you all have a lot of consultation with 
the DI, or with ONE, through Mongoose? 
SH: Oh yes. There was no problem on that. Yes we did. 
And as a matter of fact we like to think that Sherman 
Kent's September 1962 estimate, the famous September 
NIE, when he was sure that the Soviets were not going 
to put missiles into Cuba, came about as a result of 
our prodding the DDI side of the house in terms of 
doing some kind.of an estimate because things down 
there looked pretty strange. We didn't know what the 
Hell was going on. We said so frankly "We're getting 
all these crazy reports." Ted and his people were 
doing a fine job in providing us with all this crazy 
stuff that's going on in the island, and the OpaLocka 
the Caribbean Admissions Center - was doing a fine job 
with providing us the stuff from all the refugees 
corning out. Everything looked like there was something 
screwy going on but we don't know what, literally. I 
don.'t know who it was who got a hold of DDI Ray Cline, 
10 
SECRET 
