SECRET 
- 6 -
confirming the presence of strategic missiles in Cuba at this time. 
9. Even thoush the intelligence community believes that all have been 
withdrawn, it is of the greatest urgency to determine whether or not strategic 
missiles are now concealed in Cuba. The criticality of this 13 illustrated by 
the fact that, assuming maximum readiness at pre.selected sites, with all equip~ 
ment pre-located, the Soviet mobile medium range (1100 miles) missiles could 
be ma.de operational in a matter of hours. 
10. The intelligence community estimated that approximately 5000 Soviet 
personnel were withdrawn from Cuba following the October confrontation, leaving, 
according to intelligence sources, about 17,500 Soviets in Cuba. A net of 4ooo 
to 5000 additional have been withdrawn since the first of the year, our intelli­
gence people say. However, because of what is described by intelligence as 
ntechnical reasons," the 17,500 intelligence estimate of those remaining is 
unchanged at the writing of this report. At the least, this indicates to the 
Subcommittee that there is a low level of confidence in the original estimate. 
There is also some dou9t in our minds as to the adequacy of the inf orma.tion as 
to the number of Soviets newly arriving. All of the intelligence people agree 
that there is no evidence that any of the combat ground troops associated w1 th 
the four mobile armored groups have been withdrawn. 
11.. Some other sources --primarily refugee and exile groups-- estimate 
that as many as 4o,ooo Soviets a.re now in Cuba.. Bearing in mind the lack of 
ha.l::'d evidence on the question and the substantial underestimation of last Fall, 
we conclude that no one in official United States circles can tell, with any 
real degree of confidence, how many Russians are now in Cuba. and we are of the 
opinion that the official 17,500 estimate is perhaps a minimum figure. 
12. In any event, it is conceded that the combined Soviet and Cuban 
forces now in the island are quite powerful defensively a.nd could offer severe 
opposition to any attack. They a.re admittedly capable of suppressing any 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 41 
