13-00000 
one, or -I am not aware ot ~. • 
those officers concerned With one 
of any former Soviet In~ th!a 
lOm they spoke about this ma ce 
>meone did, I never heard of 1~ 
>d, • beginning" In April 1964, w Id 
:o os.wald lllld the l)robiems w OU 
Oswald constituted· a maJo h1eh . r area 
er areas which PoBed ually 
1ch more and· which :!d i;,cc!f ter­
rh lch obviously ls not easy fo~ 
slo. n made the decision as to ·h· 4? • . W o 
oup. 
rla that he used to pick his Inter-
IS _Nosenko's Engllsh was not 
t is one of the as~ts <1f thl~ 
• ople because. you ·then lose . In th . 
ly hostile guy who. ls Uabfu to e 
her side, lllld so you don't want f: J1 a gOOd idea: to simply bring a lot· 
ed the case and became In depth, 
he officers that they had available 
nversatlons about a Week ago it is 
>gated Noseilko about the O~ald 
)swald, he didn't know aziyth'-­
>swald at all Is there lllly reasoq,g !an tell us? n 
thought the point was that he had 
1e CI debrle.ftngs or Interrogations'. 
.bout Oswald. I am not sure ve 
ian was available at the time. ry 
~;:iosen was because h~ was.level-
.. g to be with the case for th 
C'hat ls why he was used. And tii! 
>f many, he ls a very gOOd officer. 
iat he wasn't what you are say"•-
11.nd that dlfflcult to believe. Birt'i 
• a hypothetical situation, where 1 knew noth ing about Oswald other 
you . think that was unusual that 
.lready who knew .about Oswald, at 
a A to Z. ~ that the OIA. 
unusual, that they didn't do that? 
was the other point I made. to you 
i, let me be frank, we spoke to the 
r knowledge ls gained from that, 
peel up deposition that what I say 
s, but my recollection of It is that 
;,erlence, and my question is wollld 
cause there were very few people, 
leed elsewhere who had a lot of 
of very Mlllly hostile CIA. debrlef-
1>robably otherwise, either abroad, 
} 
I 
i 
! 
I 
I 
! 
( 
I 
' 
535 
•. might have~~ expe~en~ but I know lfmlght sound strange, There ju~ wasn't 
squads and sq~ds of highly ~ained fluent Russian speaking CI experienced· interrogators. ·• · . • · · 
Mr. KI.E:m. One thing I ·would point out to you ls that I have listened to a 
num~~ ~f tapes, 1llld all of the ones I have listened •to were totally bi English, there was no RU$Slan. • • 
Mr. MUBPHY. Yes. . . ' ., 
• .Mr. KLEIN. My question ls, was the questioning of Nosenko considered a major 
operation in the Bureau in 1964? . 
Mr. MUBPHY. It was an important operation, an Important case. 
M;r.. KLEIN. And yet there was nobody with interrogation experi.ence who 
• collld .be used to interrogate him? . ' .· .•. · · . 
• Mt. MUiu':ilY.: I _am ilure some of the people ha<J lnterrogailon: experience. I 
mean [CIA.employee] himself bad a lot ot background in this field. I can't explain 
why: the officer who debriefed him on Oswald did not have prior/briefing on Oswald 
.f:XcePt. whatJ ID,entloned to you the other day; because it was not a thing tliat 
we thought ,ve • were going to get through on, because we W'.ere weak. in that area at that time;. • • • '· • 
. •• . . . ·:• -. 
M;l'.~ KI.Em~ Was Nosenko ever given any drugs? .,, 
Mr~ MUBPHY.,Not ~ my kn~Wle(lge.. . . . '.~ ... 
Mr. KI.1U1'(l Were there e'l"er .any conversations In which you took part about 
• whether to give hlrifdrugs In order i:o get him to tell the truth:_? •. 
•• ·. Mr. MUBP;iiY; There were many, ID,&DJ' convl!I'l;l&tions all the ,tfme about various 
things that co~d be. done, all the techniques that are known,'~ get him to· talk, 
but. as far. as. I. know and in· discussions with the medical officer. who handled 
the case, th~re was never any decision made •Or any attempt ·made to use these, 
because none of them appeai'ed to be likely to produce i'esults''and they all would 
be very harmful and, therefore, not produce results. ' . . . 
Mr. Ku:m; Between 1964 and 1967 when you lost control over the case, in 
those years, it ls your statement that if any drugs were given to him, to get him 
to tell the truth, you would have known about It, and no such thing happened? 
Mr. MUBPHY. That is correct. 
. . •. . . . . . 
Mr. KLEIN. Are you aware that Nosenko was given a He detector test in 1964, 
in April? 
Mr. MURPHY. Yes, sir. 
Mr. KLEIN. Do you know the result of that test? 
Mr. MURPHY. It indicated he was lying on several key points. 
Mr. KLEIN. Do you have any reason to believe that test was Invalid? 
Mr. MUBPHY. No. 
Mr. KI.Em; Are you aware that he ~as given a second Ue detector test in 1966? • 
Mr. MUBPHY. Yes. 
Mr. Kumr. Do you know the result of that test'l 
Mr. MUBPHY. Same thing. . 
Mr. KLEIN. And do you have any reason to believe that test was invalid? 
Mr. MtraPlri'. No; I believe the operator who gave him the test In 1966 was the 
same operator who gave him the test in 1964. 
Mr. ~- That ls correct. 
V. EXCERPTS OF DEPOSITION OF JAMES C. MICIIAELS 
AND ALEKSO POPTANICH, AUGUST 11, 1978, BEFORE 
THE HOUSE SELECT CO:MMI'ITEE ON ASSASSINA­
TIONS 
INTRODUC7l'ION 
In a. further effort to clearup the.facts surrounding Nosenko's claims 
that his statements to the CIA should not be used to impeach his pres­
ent testimony, the committee took depositions from FBI and CIA 
a.gents who were pre.sent during the 1964 interviews. These a.gents were 
