87D 
NW-38321 
·-, 
SECURITY INVESTI~AT~--• 
Dissemination in these cases is made to preclude these subjects 
from utilizing the fact they obtained a passport to refute ( 
allegations of subversive connections. The State Department, 
therefore, will be in possession of dat~ concerning a defendant 
should he attempt to utilize this tactic in such an action. 
·b. Data developed concerning individuals who are not within the Bureau's 
investigative jurisdiction 
(1) Members of the armed forces 
The Delimitations Agreement between the FBI and the armed forces 
intelligence agencies states that the responsibility assumed by 
one organization in a given field car-rie s with it the obligation 
to exchange freely and directly with other subscribing·organizations 
all information of mutual interest. • 
Thus, in discharging our basic responsibilities in the internal 
security field, it is imperative that information concerning 
members of the military services be referred immedi~tely to the 
appropriate branch having primary responsibility for its 
personnel. This procedure is mandatory, even though the security 
aspects of the data have not been fully resolved or verified. 
• It should be specifically pointed ·out in such instances that the 
information has not been verified. . .. 
Section 87D 5b of this manual instructs that if it is determined 
a security subject is a member of the armed services the investi-. 
gation must at that point be disoontinued immediately and reported 
to the Bureau. The basis for such instruction lies in the fact 
that the subject is no longer within our investigative juris­
diction. In addition, dissemination of pertinent reports must 
be made locally in the field to the appropriate intelligence 
agency. 
Our responsibility with regard to mixitary personnel is not con- c_· 
fined to those who have been the sub.jects of security investi- -
gations. It extends to any subversive derogatory data developed 
against a member of the armed services during any of our investi­
gations of either individual.s or organizations. For instance, 
if it is determined that a member of the armed forces has been 
in contact with a security subject or with any individual or group 
raising security implications, the appropriate intelligence 
service should be immediately advised. locally. This should be 
done even though the security aspects of the contact have not been 
resolved, so that the military services may be in a position to.dis­
charge their responsibilities: It must be pointed out to them 
specifically in such instances that the data are unverified, 
and pertinent developments must be transmitted i;o them thereafter 
~mmediately upon receipt. 
Section 87D 6b (1) (h) provide·s that during the course of security 
investigations it must be determined whether the subjects have 
any close relatives in. the armed forces. Our responsibilities 
require that such associations be called to the attention of the 
appropriate military intelligence services, together with per­
tinent data, including reports, on the security subjects involved. 
The evaluation of these associations lies entirely wi.thin ·the 
province of the intelligence services, but for the reasons stated 
previously herein it is incumbent upon the Bureau to dis·seminate 
•• this information immediately upon receipt. 
Any subversive contacts or information· developed concerning 
military personnel must be set out in a letter to the Bureau, 
together with a statement as to the local dissemination made in 
the field. Such letter should be accompanied by a letterhead 
memorandum setting out with .particularity the ·subversive data 
in a form entirely suitable for dissemination. 
82 
.•• 8-5-68 
2075 
( 
~ 
~ t 
~ 
t 
t 
-_ I 
i • 
l . i t r 
I 
