13-00000 
' I 
PAGE 20 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
lawyer or not, Mr. Chairman, but I found out that Congressman Stokes - well, 
you're lucky you're not a lawyer, but I am, and I'm proud to be a lawyer. 
I found out that Congressman Stokes was responsible for a ruling called Terry 
versus Ohio, and you might have heard of a "Terry Frisk and Search," and I 
didn't know that till the other day, that Congressman Stokes had a hand in that, 
and so, again, we find Congressman Stokes showing up again, sharing his 
expertise with the country. 
Lou, the one question I would have, deals with, in both your written testimony, 
and then also your observations to Congressman Baird's question. You talked 
about the "JFK" movie, and all of the rumors and innuendoes and the public 
polls. And you still run into people - as I'm sure - I still run into people 
that aren't convinced that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone on that November day in 
Dallas. 
And part of it has to do, I think, with, after your commission met, and now the 
legislation in '92, and a little delay in getting everybody in place in the 
review board. Do you think it was necessary, after you've reviewed the 
documents in this case, that we waited, as a government, 34 years to make these 
documents available? Was there something impinging upon the national security 
that you found or discovered that made it necessary for the government to wait 
34 full years before releasing this information, and hopefully dispelling some 
of those rumors? 
REP. STOKES: Thank you very much, Mr. LaTourette, firstly for your nice remarks. 
But it's a good question, because not many people realize that this was not -
when we sealed these records for the period 30 to 50 years., this was not done 
because of anything relative to this particular investigation. That was a House 
rule in existence at that time, that applied to any committee that, when it 
completed its work and filed its final report, if they had documents which had 
not been released publicly, under that House rule, they had to be sealed for 30 
to 50 years. The same applied to the other part of that investigation which we 
conducted, which was to investigate the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King 
Jr., which was a companion part of our investigation. So that applied to that 
onealso. • 
But as a result of it, in compliance with the House rule, it just sort of sat 
there until things were stirred up by that "JFK" movie and it sort of brought 
things to the head. 
REP. LATOURETTE: Okay. The principles behind your '92 legislation, the 
Assassination Records Collection Act -- obviously, now we collect records 
differently than we did before. A lot of them are electronically stored. Do 
you think that we can use that act as a vehicle, should another tragedy- God 
forbid we should ever have such another tragedy in this country, but should 
