25 August 1960 
MEMORJ\.NDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 25 August 1960 
PRESENT: Messrs. Merchant, Gray, Irwin, Dulles 
• 1. Congo 
Mr. Parrott outlined broaclly three (or as Mr. Dnlles later 
described them 1'2 1/2 11) operational lines th°;.t we arc following in 
mounting an anti-Lumumba campaign in the Congo. These included: 
operations through the chief advisor of the Christian Trade Unions; 
the planned atten1pt of a Socialist labor Senator to arrange a vote of 
no coniicience i.n Lwnumba; and a brand new contact with an alieged 
leacier oi ce:ri:ain inciepencicnc labor 6 roups. i-Ie emphasized that foe 
latter had just corne up and that we arc now in tl1c process of assessing 
the bona fides and capabilities of the inclividual. 
The Group agreed that the action contemplated is very much 
1n order. Mr. Gray con1mented, however, tl1at his associates had 
expressed extrern.ely strong feelings on the necessity for very 
straightforward action in this situation, and he wo~dered whether 
the plans as outlined were su££icient to accomplish this. lvir. Dulles 
replied that he had taken the comm en ts referred to seriously and had 
every intention of proceeding as vigorously as the situation perrnits 
or requires, but added that he must ncces:,a.rily put himself in a 
position of interpreting instructions of this kind wifoin the bounds of 
necessity and cap.::.bility. It \<.:as finally agreed that. planning for the 
Congo would not necessarily rule out "consideration" oi any p<irticular 
kind of aclivity which rnight contribute to getting rid of Lumwnba. 
}/ir. Irwin cornn1ented that certain individuals in Defense have 
given thoughl to the possibility of using high officials of the C;:itholic 
Church in Africa to promote the general objectives of the V/est. In 
this connection, he cited a preliminary assessrncnt which had been 
made of the Ner;ro Cardinal recently appointed by the Pope - the 
assessment being that the individual in question is a man of not 
Fi 1 :, :.·::::.-:' Pr:OPt.X! Y : 1'" 
THF WH IF ,',(!','.~:~ I',' I ,,.·.: 
r-r-, 
. ·., .. -!J;J LOT l;i::.ST.,Ot-
mt .~095.~ Docld: :3242:3566 Page 126 
-•· 
