87C - D SECT. 87. ' INVESTIGATIONS OF SUBVER.E 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDuALS 
n. Channeling information to case files , 
(1) Memoranda regarding membership or activity in subversive organiza- ) 
[4. 
tions, including summaries of informant reports, should be 
channeled to case files of individuals involved. When informa-
tion from informants or surveillances is channeled to individual 
case files, it should be documented. 
(2) When preparing lengthy channeling memoranda reporting material of 
interest to other offices, limit number of copies prepared to 
two for each other office. Clearly indicate next to names of 
other offices the page number containing•information of interest 
and.note on cov~r page that distribution· of material to individual 
case files should be handled by recipient offices. 
o. Movement of subjects between offices 
If office of origin receives information that subject of current or 
past investigation changes residence to territory of another division, 
office of origin request verification within 30 days. If new residence 
confirmed, office of origin submit FD-128 to transfer origin. Office 
of origin should furnish new office with any pertinent subversive data 
which has not previously been reported in a form suitable for dissemina­
tion, or suitable for incorporation in an LHM or report. 
p. Destruction of Channeling Memoranda 
At the option of appropriate field supervisors, in order to avoid the 
accumulation of channeling memoranda in a case file as well as to 
facilitate the subsequent preparation of LHMs or reports, the following 
procedure may be used: Files may be reopened for preparation of an 
"investigative insert" for later inclusion in a LHM or- report, using 
T symbols identifying informants who have furnished prior informationo 
Agent preparing this insert should also prepare a cover memorandum 
showing what serials in the file have been covered by his review and 
also identifying all symbol number informant~ involved and indicating 
the location of the original data (similar to documentation in the 
cover pages 0f a report). The channeling memoranda covered in the 
review can then be destroyed and the "investigative insert" along with 
its cover memorandum can, if necessary, be forwarded to another field 
division in the event the subject moveso 
Urban Guerrilla Warfare 
(Instructi·ons relating to investigations of above subject matter are con­
tained in section 122, item A8, Manual of Instructions.)] 
D. DISSEMINATION OF DATA DEVELOPED 
1. General Policy 
Information developed during these investigations should be furnished to 
other agencies in Executive Branch which have a legi-timate interest. See 
MRR, part II, section 5, pertaining to Bur~au 1 s overall responsibilities 
and policies in dissemination. 
Do not disseminate earlier reports without reviewing them to insure they 
meet current reporting standards. If they are unsuitable for dissemina­
tion, prepare LHM containing pertinent information. 
2. Specific requirements 
Following instructions cover representative situations which occur 
frequently. 
a. Members of armed forces 
Delimitations Agreement between FBI and armed forces intelligence 
agencies (see section 102B, volume IV, of this manual) requires free 
exchange of all information of mutual interest between subscribing 
agencies. Immediately refer any derogatory or possibly significant 
information developed concerning members of military services, 
including contacts with individuals or groups of security interest, 
to military service having primary responsibility. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1824 
16 
4-15-74 
) 
) 
,; 
i 
f 
f 
~ t 
' ' f 
f 
~ 
' t 
\ 
t 
r. t < 
t t t' 
.. -i !;: 
,• 
t, 
t 
t. 
~ 
~ 
~ 
1 
I } 
~ 
. t 
t i,; 
t 
f i 
i:: 
Ii 
t 
'" 
