ME,!ORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
-~L,c 78- 3613 
December 6, 1978 
Executive Bog'.:Jtry 
SUBJECT: DCI Meeting with Chairman Boland of HPSCI, 5 Dec. 1978 
At the Director's request, he met with Chairman Boland accompanied 
by the Legislative CotD1Sel in the HPSCI offices. He asked to brief the 
Chainnan alone on bio private matters. 
1. With respect to the first, the Kampiles Case, the DCI informed 
Chairmai1 Boland of the sensitive source-information involved in the case· 
after the Chainnan indicated· that he was interested. in this· infonilation. 
The OCI reminded Chainnan Boland that the DDCI had offered to brief him 
when the Kampiles Case first broke but that the Chainnan had not deemed 
it necessary to receive the information at that time. After the cornrmmi­
cation, Chainnan Boland agreed with the DCI that it might be best not to 
brief Mr. Mazzoli or other Members of the Committee. The DCI informetl 
the Chainnan that he might have some personal difficulty with Mr. Mazzoli 
on the question during his first appearance in the New Year, but it was 
agreed that the DCI would be able to make his explanations. ( S ) 
2. . The DCI briefed Chairman Boland on a personal matter and indicated ~ 
that he had briefed Chainnan Bayh on the same question. ( C ) 
3. l\·Iessrs Latimer and O'Neil joined the meeting at this point. The 
DCI discussed the Iranian situation, the alleged intelligence failure and 
the hand-written memo from the President. He indicated that the President's 
• displeasure had not been directed at him personally, but at the subject of 
political reporting in general, both overt and covert, and Chainnan Boland 
described the answer which he had given to ABC News a week ago on this point. 
The Chainnan had apparently stated that political reporting was an Embassy 
fi.mction And not one solely the responsibility of the Intelligence Cornrmmity. 
( C ) 
4. Charters: ·The DCI asked HPSCI to get involved in the Charters 
questions at an early stage and not wait for the Senate to finish its work. 
Because of the Church Connnittee legacy there are likely to remain some 
important differences bebieen the Senate and the Administration on Charters 
questions on which the DCI stated it would be helpful to have the HPSCI 
view during_ the negotiation process. Tom Latimer then asked that we make 
sure we keep him. supplied with all the position papers that have been developed 
by the Working Group which we agreed to do. ( C ) -
5. Finally, the DCI discussed the Authorization Bill and our hope that 
an FOIA repealer and a provision permitt~ng our security people to cany guns 
be included. Mike O'Neill later called back to obtain our language on these 
questions which we have agreed to supply him.( C ) 
From the standpoint of the Corrnnittee, Chairman Boland asked 
whether we had had any extensive involvement with SA.Wu::.. during the reporting 
period on Iran. The. answer was negative with respect to Iranian domestic _ 
.SECJlt[ , ff ,-· . : .. ~~'.'l®~~i 
[ '' ;p-~ :~ ___ ._l. t!_! - C. 
·~. . 
