2. FEDERAL CLEARINGHOUSE·OF CRIMINAL IN'FORMATION 
' ' 
Various .proposals have been brought forth in the past 
. by individuals such as Senator Kefauver, Chief William Parker of • 
the Los Angeles Police Department, Milton Wessel of the Department, 
. and Senator l\!IcClellan for the ·establishment of a central Federal 
. clearinghouse of information on crime. More recently New York 
• State Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz has proposed a clearing­
hoµse of information concerning frauds on the consumer and 
investor public. • 
Our position in the past has consistently been that there 
. is no need for such a clearinghouse and that the necessary and 
desirable dissemination of criminal-type information is already 
being accomplished within. the. framework, of existing law enforcement 
structures. 
Some of the serious objections to such a proposed 
clearinghouse are that it would be an unwarranted intrusion of 
the Federal Government into local affairs. There is the possibility 
that such a clearinghouse would provide an official medium for the 
dissemination of unverified data consisting of rumor and gossip 
and that corrupt and irresponsible individuals woul~ be presented 
. with the opportunity to use such.information for purposes of blackmail 
•. or extortion. In addition to the foregoing, the establishment of such 
a clearinghouse would constitute a costly superstructure on already 
. existing facilities and could result in the establishment of a ''black 
' ' 
. list" characterizing certain individuals as violators on the basis of 
information not completely verified or authenticated. 
' . 
The Bureau already ·disseminates on a daily basis 
innumerable items of information to local,· county, state and 
Federal agencies. This information may not only relate to matters 
• over which we have jurisdiGtion but extends to any items which may 
.. be of interest to other agencieso. The channel§ for dissemination of 
. information are already established and the use of these. channels by 
_ all agencies would appear to obviate the need for any central clearing- • • 
house of information. -
-4-
