13-00000 
SECRET 
- 2 -
Paris, he felt, would provide some understanding of "third world" 
operations. Bonn, he felt, would be a good example of the inter­
relations of_ a CIA Station with the Military and the Foreign Service. 
3. Mr. Aaron stated that he had already sought out Mr. Simon 
of the British Embassy, requesting that contacts be arranged in 
London with the appropriate Foreign Office or Intelligence Offices 
in order to discuss the British experiences in 
11
command and control 11. 
Aaron is also interested in how the British Official Secrets AGt 
works. He had heard that it was proving inadequate. Mr. Aaron 
stated that Simon had not been enthusiastic about the idea but 
promised to look into it. Aaron felt that it had been better to 
work directly with Simon, whom he claimed to know,than to involve 
the Agency's go-between. • 
4. Mr. Aaron intended to make a similar approach to the German 
Embassy. 
5. Mr. Walle.r commented that such approaches to foreign 
governments would make our liaison services uneasy and could 
adversely affect their willingness to cooperate. To this reason, 
we did not favor involving foreign governments -- at whatever 
level or wherever in the bureaucracy. Moreover~ contacts with. 
foreign governments increased the likelihood that the true purpose 
of the Senator's trip could leak to the press. Mr. Waller mentioned 
that he would want to bring this to the attention of others. 
6. Mr. Aaron agreed that the Senator, through press conferences 
or otherwise, would not make public the fact that his trip was 
connected with Select Committee investigations. 
7. Mr. Aaron said that he and the Senator were in touch with 
Mr. Hyland of the State Department with regard to this trip. He 
also suggested that they might_ get in touch with military intelligence 
services in Washington and in the field. He made specific reference 
to "Naval Intelligence
11
• 
8. Mr. Aaron stressed the fact that the itinerary was still 
tentative and subject to change. 
SEGSET 
