14-00000 
\ , 
'I 
• t I -. I• f 
... 
I 
,, 
' ' ' ' ( 
MEMORANDUM OF U~DERSTANDING 
BETWEEN THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE 
AND _THE SELECT COlVIlVIITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS 
I. Preearation of Materials 
A.. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) will cooperate fully 
in the investigations conducted by the Select Committee on Assassinations 
(Committee) by providing access. as requested, to classified information 
within the releasing authority of the CIA. a:nd held by the CIA., that bears 
upon the study and illvestigation authoriz~d by H. Res. 222. CIA will 
notify thEt Committee of any requested information held by CLA not 
within the releasing authority of the CIA, a.nd notify the Co:rnmittee of the 
proper authority to co.J:Itact to obtain the information .. No document or a 
portion of the document in the possession o! CIA will be .withheld without 
written. notice o! that action to the Committee. Access to all classified 
information designated tor. protection from unauthorized disclosure by the 
Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) and currently held by any federal 
agency or department shall be_ governed by this mem~andum. 
B. Documentary material will be made availab1:'· as expeditiously 
and completely as feasible., subject to the responsibility of the DCL to 
protect sensitive intelligence sources and methods. The Coinmittee and 
CIA will periodically agree upon a list of identities that will not be excised 
from materials turned over to the Committee. Subject to the list of 
identities that·will not be deleted, CIA will appropriately sanitize, including 
excising if necessary, information to assure protection of information 
identifying sensitive sources and methods. \Vhen ·an excision is made, 
CIA will indicate the nature of the source or method excised., including the 
functional intelligence discipline which was the source of the intelligence. 
C. The Chief Counsel of the Select Committee on Assassinations 
and a designated representative of the DCI shall meet monthly to discuss 
a random sample of the complete and unsanitized materials selected by 
the Chief Counsel for the purpose of verifying the appropriateness of the 
sanitizing dol\e by the ClA. Those matters on which they do not agree 
shall be referred to the Chairman., Ranking Minority Member, and the 
DC! for resolution. 
I.: 
