( 
[ 
( 
J.07C-D 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
SECTIOlf 10. SECURITY INFORMANTS AND COlfl!'I.TIAL SOURCES. 
Inquiries of discreet nature concerning i·ndividual' s personal history 
(date and place of birth, et·c.). patriotism, health, reliability, 
stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past. employments, 
and business connections. Investigation must definitely establish that 
individual can be used without danger of future embarrassment due 
to inst~bility or unreliability. Securing background information from 
individual is not sufficient; his background must be established by 
investigation, including discreet inquiries among persons personally 
acquainted with him. 
Check of local credit and arrest records. [Limit credit check of 
individual to identifying information only {name, address, form~r 
address, employment, former employment.)] Submit FD-165 to_ Identification· 
Division to obtain any record he may have and to place stop against 
fingerprints if on file. 
Review· armed services record if applicable. 
Check draft status or status in armed forces reserve. 
Check domestic status and, if any marital difficulties, obtain details. 
Persons being considered for use in espionage and forei~n nationality 
cases may present special problems which liniit scope of investigation. 
(See instructions re contact cases and deseco program, section 105, 
volume IV, of this manual.} However, where practical, cover above items. 
Leads must be handJ.ed by auxiliary offices within 30 days. Investigation 
must be completed prior to any request to guide, direct, or designate in­
dividual as potential security informant. 
D. APPROVAL, INDOCTRINATION, AND DEVELOPJ:1E~T OF POTENTIAL INFORJ:m.NTS 
1. When background information obtained, transmit results to Bureau in same 
numerical sequence set out in subsection C, and request authori·ty t·o des­
ignate individual as Bureau-approved potential security informant and to 
proceed with development. Submit by secure teletype (usually Nitel}. 
Be brief and concise. Do not submit on UACB basis. Includ~ physical 
( 
description. ( 
a. If the individual is a student, include separate paragraph clear~y 
setting forth the number of extremist and/or security informants, 
the number of potential extremist and/or potential security in­
formants, and the number of panel sources currently being opera·l;ed at 
the particular college or university to which the request pertains. 
2. After designation as Bureau-approved potential security informant, fol~ 
lowing matters should be made clear to him: 
a. Ris assis·tance is strictly voluntary and Jie is to understand there is 
no coercion or intimidation involved. 
b. He is not and cannot consider himself employee or "undercover Agent" 
of FBI. Seriousness of violating impersonation statutes must be 
impressed upon him. • 
c. Ris cooperation must be strictly confidential at all times and if 
he should feel he cannot maintain this confidence, he should so 
advise. There should be no doubt left in mind of potential informant 
that his relationship must remain on confidential basis and if he 
violates confidence he v-rill be of no v-alue and by so doing Bureau 1 s 
investigative activity may be jeopardized. If he has special 
problem which would require revealing his assistance to his wife or 
other pertinent individual, this should be ascertained and appropriate 
recom.~endation made to Bureau. 
d. If potential informant is connected in any manner with labor ~nio~, 
inform him that Bureau is not interested in employer-employee relation­
ships as such and is only concerned with obtaining information on 
infiltration of unions by subversive elements. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1758 
4 
10-13-71 
., 
\ 
