( .... 
( 
( 
', "'. ~ 
SECTION IO.SECURITY J'.NFORMANTS .um CONFI-TIAL S~URCES. 1073-T 
b.. If no pertinent derogatory information is developed, initial contact 
ma.y be made wit:j:J. prospective panel source to ascertain cooperative­
ness; however, in regard to individuals associated with educ?,tional 
institutions, be guided by current instructions concerning investi­
gations on campuses. 
c. Submit letter to Bureau requesting authorlty to use individual as a 
panel source and set out: 
{1) Results of background investigation and data as to date and 
place of birth, citizenship status if foreign born, residence 
and employment addresses 
(2) Details of expected area of activity of individual as-panel 
.source and results of any interviews conducted with him 
(3) Statement to effect subject is being considered panel source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confi­
dential nature of hi& relationship with Bureau . .Also, state­
ment should be made that you will be alert to be certain sub­
ject is not a plant and, ·if connected with iabor union or 
educational institution, he wi 11 be advised of Bureau policy 
on such matters~ • 
(4) One copy of letter should consist only of first page. If 
approved at Bureau, stamped notation indicating Bureau approval 
will be placed on single -page copy and it will be r~turned to 
field. 
3 • .Administrative handling 
a. Follow same procedure in handling, processing, and reporting data and 
material furnished by panel sources as afforded security informants. 
b. Handle payments for legitimate expenses incurred and services rendered 
in same manner as security informants. Gifts should not be given to 
panel sources. 
c. o·pen 134 file when active investigation of prospective panel source 
initiated. Close file administratively if panelist is not contacted 
regularly. Npte contacts with pa.~elists in their respective files. 
d. Only Agents designated in particular case should contact panelists. 
e. Every six months submit FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments to panel source. If source not paid on Bureau authorization, 
Agent handling prepare memorandum to SAC for file containing certi­
fication as to stability and reliability. 
f. A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is taken 
to develop an individual as a panel source. Use abbreviation "PS" 
before symbol number, e.g., PS NY 000-S. 
g. Designate, where practicable, coordinating Agent to maintain current 
roster of panel sources and scheduled organization activities, whg 
will notify Agents handling individual panelists of organizational 
functions to be covered. Coordinating Agent should receive notice of 
coming events from Agents handling organizations, informants, and 
publications. 
h. Advise Bureau of date panel source is discontinued and _reasons. 
!I.'. DOU3LE AGENT OPERATIONS 
1. Pas sage of inf orma ti on 
a. In double agent operations information requested by principals is 
frequently passed either to build up double agent's stature or as 
evidence of espionage activity. 
b. Each case must be carefully evaluated to make certain tha~ net 
gain accrues to U. s. 
c. Information passed should be, carefully handled and logical explana­
tions created for its acquisition by double agent. 
2. Locating information to pass 
Where possible field office handling double agent should locate appropriate 
information; however, Bureau can assist in fulfilling requests for infor­
mation in possession of other Government agencies. 
3. Obtaining Bureau authority 
Bureau authority must be obtained to pass any inform:i.tion il). double 
agent operation except: 
a. Newspaper or magazine article 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1190 
23 
10-13-71 
l 
. I 
I 
! 
1 
I 
i t i 
·1 
j 
. I 
i 
I I 
I 
