13-00000 
Our review of records in the early months was slowed by the complexities of the issues 
·raised in the records. The unprecedented new standards of the JFK Act, which go far 
beyond those established under the Freedom of Information Act, required a ~e- ,, 
consuming early phase. 
At first, the review process proceeded slowly and the agencies were afforded ample 
opportunity to present .their evidence. Over time, the Review Board began to 
standardize -its interpretation of the relevant section of the JFK Act and the issues raised 
in the yarious _documents. Now that the Review Board and the agencies are familiar 
with the rigorous demands of the JFK Act, the process has accelerated. In a 
progressively increasing number of cases, records that initially contained proposed 
postponements can be released through a 
11
consent'' process. In this consent process, 
the ARRB staff notifies an agency that its proposed postponements are not likely to be 
approved by the Review Board and the agency thereupon voluntarily consents to the 
release of the information. 
In our review of the FBI's)~Core~d Related Files;, and·the-,qA~swOswatd 201 File," ·• 
the ~rds that have been the focus of our attention to date, we subjected every 
requested redaction to a rigorous test did the evidence of the harm that would result 
from the release of the information outweigh the public interest in the information? 
In considering our review of the CIA and FBI "Sequestered Collections," the Board 
recognized that it needed to develop a different approach, one that would take into 
account the varied degree of relevance of individual records to the assassination. Only 
in this way could the Board ensure that it would appropriately expend its resources in 
its last year. As a first step, the Board carefully analyzed each collection in order to 
determine what priority should be assigned to the category of records. In addition, the 
Board developed a set of guidelines for the review of these records which recognized_ 
that some categories of records did not require the intensive word-by-word review that 
had been the rule for the core collections that have been the subject of the Board's 
attention to date. The development of these guidelines began with the August 6, 1996 
Board public hearing and culminated in their adoption at the October 16, 1996 Board 
meeting. The ARRB staff will distinguish between records whose relevance to the 
assassination is clear and those not believed to be relevant (or ''NBR"). Applying these 
new standards will permit the ARRB staff to identify and review the most significant 
remaining records in order of priority. 
These detailed guidelines will reduce the loss of valuable Review Board and ARRB staff 
time expended to review, on a werd-by-word basis, those documents that have a 
remote relationship, at best, to the Kennedy assassination. Those documents that are 
identified as relevant to the assassination will continue to be reviewed word-by-word. 
These standards of relevance are designed to ensure that the greatest number of true 
9 
