( 
( 
. ( 
( 
[ 
[ 
{7} 
87. SECURITY INVESTIGATI( 
• 
87D 
·-should be oompletely filled out just as if a first 
reoommendation is being made, and submitted with a 
ourrent report. If not, the Bureau should be advised 
of the reasons for not reactivating hi·s security index 
ca.rd. In either case, cancel the inactive card. 
Per~odic verification of addresses 
(a) The data recorded on security index cards sha.·11 be in an 
up-to-date status at all times . 
.. {b) The whereabouts of all security index subjects should be 
known at all times. The residence and business addresses 
of security index .subjects in priority I must be checked 
·at least once each three months. The residence and 
business addresses of all other security index subjects 
must be checked at least once ·each[year·, ]except those 
imprisoned and those who we~e included in the security 
index because of disaffection for the U. s. (defection 
to a Sino-Soviet-bloc country, including Cuba since. • 
10-1-60) (see section 105G, item 3, volume IV, of this 
manual}. The residence and employment of those who were 
included in the security index because of disaffection for 
the U.S. must be verified every[ninety]days. The case 
of any security index subject who is -out of the country· 
must be followed at least[once each year]to deter.mine if 
. •.· he ha.s returned to this country. • 
{c} 
(a} 
{e) 
Perfect arrangements to be advised on a current basis of 
any indication that the subject is engaged in subversive 
activities, is exhibiting violent tendencies, or plans to 
change his residence or employment. Periodic. checks to 
verify residence or business addresses may be made under 
a.ppropria.te pretext by telephone once each six months for 
those individuals in priority I and once[every two yea.rs] 
for all other subjects. Pretext means may be utilized 
during other periodic checks conducted ei~her personally 
or through appropriate sources. 
The physical characteristics and description of each 
security index subject shall be determined or verifted 
by personal observation and the individual case file of 
each security index subject sba.11 show that this ha.s been 
done. If a. security index subject has not been personally 
observed previously, this should be done during the next 
verification of the subject's residenc~ and/or business 
addresses. 
Use form FD-154 in verifying addresses·of security index 
subjects when its use will facilitate the ch~cking of the 
addresses; When FD-154 is not used in verifying addresses, 
a. notation must be made on the last FD-154, FD-122, or FD-128 
in the subject's case file showing the subject's current 
residence and business addresses and the date such addresses 
were verified. This must be done to assure that the-file 
will contain all information concerning the status of the 
case and that the file will come to the attention of the 
Agent or field supervisor to determine if· additional action 
is warranted at the time of the verification of addresses. 
Each time that a security index subject's residence a.nd 
employment are verified, the case must be reevaluated to 
assure that the subject is qualified for inclusion in the 
security index unde~ the criteria for such inclusion. A 
notation to the effect that the case has been reviewed for 
this purpose shall be made in the file. 
If it is determined that the residence or business address· 
or both ha.ve been changed from those appearing on the 
security index card, FD-122 should be •ubmitted to ~he Bureau 
with the current residence or business address shown 
thereon. In such instances, FD-122 should show only the 
changes to be made on the security index card. FD-122 
should be accompanied by form FD-366 for dissemination to 
Secret Service. Secret Service should be advised locally 
by dissemination of FD-366. 
57 
3-13-69 
NW .38321 Docld:32989529 Page 
