• 
Memorandum to Mr. w. R. Wannall • 
Re:· Senstudy 75 
• 
recognized that certain aspects· ·of intelligence activities 
must' receive. ·special consideration and treatment (a copy of 
Colby's letter· is attached) . By letter dated 3/12/7 5, Senator 
Church confirmed· the receipt of Colby's letter and again stated 
that in the ·event the SSC inquiry touches ·on st:tch sensitive 
areas, Senator Church ·and Colby should discuss· jointly what 
procedures should· be followed (copy of Senator Church 1·s letter 
is attached) . 
Following the meeting Mr. Wilderotter advised me that 
the White House will prepare ·a lette-r to Senator Church ·recognizing 
that Congress· ·can, at its: discretion, dedlass·ify mate·rial it 
receives but strongly urging that such ·declass·ificati0n action 
not be ·takeri unila·terally by the Senate Select Committee without 
the approval ·of the agency originating the information. 
Wilderotter stated that the White House ·expected to speak for 
the Exec'utive Branch ·with a str.ong voice and that .individual 
agencies should· take. no action regarding the Church :statement 
until the White House· has had the opportunity to clear the air 
with ·senator Church. 
SECRECY AGREEMENT ANn •EMPLOYEE' NOTICE 
Attached is a copy of a CIA employee bulletin dated 
3/12/75. This bulletin reli·eves CIA employees from the secrecy 
agreement should they be interviewed or sho'uld they have to 
te·stify before the SS'C. At the 'EXCOM meeting Mr. Wilderotter 
suggeste·d all 9-gencies -of the intelligence community employing 
a sedrecy agreement prepare such an employee notice as well as 
a letter to Senator Church advising him that the. individual 
agency was -relieving their employees from the sedrecy agreement. 
Mr. Colby charged the Security Committee of the United State·s 
Intelligen:ce Board (USIB) with preparing a draft of such a 
bulletln and letter for the guidance of member agencies and 
departments. • 
I 
It ·is ·the opinion of Ass·istant Director Mintz ·concurred IN 
by the Intelligence Division that a general letter to all 
employees from the Director releasing them from their obligation 
under the FBI employment agreement concerning se·crecy for 
purposes of possible interviews by representatives of the' Senate 
CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38296 Docld:32989532 Page 109 
