13-00000 
-l • 
/ .... ·. ,• 
The photograph was being reviewed for clearer guide lines as to construction 
time. He said he saw no reason to change the mid-' 63 estimate of 125 to 15 0 
launching sites, but there might be reason to change the future estimate. 
Dr. Langer asked how many sites there were with 18 pads and Mr. McCone 
replied, "Only one. 11 
4. Dr. Land stated that CORONA was getting better and better, and 
he hoped that all of those in the pursuit of a better vehicle would not forget 
that CORONA is doing the job. Mr. McCone replied that this was true, and 
said that he had the schedule for satellite launchings which he would leave 
with the Board. This called for CORONA-Monce a month to July, with an 
extra one in May, and CORONA-J once a month from May 1963 to July 1964, 
with two in September. If trouble develops with the "J',' configuray9n, "M" 
can be continued once a month up.til March. The next[.AN'YAR'I;i}lH.ot is 
Ii scheduled for early next month and will be followed by three more. The first 
9 f [_GAMBl!}shot is scheduled in June, and will then be launched once a month 
I 
through all of 1964. Mr.· McCone noted that if there were future failures, 
there should be no hiatus and a maximum of only seven days' delay between 
shots. • 
_ . • 5., Mr. McCo.p'[ reported that the_ OXCART ve?icle,would have one_more 
flight at Mach(!.. ~ and then would be pus9ed up to its full speed and altitude. 
General Doolittle noted that the next{; 6]{ncrease presented very serious 
engineering problems. Mr. McCone said that this was thoroughly understood 
but he wanted the Board to be apprised of the status. 
6., Mr. McCone reported that he was establishing a panel to make a 
judgment as to what additional steps should be taken to bring satisfactory 
photography in the area of resolution. He noted that he felt we were dealing 
( 
too much in· optimistic hope at the present time, and that he wanted the best 
possible judgment as to the resolution that could be achieved from satellite 
photography in order to be weighed with the political decision of overflying 
the Soviet Union.LJie stated that he had gone to Cambridge to see • 
Dr. Edward Purcell in an effort- to persuade him to chair a panel which 
would be composed of the best brains from both inside and outside the Govern­
ment.·. He reported that he felt he must be able to tell the President when 
satellite photography would reach the desired resolution. Mr. McCone 
advised that he had a memorandum establishing the terms of reference of 
this co:i:nmittee which he would submit to the President's Board. He noted 
that there were many studies oriented toward the most exotic types of 
reconnaissance, including the best read-out, but that he wanted this com­
mittee to be completely impartial and objective and therefore was establishing 
it under his personal direction. He noted that he had the enthusiastic support 
- 3 -
