_, 
interchange of information between the U.S. 
Coast Guar.d and British naval forces wi t'1 
regard to possible staging areas which m.:y be 
ed by exiles in the Bahamas. 
"E., Actions Against Targets in the US 
11
1.. Sabotage or terror1stic bombings t, 
COMMENI The level of intensity of such actions cc,templated 
within the context of the paper is not considered 
to exceed the capabilities of law enforcement 
agencies to control~ There are military contingency 
plans to protect against this tyPe of activity at a much higher level of intensity. 
11
2 .. Jamming of US radio stations" 
COMMENT There are standing operating procedures to 
overcome interference and jamming methods 
employed against military communications. 
2 .. 
11
Any additional pertinent information on existing 
or related plans" and "recommendations, if any, on other 
likely actions which might be taken by the Castro govern­ment in retaliation for Cuban exile raids" was also 
requested .. The furnished list of possible retaliatory 
actions by the C8stro government were of "the leveJ. of 
intensity which the committee agreed to be in the nost 
likely category. 
11 
It is inferred that what the cor:imittee 
had in mind by the most likely "level of int€nsity 11 
was that level which would not provoke the U11ited States 
into taking extensive countermeasures which might seriously 
endanger the Castro regime. The summaries of actions, 
set forth above, which might be taken under .existing 
military contingency plans a:re essentially defensive 
reactions to Cuban initiatives. There are, however, existing 
and related military plans, retaliatory in nature, wh1ch 
range up to and include a full scale military invasion of Cuba. 
3. If it is assumed that the most likely actions of the 
Cuban government are those which would not provoke United 
States retaliation seriously and immediately endangering 
the Castro regime, it appears more likely that Castro might 
intensify his support of subversive forces in La.tin America 
4 Enclosure 
NW 50955 Docld:32425002 Page 8 ---------------------------
