( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
• 
P.A.RT II 
SECTION 6. PUBLIC.ATIONS, PRESS, ).ND PUBLIC CONT.A.CTS 
h, To include as many pertinent photographs as possible to ma~~ the 
write-up interesting. The photographs should not necessarily be of 
subjects alone but should be of paraphernalia used by the criminal, 
photographs of unusual loot obtained, scenes of various locales, eto, 
If photogriphs submitted do not b~long to the FBI, it is necessary 
to inform the Bureau of their source and whether the owner of the 
photographs has any objection to their being reproduced in publi­
cations. 
[i. Each portio~ of tha write-up should be documented as to the identity 
of the report or other communication from which facts were taken.· The 
documentation should be set off by parentheses and follow immediately 
the por-t;ion of the write-up to which it pertains. J 
4-, Do not: 
a. Identify law enforcement officers by name but by title and NA affilia-
tion 
b, Show aliases.of subjects of Dependents Assistance Act of 1950 
o, Show aliases of victims of WSTA cases. 
d. Use compli~ated sentence structure 
e. Use technical references to statutes 
f. E~press personal opinions 
g. Reveal identity of confidential informants 
h. Use Bureau expressions like "the subject" and "the Bureau" 
i. Prepare interesting case write-ups on juveniles, sex offenders, and 
parole -violators but submit these by letter 
j. Use adjectives excessively 
5, Transmittal 
Set forth all dat~ necessary for Bureau's consideration at the beginning 
of write-up and then follow with in~eresting case data. Transmit by 
routing slip, attention Crime Records Division. 
6. Dissemination 
New ones issued by the Bureau should be carefully reviewed for possible 
interest to feature writers in field office territory and consideration 
given to supplying them to appropriate writers. If there is an appreci­
able passage of time after issuance, obtain Bureau approval before re­
lease. Pertinent photographs, if available, will be furnished by the 
Bureau on request. • 
E. CIRCULAR LETTERS, TRADE AHD BUSINESS PUBLICATIONS 
1, Circular letters must·be approved in advance by the Bureau and sent in 
by the ·office initiating the request. 
2. SACs may approve the use of a circular letter directed to banking-
type institutions within their own divisions to expedite oiroulariza.tion 
of known serial numbers of money included in ·the loo·t taken in a bank 
robbery, bank burglary, or bank larceny, In all instances this letter 
must include the following: 
a. A brief concise statement concerning the bank robbery, bank burglary, 
or -bank larceny and the fact that' included in the loot or money 
taken was money, the serial numbers of whioh are known 
b, List of known serial numbers according to _denomination, series year 
if known, alphabetical order, and numerical seq~ence 
c, A statement that the matter is to be treated con•fidentially 
d. A cautionary statement that no bank employee should take ·any action 
which would tend to jeopardize his or her life or safety 
e. The address and the telephone number of the field office with a 
statement that any person should contact the field office by calling 
collect 
In all other instances, including requests for circularization in other 
field divisions, prior Bureau approval must be obtained in accordance 
with existing rules governing circular letters. 
3. Auxiliary offices are to advise the office of origin by letter of the 
results obtained through a circular letter. Office of origin should 
summarize the results in its next report. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 369 
3 
9-30-60 
