(~-=----------------------------------------------. 
SECRET 
SAMUEL ADASON J'lH'FE 
.Taffe lat0x· j_ndica ted that "SJ.av a" warned 
him of the defector shortly after Jaffe read the story 
in tho press th~t a Soviet national disappeired in Switzer­
land-. J"affe continued: "He (1S1ava') was actually conce1·ned 
because the man hs,d a lot of valuable information. He said 
he wo1:·ked with r Slava I for a while ancl then he was in another 
departriient ~~ higher posit ipn. He knew him ( t Slava') personal­
ly o And he-:? satd he couldn't understand why the man- would do 
anything like defecting. He said, 'Don't say anything about 
knowing me to anyone c 
1 
_He was very, _ very wor:i:.•ied." Jaffe 
said ho learned at about the time he was leaving Russia that 
"Slava 11 was "being demoted and was going into another area. 
He wasn't happy. I think he felt he ht\d more to offer.n i 
~hen again requested to relate the circumstances 
of his introduction to 11Slava", Jaffe stated he was dating a 
Soviet girlo He said he did not believe the Soviets have any 
comprom:tsing photographs of their activities; however, the 
girl told him she had been called up before the review board I 
of" the factory where she worked and emba1:rassed b·eca.1.ise of her g 
association with an American. She told ~affe,that the whole I 
story would appear :i.n "Izvestia" or.some other Soviet news ... 
paper. .Jaffe cont inned: • "At this point Fedorov befriended 6! 
fue. He said, tI hear by the grapevine you are in a .little 1 
hot watE~r.' _I acl~nowledged this but said I didn't think there , I 
was anything wrong with seeing a Soviet girl. He said it could r 
. be very serious; your name could be written in 'Izvestia' P. ·, 
Jaffe indicated F'edorov got "very melodramatic." He continued: 
~ 1 1 was scared of the automobile accident (in which he hit a 
':: pea.estrian. ·). But I wasn't scared about this." Jaffe then , 
·'-r-elated ag£in that Fedorov introduced "Slava II to him as an 
individual who could keep his name out of the newspapers. 
It was pointed out to Jaffe that he first men-
tioned "S1ava" to·the FBI in January, 1963, and he was asked 
if he could recall the information he furnished at that time 
regarding attendance at a party and flat tire£. He then re~ 
lated that he had attended a party with a girl friend and had . 
a few drin1'.::s. At about 1:00 a.m., he waHdriving in an area 6 
not familiar to him and noticed he was being "tailed. 11 Then -
__ he observed a "detour left II s:gn. He turned left as directed, 
:. _subsequently he noticed the surveilling car continue on the 
i road he had left9 He then abruptly fell into a big hole and 
all four tires were flattened by the severe fall. The girl 
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989104 Page 332 
---- -----
SECRET 
61 
I 
I I H 
