( H. 
., 
( 
( 
P.ART II 6H 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
DLF'ORM.A.TION TO' BE FURNISHED TO THE BUREAU 
L Which does not have a nationwide circulatio.n or interest 
a. Relating to law enforcement concerning 
!
11 Scientific _apparatus 
2 Equipment 
3 Personnel 
4 Methods 
( 5) Economics 
b. Newspaper clippings, other than items bearing the date line of a 
....... " 
national wire service, should be submitted when they concern 
1) The FBI, derogatory and complimentary. If possible, show author. 
2) Outstanding abuses of parole and probaxion 
3l Outstanding instances of juvenile crime 
4 Bad local crime conditions 
5 Scientific crime detection experts 
6 Bureau police schools only when there is some unusual feature 
about· the publicity. Examples: . items setting f.o!th comments 
made by poiice officers a? to the value of police schools; 
comments on the caliber of schools i:p. which FBI participates; 
incidents in which a police officer credits-instruction he 
received in a police school as enabling him to capture a fugitive, 
~olve a case, or otherwise perform his work more efficiently. 
( File in individual [ pertinent school ]files clippings rela·tive 
to each police school in which field participates.) 
Police training in colleges and universities 
Aggravated sex offenders 
Matters appearing in the press concerning Members of Congress or 
the names of prominent persons who are mentioned in conneqtion 
with Bureau cases.· These matters also include wire service stories 
mentioning directly or indirectly persons of ·prominence in pending 
investigations being handled in your division. Forward such 
matters. immediately and if there is any question as ·to what 
action should be taken ask for specific instructions. 
(10) Items of interest by nationally syndicated columnists need 
not be su~mitted if it is apparent that such .items will come 
to the Bureau's attention throu·gh its review of Washington·, 
D. c., ne.-rnpapers. Columns of i.nterest. by writers syndicated 
regionally should, of course.t be submitted. 
2. Method of preparation for transmittal 
a. Mount the clipping on form FD-350 within the borders shown. 
b. Do not fold the clipping except in the case of a very large picture· 
·or in the case of a·single word in a headline too long to fit in the 
ailotted space .. Make certain the clipping is placed evenly on the 
paper and does not hang over its edges. If necessary, a second page 
may be used and the only requirement is that a margin at least 1 1/2 
inches deep should be left at the top of the page. 
c. The large oiock on the right side of FD-350 has space for the insertion 
of the names of more than one newspaper. The _names of .newspapers 
. clipped may be overprinted in this space. Placing the page numbe:r· on 
the line in front of the name of the newspaper will serve to designate 
which paper the clipping is from. The page number may be written in 
longhand. Only the - page number on which the article ·beg:i.'ns should. 
be shown. If overprinting is not used, required information oth·er 
than page number should be typed. 
d. Show whether the matter mentioned is being investigated. 
e. Inser~ staples hori~on~ally at the top and bottom and vertically at 
the sides of all clippings. Use only a sufficient number of staples 
~o hold the clipping securely to the paper. · . 
f. D? no~ mutilate or mark c~ipping in any manner by underlining or· 
circling words or by drawing arrows to direct attention. 
g. No cover letter needed when submitting clippings unless clarification 
is_required for a particular clipping. This may be handled by routing 
slip, letter, or airtel accompanying clipping in question. • 
.5 
1-27-64 
\ NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 Page 974 
