... 
D, 
( 
( 
8. 
9. 
10. 
SECTI!"~{ 107 ')SECURITY IH}'0Ri1AW.PS AND coirrw i'JIAL SOURCE:-; 107C - D 
Po-'~ential secur:i.informant::i in espi.onage n.nd fl gn nation,~lity cases 
many timer, present special problems v1h.icri. limit or govern the r.-cope of 
the initial investigation, (Soe instructlons re contact ca~es and 
deocco program, section 105X,6b an~ 6h, volume IV~ of this manual.) 
Howe\re:r.·, where p1·actical the above :i.tems should be co,rered, 
Leads to obtain 1w.ckground data must be handled by a,uxiliary offices 
within 30 days. • 
Investigation as outlined above must be completed prior to any request to 
guic1e, direct, and deveJ.op an indi vi.dual :;,,s a potential infor;nant. 
IHTERVIEWS AND J)}~VELOPl1ZHT OF POTEN"TTAL SJ!~CURITY IUFORl'LAHTS 
1. \/hen b;,ckground information obtained as described under subsec:+.ion C, 
transmit resultG ·co Ru-rea1t in the same numerical sequence as set out 
in subsection C, and request authority to[designatelindividuaJ as a[Bureau­
approv(H1 poten·l;ial J security infcrm.1.nt[anrl proceed vd th hj s dnvr,J opmen-L.) 
2. When authority is granted by Bureau, steps should be ta.ken to deveJ.op 
his potentiality and he should be made aware of Bureau policy. 
3. Care..fu.J.ly plan ini tlal :i.nterviews as to time and J.oc2.tion to prevent any 
embarrassment to Bureau.. • 
4; Do not interview female potentials in their own homes o; apartments unless 
neoessary and all such interviews in their residences should be conducted 
by two Agents after specific approval of the superior in the field 
office responsible for development of info1mants. This instruction is 
not applicable where active investigatioft ~as established that the 
potential informant is of good character, there is no indication of 
affiliation with subversive groups,· and there will be no embarrassmcint 
to tl1e Bureau, • 
5. Except in espionage and foreign nationality matters where con·!;2,ct is· 
maintained on a periodic basis dependent on the circumstances of the 
oas e, potential informan·cs should be contacted personally at l"east • 
once every two weeks in the same manner as informants. 
6. .Advise Bureau ·of progress being made at leas·(; every four months. 
Letter" concerning potential informants who are not being paid on 
Bureau ,,uthorization should ·be submitted on a UACB 1iasis, should 
conta:i.n informative summary of information furnished during past four 
months, and must include certifications regarding potential informant's 
stability and reliability and.hie indoctrination against disclosure. 
These letters should follow the for:., inc1icated under ::ection 107N',. 3b, 
but should omit item (5) concerning payments and reword item (1) to 
omit reference to any payment recommendation. • 
7. Post records of contacts with potential informants so that the cases will 
not become delinquent. 
B ■- Du.ring interv:i.ev-rs with potential ·informants, if it develops· individual 
does not have the necessary capabilities, dis6ontinue efforts. 
9. Potential informant should have contacts, associates; or possibilities 
for engaging in activity through which he can ob·l;ain and furnish current 
information of Bureau interest in security field. 
10. If individual does not have potential as above described but is willing 
to cooperate, consider indicating to him he can be of assistance if he 
places himself :i.n a position where he may be able to obtain information 
of value. In this regard, adclres s of local headqua:r--!;ers of s1.i.bversi ve 
organizations or meeting places of _subversive groups may be mentioned 
to the individual as places where it may be possible for him to obtain 
information if he so desires; also, it may be mentioned that if-he sub-. 
scribes to periodicals or frequents ouch p_laces above mentioned, he ·niay 
be approached or an interest may be shown in him which,if developed, 
would be the means whereby he could obtain information. 
11. Inform potential informants who agree to assist the Bureau tha-l; such 
assistance must be strictly voluntary and they are to understand that 
there is no coercion or intimidation inYo!ved. 
5 
3-15-65 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 
