,. 
... 
( 
r 
( 
( 
F. 
4. 
PART II 6E - G 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, )~ID PUBLIC CONTACTS 
One copy of the circular letter is to be filed, A list of addresses is to 
be attached, Upon the receipt of a reply, the addressee's name is to be 
checked to indicate this fact, Replies which are entirely negative 
should not be filed unlesi the~e is reason tor doing so, Oply negative 
replies are to be des~r6yed ~fter handling in accordance with item 3 
above, Sub-A files may' be·' used when the number of replies :to be filed 
is large, ' 
5. Circular letters and other information to be distributed or rele~sed to 
the public must be so worded as-to be unobjectionable to any race, creed, 
or religion, . , 
6, Trade publications may, w~ih aa~ance Bur~au approval, be ~sed ~~ publicize 
information concerning f_ugi ti ves known to be _active ip, particular trades, 
businesses, or professions. The field office where the publication is 
located should check its indices concerning the publication, as well as 
the person o•r persori_s who will have to })e contacted, before seeking Bureau 
approval, and suffici~nt identifying data should be furnished so that an 
appropriate Bureau indices check may be made, 
RJ~IO BROADCASTS 
Radio broadcasts without advance Bureau approval may be made in hot-pursuit 
fugitive cases, Care must be exercised in broadcasting a license number 
believed used by fugitive as it may be disposed of to an innocent third per­
son. 
G. FIELD OFFICE LISTS 
1. Law enforcement officials 
a, On March 1 of each year all field offices shall forward to the Bureau 
in duplicate, and with a space left between the officials of each 
department, a list of such law enforcement officials and agencies 
[ whose cooperation might be helpful, [Indicate by an asterisk any 
( change which was not previously called to the ~ureaurs attention.] 
(1) Chiefs of police 
( 2) Sheriffs 
Page 
( 3) State police or highway patrol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
4) u.· s. Marshals and deputies 
5 Ranking Federal law enforcement officers 
6 Wardens of penal institutions 
7 District attorneys or county prosecutors 
8 Railway police (if desirable) 
9 Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins 
(10 Any other officials who receive identification orders 
b. Changes in the list are to be reported in duplicate to the Bureau 
as they occur. ' 
c. Letters. advising the Bureau of changes. are to be set up as indicated: 
No. City "Deleted Added Remarks 
4 Center City, Iowa 
7 _Jonesville, Iowa 
3 Brovm sville, Iowa 
John M. Doe, Sheriff· 
Wayne County 
Richard Bro,vn 
Chief of Police 
George Smith 
Constable 
3a 
1-29-62 
R. Roe, Sheriff 
Wayne County 
George Smythe 
Deceased 
successor 
not named 
To show 
correct 
spelling 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 944 
