50955 
• 
SEC:itET 
-4-
Considerations: 
This action should be seriously considered only if we are 
determined to use all possible means to obtain removal of Soviet 
troops. 
1:Jhile it should be possible with adequate consultation and 
preparation to obtain a substantial majority for further political 
and economic sanctions to hl3lp bring about the withdrawal of Soviet 
troops, it would be difficult to-obtain the necessary 2/3 majority 
for authorization of the use of armed force. 
(7) Seek a resolution in.the 
and consular relations with Guba 
·unction with 5 or 11 . · 
Considerations: 
sever all di lomatic 
ossible onl in con-
This would be consistent with general U.S. policy to increase 
the isolation of Cuba, but contrary to some present policies 
encouraging the maintenance of certain diplomatic missions in Cuba. 
Although we could probably obtain the necessary 2/3 vote for 
such action (particularly·if couched as a recommendation) it would 
be stoutly resisted by Mexico and Brazil and opposed by Chile, 
Bolivia and Uruguay, whose contrary arguments would have some appeal. 
Probably no more than maximum of 15 votes could be obtained 
for this. 
(8) Seek a resolution in the COAS/OC to sever all economic. 
and commercial relations and all communications with Cuba. 
(probably possible only in conjunction with (5) or (11). · 
Considerations: 
The severance of all economic and commercial relations would 
go beyond our current embargo on trade with Cuba which provides 
for the exception on humanitarian grounds of the export from the 
U.S. to Cuba of certain foods, medicines, and medical supplies. 
Such action would expose us to charges of inhumanity and would 
probably nullify ouz: public statements that we have no quarrel 
with the Cuban peop~e. 
A number of telecommunications between Laiin America and 
Europe are routed through Cuba. Prohibition of these services 
would interrupt communications vital to many of our Latin American 
friends. Further, U.S. communications with Cuba should.be main­
tained to facilitate the transmission of messages in the national 
interest and those for humanitarian reasons. 
These 
SECRET 
Docid:32276061 Page 107 
