13-00000 
f. 
f 
i ....... , 
• 
RESTRICTED 
SECRECY AGREEMENT 
. • • i. I. h!(Lff( a,utt Mc <1n:AE . understand that .by virtue of ml' duties .in 
the Central In elligence Agency, I~ be the recipient of information and lntel­
lig,orice which concerns the present. and future security of the. lhlited States and 
which.belongs·. to the United States. · This information and intelligence, together 
wit_,h the methods of collecting and handling it, are classified according to • 
security standards set by ·the Central Intelligence Agency~ I have read and under­
stand the provisions of the Act of Congress of June 15, 1917 (Espionage Act), as 
amended, concerning the disclosure of information relating to.the National. Defense 
• and I am familiar with the penalties provided for violation thereof. 
2. I. agree that I do not· now, nor shall I eyer pos·sess any right, interest, 
title or.claim inor to any of the inforina.tion or intelligence or the methods of 
collecting or.han~ling of it which has come or shall come to my attention by 
virtue of my. connection with the Central Intelligenc~ Agency, but shall al.ways 
·recognize the property right of the United States of America in and to such· matters. , • 
·3. I do solemnly swear that I will never divulge, publish nor reveal either 
by word, conduct, or by any other means such classified information, intelligence 
or knowledge, except in the performance of my official. duties and in accordance 
with the laws of the United States, unless specifically authorized in writing in 
each case by the Director of Central Intelligence. 
4. I understand that,no change-in my assignment or employment will relieve 
me· of my obligation under this oath and that the provisions of this oath will 
remain binding upon me. even after the termination of my services with the United 
States. 
•;. 
--s. I understand that my ,employment by the Centl"1,1). Intelligence Agency is 
conditioned upon my understanding of and strict compliance with "Security Regula-
tions CIA", and the appendices thereto. • • 
6. I take this obligation freely, .without any mental reservation or pur­
pose of evasion. 
In witness whereof I have set my hand and seal this 4-'~~ of ,~Vltd'f 19 • S :f. 
,vh ~atM 
Witnessed by me this/ d~ of ~ • 19 ~ 
at WASHINGTONi 0, C. ~ 
FOllt IO. ,._,, 
OCT .uao. 
RESTRICTED 
( Seal)" 
