532 ORGANIZED CRIME AND ILLICl'f NARCOTICS 
state what he was retiring from. I1 "\pril lD",, ·wairs hotly was 
:found in his home. Ile had been hruta en and his throat h::td 
been slashed. "\Ve lmvc never <liscovered {.;ho the murderers were, nor 
have we determined their moti,·e. Perhaps ,ran was murdered be­
cause the killers le::trned he had admitted tlrnt he was Trnfflcante's 
partner in illegal gambling, and that he disrlosed confidential facts 
about the :Mafia. 
In 1DG0, SergC'ant de In, Liana obtrtincd-from a confidential son 
oi known reliability-an astounding report about the :\[afia and its op­
eration in T:unpa. The rPport had been obtained from Charles "\Vall 
in 1D45, approximately G months ::dter Trallicnnte, Senior, had made 
himself a partner in "\Valls' ,gambling enterprises. · 
·wall declared tlwt from 1920 through l!H!S he eontrnlled gambling 
in Tampa and in the Florida counties of Ilillsliornug-h, Pinellas, Pasco, 
Hernando_, Polk, nnd Orange. His rivn.l for rnntrol of the grunb1ing 
rackets was· the local nfoffa organization. This was headed, he said, 
by Santo Tmlllrante, Sr.,the Diecidue brother:-, ,TnmPs Lnmia, Ignacio 
Antinori and Salvatore Hn,li:mo. A.ntinori was mnnkred on October 
22, 19-10; Lnmia "·as murdered on ,Jnne 5, 1950; allll Italiano fled to 
Mexico in 1951. 
"\Vall admitted that he lrncl good reasons for going along with Trnffi­
canle, Senior, in 11)45; previously the Mafia group had made three at­
tempts on his life: the f-irst \Yasin 1!);37 as ,van was leaving a bank on 
the main street in Tampa; the second try occurred as "\Vall was leaving 
the garage behind his house; the third, in Hl40, happened a few blocks 
from his honse. In the third attempt, a truck passed the automobile in 
which ,Vall "·as riding and then stopped abruptly in front of the cnr. 
James DeSimone and Nicola Impostato, FBI No. 2716GD2, each armed 
·with a shotgun, Etepped from the trnr.k and fired at ,van and his 
chauffeur. B0th escaped with slight injuries. neSirnone and Impo­
stato were known l\Iaf-ia killers from Kansas City, Mo. They were 
strtying with the. Antinori family at the time. 
The CnAIR)IAN. Is "\Vall still living? 
1\fr. BROWN. No, sir; he was killed. 
The C1u1muN. Later killed? 
1\fr.BRoWN. Yes,sir. 
The Cn.\IR)L\N. These three attempts failed but later he ,vas killed? 
1\fr. BRowN. Yes, sir. 
"\Vall clecl:trcd that the l\fafia tried to make the pnblic beliern that 
the org'.1-nization no longer existe_d in this conn try and thrtt Mafia_ mem­
bers pomted to the end of terrorism among Itrtlt:111 groups as evidence 
that the Mafia was gone from the underworld sce11e. ,van believed, 
l~owever, thn.t: the organization had merely changed its type of opera­
t10n. He said that other, racketeers had once used the Mafia to 
monopolize rackets in major American cities. They had educated the 
i\fafia so ,vell in the process that the Sicilians had taken over the rackets 
themselves. "\Vall stated that the l\:foJi.a learned to consider extortion 
from Italian businessmen :t "nickel-and-dime" business. They had 
discovered that public ollicials could be corrupted by bribery and that 
they could organize to trtke over the major rackets in the United States. 
"\,Vall declared that the nfafia was not dying out, but "was bigger 
and better than ever." He said that his partner,the elder Trnfficante, 
had told him that there were some 10,000 active l\Iafia members in 
the United States. Wall stated that the 1\fafia leader in Tampa was 
NW 50955 Docid:32423630 Page 672 
ORGANIZ 
~anto Trafliea1 
0 ~ tlie organiz: 
trips of tlie wo, 
lit the U11iterl ~ 
n sizable Sicili 
liy ,rosPph Prot 
of the lllajor J, 
Frank Costelk 
nwmbers of ti 
Luciano were fc 
. ~\ccording to 
tmct groups, ai.: 
was tltat onlv 
"·]1ile America, 
"all was told 
"out er"' to "illn 
even though he 
were. not d11e·to­
can birth, but l: 
of the pro<'eeds < 
to keep the ll!P 
Senator l\frrs 
inner circle, Chi, 
. Mr. BnowN . .1. 
circle. 
Delowthat­
Senator MusK 
Mr. BnowN. I 
be i ri the inner ci 
The CuArn::1u; 
the Tampa area i: 
:Mr.BnowN. T 
The CJJAIR:-.r. 1 : 
l\Ir.Hnowx. :N 
The CnAm11u; 
organization ·is se1 
Mr. BnowN. Tl 
. The CuA1mr., :-; 
1t, but who was ,1 
Mr. BnowN. T 
The CHAIRMAx 
( At this point ~ 
Mr. BROWN. ,v 
from 1930 thron (T. 
ano, James Lui-;; 
'l'homas, nnd Frn 
le!l'dership of Trat 
"' all that Vince 11 
Diecidues but that 
had Joseph Profac 
Senn.tor l\fus10E 
Mr. BnowN. Ye~ 
Senator Mus10F 
any point in this 1; 
