13-00000 
. . 
4. How do"oailview the job of AR.RB Executive Director? What role do you antidpate 
playing in the selection of ARRB Executive Director and staff? . ·, 
I consider the Executive Director to be the ARRB •s chief adrninturator and , 
coordinator of all functions of the panel The Executive Director should be die day­
io-day admiuisttator of the staff and the administrator of all activities of the ARRB. 
I envision die Executive DiteetoI'playing an important coordination role with olhcr 
federal agencies. • ., 
I andoipate playing a ro~ in the selection of the Executive Director. The position u::::: 
critical to the effectiveness of the AR.RB and I would like to use my considerable 
xecmi1ing md hmng experience to help choose the best availab~ staff. ; • 
..... ~-DI. POUCYISSUES -~: ' 
j 
... _J ,: 
L Have you made any public statements-· oralor written- ~g the asasstu3tio~ 
of President Kennedy o" tbt public atrailtbility of government records regarding this 
assassination? Please explain. and provide copies of any relevant material 
I have made no written or oral public statements regarding the Kennedy 
assassination or the assassination records. 
2. Members of the .ARBB will be examining security classified records with a view to 
their declassification and pubUc disclosure, In whol_e or In part, at some time in the 
future. 
a) Can you describe what prior experience yon have had, if any; with usine or 
evamining security classified records of the Federal Government? 
I have no prior experience with ming or examining secmity classified ·records 
of the federal government . I have, however, considenble experience handling 
documents protected by state confidentiality laws .. 
b) What do you think of our current security.classification system? For example, 
• would you say it operates well, bas integrity; and serves the public Interest? 
·.The security classification system has g~y well served the public interest 
throughout the period in which the Cold War placed significant constraints on 
sharing infoxmation. We have entered a new era and my understaliding is that 
a comprehensive review is now underway that will likely result in significant 
revisions and the development _of a less restrictive system of security 
classification. Such a comprehensive re\'iew is a positive development. 
