13-00000 
SECRET 
• As a result of such flaps, CIA has little recourse but to accede to direct demands that 
we cease using a given country's documentation, which narrows our range of options 
for providing officers with operational aliases. 
⇒B) Federal and state documents 
(Social security cards, FAA documentation, driver's licenses, birth certificates) 
e) (C) Potential threat to CIA 's agreements with other US government entities. 
At present, sixteen states assist CIA in providing documentation for alias identities, 
including drivers licenses. There is an unwritten understanding with each that CIA will do 
all it can to protect the confidentiality of this agreement. Although the immediate damage 
from release of this would certainly be less severe than the harm done to US diplomatic 
relations from the release of information on passport forgery, these arrangements could be 
terminated if they receive too much publicity and.state officials or politicians were publicly 
embarrassed. 
• Termination of any of such agreements would curtail CIA's options for providing its 
officers with solid cover. 
==>c) and D) Business documents. 
(either forged or produced with prior negotiated agreement) 
(Rotary club, record and book club membership, AAA, specific bank cards, travel club, 
Continental Insurance Co.) 
b) Litigation from private sector firms; 
. c) Potential damage to a growing intelligence collection method; and 
d) Potenti~ physical danger to CIA officers and assets. ' 
b) (C) Litigation from private sector firms. The same probability of litigation 
applies to both forged documents and those produced with the permission of certain 
companies. Many of these firms conduct business abroad in a variety of political 
environments that.range from friendly to hostile. For reasons relating to loss of revenue 
and physical threats to their employees and other assets, they cannot afford to have even 
the public hint of an association with CIA, let alone official disclosure of this fact. 
• The likelihood of litigation from such disclosure would be high. CIA's Office of 
General Counsel has on file a number of letters from private sector firms setting forth 
their right to take legal action in the event of the disclosure of their relationship with 
CIA. 
• In the past, some firms have taken legal action against CIA for disclosure of an 
association that adversely affected their business. 
SECRET 
4 
