13-00000 
5Ji2CRE'f' 
SUBJECT: The JFK Declassification Experience 
damage to national security." Subsequently, a central 
manageme'nt focal point was es.tablished in the Off ice of 
Information Management and a system that addresses part of 
the indexing goal and, with its mandatory declassification 
"metrics" (millions of pages of released documents), 
modulates some of the outside criticism alleging that CIA 
is reneging on "openness." 
23. • (AIU◊) What is missing is a Year 2000 look at 
secrecy. When the FOIA law was passed and the Agency was 
traumatized by receipt of 150 public requests a day for 
information, we were able to make case law in the courts and 
protect sensitive sources and methods by non-arbitrary an..9 
non-capricious use of allowed exemptions. It is obvious 
today that a more forward-thinking strategy than the ~nQ 
comment" of the 1950s an_d the "answer the question only as 
asked" of the 1970s is needed - the JFK experience 
demonstrated both the counterproductive result of an all-or­
nothing defense and that credibility and compromise can be 
gained without current sensitivity loss. And the fact that 
Chairman Porter Goss has joined-with Senator Moynihan in 
proposing the existence of an outside group on the model of 
the JFK Assassination Review Board as arbiter in the 
government declassification arena is a very clear signal. 
24. (AIUO) In my view (and as was the case, briefly, 
in the past), this extremely complicated, frustrating, and 
ubiquitous topic requires the personal attention of the 
Executive Director with "corporate" Agency focused g'uidance 
to the Deputies for their personal attention and policy_ 
guidance to the IROs. And because the IROs, as the 
implementors of their Deputies' policies, determine the 
credibility and resource impact levels, they should be 
supergrades and experienced in at least two directorates. 
25. (AIUO) The eventual development of a credible 
association with the JFK ARRB was a function of: (1) the 
patience and diplomacy of the HRP/JFK Project Officer, 
Barry Harrelson and (2) the presence, on site, of the DO 
team, without whom this exercise could not have been 
completed. Ironically, as is so often the case when an 
individual or group is between a rock and a hard pl~ce, 
as the DO team was between the DO desk officers, the DO/IRO, 
and the HRP reviewers, there were allegations of their having 
9 
