Withheld Data· in JF 
After President John F. Kennedy· 
was struck down on Nov. 22, 1963, the 
Central InteJUgence . received 
evidence suggesting that ban Pre-
mier Fidel Castro arranged the assassi­
nation in retaliation for attempts on 
his life. 
Yet sources privy to the secret dis­
cussions at the highest levels of the 
CIA during those hectic days now tell 
us that the CIA deliberately withheldl 
the evidence from the Warren Com­
mission investigating Kennedy's death. 
Our sources cite two reasons for 
holding back th.m evidence. One was a 
resolve to cover up the secret that the 
CIA had enllsted Mafia mobsters to kill 
Castro. 
There also was a legitimate concern 
that the • Castro revelations might in­
flame the American people, whose 
grief could have turned into a terrible 
wrath that might have precipitated 
some rash action. 
Only a few key people knew about 
the CIA plot to assassinate Castro. One 
was Attorney General Robert F. Ken­
nedy, who was his brother's personal 
watchdog over the CIA. It has now 
been established that Robert Kennedy 
was briefed on May 7, 1962, about the 
attempt to use underworld killers to 
knock off Castro. 
Two days later, Robert Kennedy cau­
tioned the CIA not to go ahead with 
the assassination without consulting 
him. Since Robert Kennedy rode herd 
on the CIA, it must be assumed that he 
was kept advised of subsequent assassi­
nation attempts. However, there is no 
documentary evidence of this. 
Records now available show that 
Robert Kennedy informed FBI chief J. 
Edgar Hoover of the plot on May 10, 
1962. Yet neither Kennedy nor Hoover 
later divulged this important informa­
. tion to the Warren Commission. • • 
Of course, various CIA officials also 
knew about the assassination scheme. 
Not the least of them was the late CIA· 
chief Allen W. Dulles, who approved 
the original plan. He later served on 
the Warren Commmission, yet he sat 
silently throughout the investigation 
without mentioning the Cuban angle. 
• Within hours of President Kenne­
dy's death, the U.S. embasw cabled in­
formation from Mexico City suggest- • 
ing that the Cubans may have been be­
hind the assassination. Out sources say 
that the .CIA developed similar infor­
mation in Washington. 
The first person to reach Robert J Kennedy's side after the shooting was 
CIA Director John A. McCone, who re­
mained alone with the Attorney Gen­
eral at his· McLean, Va., home for 
nearly three hours. • 
McCone swore to us that Castro's 
name wa.s never mentioned during the 
three hours. But CIA records show 
that the next day. McCone not only 
mentioned Castro to the new Presi­
dent, Lyndon B. Johnson, but briefed 
him on the information from Mexico 
City. 
Yet no one brought the Cuban 
connection to the attention of the War­
ren Commission. We were the first to 
get word of the anti-Castro plot to . 
Chief Justice Earl Warren, the com­
mission chairman, four years later. 
We are now free to reveal our role 
in the drama. Two of our confidential 
sources, CIA agent William Harvey 
• and mobster John Rosselli, are dead. A 
third source, attorney Edward P. Mor-
--·-._:__ __ , _D_R_o_P(_H_J'T_s_· • _____ \_,.__ __ 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 452 
·p he 
gan, ha.s waived the confidentiality we 
had promised him. . • 
• Morgan told us in January, 1987, 
. about the CIA-Mafia assassination plot 
against Castro. He raised the possibil­
ity that the plot could have back:fired1 
against President Kennedy. There 
were suspicious circumstances, he 
pointed out, indicating that Castro 
may have learned of the attempts on 
his life and may have retaliated 
against Kennedy. • • 
Morgan refused to identify his 
sources because it would have violated 
the attorney-dient privilege. But he 
was an attorney of such stature that 
we didn't doubt his word. He had been 
chief inspector of the FBL He bad di­
rected the historic congressional inves­
tigation of the Pearl Harbor bombing. 
Later, he ran the investigation into the 
excesses of the late Sen. Joseph McCar-
thy. • 
. We got Morgan's permission. tol write a cautious story. We confirmed 
the general outlines from a CIA 
source. Then on March 3, 1987, we 
wrote that Robert Kennedy "may have 
approved an assassination plot, which 
then possibly backfired against his late 
brother." , · . 
The next day, according to records' now available, Kennedy's secretary 
called for a copy of the May 7, 1962, 
memo, which summarized the briefing 
he had received on the assassination 
plot. • · 
On March 7, 1967, we reported more 
details. "A reported CIA plan in 1963 to 
assassinate Cuba's Fidel Castro," we 
wrote, " ... may have resulted in a 
counterplot by Castro to assassinate 
President Kennedy." . .. 
Hv Howard l'o.~I 
• 
,I 
. ·, , 
i 
