NW 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
6.A 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
PART II 
-SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .AND PUBLIC CONT.ACTS 
Requesting authority for release 
a. By teletype 
.At least four hours before the time of release, developments in the 
case, an outline of the release, and statement release will be made 
UACB are to be furnished the Bureau. 
b. By telephone where time is of essence 
Confer with division head having supervision of the matter for 
investigative clearance and with the office of the division he~d of 
the Crime Records Division for final .press clearance. While good 
judgment mus-t prevail, in important cases in which a local newspaper 
d~adline is approaching, it may be advisable to telephone the Bureau 
for clearance. 
Press releases are to be made personally only by .. the SAC or in his absence 
by the AS.AC. 
Releases are to be made both at headquarters and the local area affected 
by developmen_-_ts. All material prepared for the public must be reviewed 
word :for word. :i:t is not to contain words or phra.ses which might be 
regarded as objectionable or offensive to a member of any race, creed, or. 
religious sect. Thorough advance planning should be utilized ,wherever 
possible, and all press releases should be coordinated to e·liminate any 
avoidable delays. • 
In the absence of an .overriding consideration· bearing on the public: interest, 
no statement should be put in an announcement to the press-- to, the effect • 
that a subject either has confessed or has admitted his crimes without 
specific Bureau approval. In case of doubt, consult the Bureau. When 
the fact that a su-bject has given a confession is included in a·: complaint 
and an inquiry is forthcoming from the press, a "no comment" _reply should 
be given. The complaint is a court record and must. be left·to speak for 
itself. -
On-the-spot announcements by SAC are authorized in emergency--situations 
in which good judg!Ilent so dictates. Emergency on-the-spot-statements by 
Agents limited to their official identity and, if known, t_he· identity of 
fugitive or criminal in- gun battle.· If badly wanted fugitive apprehended 
in remote area and SAC absent, Agent may, in rare emergen·cy- only and where 
time of essence, furnish bare details. Contact by SAC with press should 
be effected immediately where press desires further details.:. . 
In the normal process of issuing press releases,[either local or national, 
S.ACs may, when requested, make personal appearances for television and radio, 
provided no interviews are conducted and there- is absolutely.no elaboration 
over and above the original press release. These conditions shquld be made 
known in advance to television and radio station representatives when such 
requests are received.] • 
In the absence of special circumstances, Bureau Agents should.hever suggest 
vr request a reporter or another representative of a newspaper or similar 
publication to withhold the publication of news. In the event that special 
c'ircumstances do exist, it will be necessary_ to clear wt th the Bureau prior 
to making any such request. . 
In cases involving bombings having an apparent racial or.religious basis 
with the resultant public interest, the SAC should issue a statement to 
the press indicating the SAC has arrived at the scene or is en route to 
actively assist local investigative authorities, _·making available to them 
every possible cooperative service of the FBI, including the Bureau's full 
laboratory and identification facilities, to further assist them by handling 
out-of-state leads, and to take charge of all investigative efforts that 
may indicate any Federal violation . .At no time-should this statement 
indicate that the criminal act is obviously outside the investigative 
jurisdiction of the FBI nor should full investigative responsibility for 
the incident be either assumed or declared. The issuance of .this state­
ment requires prior Bureau approval in every such instance, and the 
Bureau should be contacted telephonically and furnished known·facts of 
the incident so a prompt statement can be authorized. 
Copies of Bureau press releases to be placed in case file and press 
release file if exists. 
la 
12-27-65 
Docld:32989529 Page 293 
( 
( 
