., 
/ 
~~-;;rri'tle the .toregoi-ng discussion portrays the t?/pes o.t· coverage 
c,ff6rded '!lnder. instant program, it by no means describes the_ .ful 1 
c.x.tent of our cover,2Qe o./ fri enclly foreign officials and establ z'shrzents •. 
J,..,or e:;~ac;pl e, the C.01>£ WOC\0 produces volwninou.,s intel.1 igenc·e data 
on these officials and establ isliments. Under the Intensification 
pro;:r:an, as 1 ong ago as 6-9-53, s~•ic Letter 53-41 instructed the field 
io scrutiriize caref[-~lly any associations and contacts between Soviet 
personnel and diplomatic representat ive3 of• other countries where there 
ere indications thc,t-. a person is being singled, out for specific 
at tent iono .:l case of this lia~ure was developed when a Soviet cultural 
(tttu..che in 1953 attempted to develop as agents for the Soviets two 
Iranian officials, one of whom we subsequently turned into a Bureau 
double agent. (65-6Jl 1J-5) lfncZer the program involving name checks by 
the .C?ureau, and other intelligence agencies on all foreign governnent 
o./licials entering the U,; s., we have the benefit of derogatory 
in.formation, on friendly foreign officials at the time they enter the 
U. s,, This con.st itutes a type o.f coverage h.,t1Jidl ed, not as a part of 
captioned prograr-, but CJ,S a seP,arate program in itself. 
Conclusions. 
t 
Our program concerned wi·th intelligence coverage of fri encl] y 
foreign countries is operating effectively and efficiently. On a 
cont i1nling bas is, it produces in.format ion of value to our investigative 
req_uf7~ei:~entsJ to our in tel 1 igence requirements, and for budget purposes. 
For the most partJ the prograr:i consists of a coordination of accepted 
investigative and in.tell igence procedures for the purpose of proper 
direction: redirection zuhen indicated, and administrative controls. 
It has not required any over-all increase in manpower. 11·rom our 
current .analysis, no changes are indicated at this time •. 
An in.formative menorandv.,r;-2 has been prepared for supervisors 
in the llational ities Intell.igence Section, where all coverage of 
friendly foreign nations is handled, in order that they may be aUXJ,re 
of the continuing need for coordination of this program and alert to 
any redirection which might increase its efficiency or improve our 
coverage. 
- 12 -
Page 
