\ 
/' S-E-C-R-E-T 
NO ,FOREIGN DISSE:\f/N'O DIS'--_,.,~1 ABROAD/C0:.'.1.'TROLLED DISSE:.~,/:dACKGROUh'TI USE ONLY 
- 2 - CSDB-3/652,924 
·wool and silk material) and many trifles of which the stores 
in Habana- are full. As for machinery and spare parts, /ehin~7 
.is not in a position to compete with that merchandise supplied 
by ~ha USSR, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland. 
In substancb Castro, even if he cannot exactly be defined 
as pro-Khrushchev, is tied to the USSR in such a way that he 
cannot for any reason release himself. I recall in this· 
regard that on 2 November, after the visit of U Thant during 
the most acute moment of the crisis in Cuban-Soviet relations, 
he declared, "We are above all Marxist-Leninists and friends 
of the USSR. There will be no breaches in our relations." . 
. 
Given this, I feel that the statements of the vice director 
of TASS as reported by the Embassy in Helsinki are a ·good 
resume :of the situation, i.e., a) Soviet leaders have for 
some time· felt perplexed with regard to Castro's character 
and person because he is reluctant to be "guided" docilely by 
Moscow. b) The VSSR will continue to give all its economic 
support t6 Cubn because otherwise its prestige would suf£er a 
grave ,blow particularly in Latin America. 
2) Aiso excluded, it appears to me, is the possibility that 
::he r(•vulnt ionary regime of Castro can be changed into. a 
"T."itcus:~·• regime. It is comprehensible that, as Ambassa,dor· 
Zoppi reported, some "non--aligned" countries and even soi:!1e 
• :i:.:a t.in Am<!rican countries desire· such a change and ·are doing 
every~~hir~g possible to provoke it. It is also possible that 
some Cub .. ns share these sentiments. But, in my opinion, it 
is Lmpos~ibl~ that such a change can take place while Castro 
is in power. Aa I pointed out in my previous report, it is 
not in ·cas_tt·o 's temperament to become "non-aligned",· to 
imi. tat.::, 2..nyone, and even less to· take Ti to as a model. 
'.:'h(·:refor1:i Cas-:ro would have to be eliminated, and this 
possibility se0ms very remote. 
3) As I noted in my 9 November.report it is difficult for 
Cijstro to remain calm. Therefore the revolutionary regime 
will conti?lue with all .means at its disposition to disseminate 
!:',ubvers ive propaganda in the whole continent, as demonstrated 
by the fact that all the states of Latin America (including -
Mexico) are taking strong measures against the dissemination 
of this propfganda. But it is doubtful that today Castro can 
do much more and that he coiratitutes a real menace to the 
.security of other countries, ff only because he lacks the 
neces~ary funds. I tend to share t~e opinion of the 
Ambassador to Bra~il that the Cuban leaders are trying to 
concentrate all their subversiv~ efforts in on~ country, and 
that they have selected Venezuela for vari6us reasons, includ­
ing the old ill feeling between Castro and Betancourt. I note 
in passing ~hat, according to what was told me by the afore­
mentioned Ambassador, ·during the recent meeting of the OAS the 
-Venezuelan representative accused the Cubans of promoting the· 
recent attempts in his country but, when asked to furnish 
proof, he was unable to do so. 
It ~ould certainly.be highly desirable if a serious 
pressure action on Cuba could be exercised within a purely 
Latin American framework as pointed out by our Embassy in 
,jt~ • 
, '· -E-C-R-E-T 
' 1 NO FOREIGN DISSEM/.NO DiSSEM ABROAD/CO:N'"TROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE O!--l"LY 
NW 50955 Docld:32276061 Page 122 
• I 
