13-00000 
.. 
( 
, : • ~ ... •:' 
. '··' 
period. The key military, political and economic targets were 
clearly defined and assiduously pursued by TFW. Tha immense 
pressure of time mu~t continuously be borne in mind if the attack 
on the Cuban problem is to be. granted its full perspective. Even 
before TFV/ assumed responsibility for collection against.Cuba, 
it was clear that intelligence on Soviet, Satellite and Chinese­
Communist CUban policy and maneuvers would be formulated and 
planned at.the highest level in the respective governments. 
Equally clear was the fact that the clandestine search for in­
sights into the Cuban policies of these governments would enjoy 
only as much success as the clandestine search for any intelligence 
regarding any policies·of these governments. Time restrictions 
alone ruleaout the hope that _adequate coverage of these kE:lY • 
denied area targets could be achieved. As- a consequence, every_· 
facet of the TFW collection program was geared to the search for 
top priority Cuban intelligence; from sources in the free world 
and on the island every agent or agent candidate was evaluated in_ 
terms of his nccessto such·intelligence. Translated into 
espionage terms, this meant that every agent or candidate was 
examined sharply to determine whether and how he could help 
penetrate the GOC, the Cuban armed forces or the managerial and 
policy levels of the Cuban economy. Below is an account of the 
success of this effort; it will be seen that most major target 
areas were under direct,· specific assault. 
b. Political. 
. • ~ 
1. Cu@an Communist Party: 0 In late May a clos\relative 
and confidant of the . Chief of the CUban Communist Party was 
singled out and developed by a Cuban principle age~t. he 
candidate provided highly valuable information throughout the 
summer of 1962. ·Though the information was obtained indirectly 
by the agent it was but a portion of what he could produce. Thus 
the ultimate aim of.the operation was to effect the candidate's 
direct recruitment. The drive toward this goal continues, and 
though we are optimistic that the 6 months effor.t thus far in­
vested will result in ·the direct recruitment of a high-level 
(Communist Party)member, it would be inaccur,te to say that as of 
the close of the reporting period, the~artyJhad been penetrated 
at a·significant level. ~q • 
2. GOC Ruling Circle. 
(a). In May 1962 TF\11 spotted a Cuban legal 
traveller whose brother-in-law has been a member of the GOCr· 
fro~ its inception. The agent was recruited under specific 
instructions to attempt to induce his relative to report on GOC 
policy matters. Though TFW had only 12 hours with the agent 
""' ..,., 
, .'I--, 
• • . • • i :,;1:ic 
' . :···:/ 
t --~. ·• • .. • ,j ' ..... , .... _ 
