[6E - G] - P.ART II -
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACfS 
3. Auxiliary offices are to advise the office of origin by letter of the 
results obtained through a circular letter. Office of origin should 
summarize the results in its next report. 
4. One copy of the circular letter is to be filed. A list of addressees is to 
be attached. Upon the receipt .of a reply, the addressee 1·s riame is to be 
checked to indicate this fact. Replies which are entirely negative 
should not be filed unless there is reason for doing so. Only negative 
replies are to be destroyed after handling in accordance with item 3 
above, Sub-A files may be used when the number of replies to be filed 
is large, 
5. A 66 file may be opened to retain copies of circular le·tters distributed 
in order to facilitate the handling of incoming inquiries and replies. 
Only one copy of each circular letter is to be filed therein. If the 66 
file is maintained, the material therein is to be destroyed after it is a 
year old if it is no longer needed, 
6. Circular letters and other information to be ~istributed of released to 
thE;i public must be so worded as to be uno'bj_ection~ble to ·a;ny rac.e., .cre~d, 
or religion.- . • 
7. Trade publications may, with advance Bureau approval, be used to· publ.icize 
information concerning fugitives known to be active in particular trades, 
businesses, or professions. The field office where the publication is 
located should check its indices concerning the p.ublication, as well as 
the person or persons who will have to be contacted, before seeking Bureau 
approval, and sufficient identifying data should be furnished so that an 
appropriate Bureau indices check may be made, ·- . ' . . 
F, • RADIO BRO.ADC.AS TS 
Radio broadcasts without advance Bureau approval may be made in.hot~pursuit 
fugitive cases. Gare must be exercised in broadcasting a license number·. 
b'ej:i·e_y.~d. _ils.~d by_ f'ugi-ti-ve_._as :i:t_-~8:Y b'e __ <'.l,ispos_e_q. of to an .inno·cent t-hird per-
G. 
son. 
FIELD OFFICE Lii3~S • • 
1. Law enforcement o·fficials . . . 
On March 1 of each year ali field offic~s s~ail forward to the Burea¥ 
a communication pertaining to a list of law enforcement officials and 
agencies whose ·cooperation might be helpful. One of the two following 
procedures should be used: • . .. • . . . . •. 
a. (1) On M?,rch 1 of ea.ch year all field offices shall forward to 
the Bureau in duplicate, and. with a space left between the of­
ficials of ea.ch Department, the list described above. Indicate 
by an asterisk any change which was not previously called 
to ihe Bureau's attention. • 
+• " 
. .. c· 
!
al Chiefs of police 
b Sheriffs 
c State police or highway p?,trol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
d U, s. Marsha.ls and deputies 
e Ranking Federal law enforcement officers 
f Wardens of penal institutions 
g District attorneys or county prosecutors 
h Railway police (if desirable) 
·i Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins 
j Any other officials who receive identification orders 
(2) Changes in the list are to be reported in duplicate to the 
Bureau as ~hey occur. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 250 
3a 
8-27-73 
( 
