r I 
l ! 
I i 
I l. 
I· 
I i. 
l i 
t· 1 
l I l ! 
I 
}. 
l 
I' I ! 
( 
( 
[ 
( 
SEC'.:ION 107. 
-
SECURITY INFORMANTS AkID CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 
-
1070.-R 
Q.. CORRECTIVE ACTION ON FALSE INFORMATION 
R. 
1. When it is aetermined that informant or ex-informant furnished false informa­
tion while informant,. promptly advise Bureau of complete facts. 
2. Set for·th ·your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing. 
informant in future, such as: "informant of known unreliability 11 or 
"informant-who has :furnished both reliable and unreliable information in 
the past." 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
s. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with review of 
all data furnished by individual and label information from him accor'dingly. 
All communications containing information from informant which have been 
disseminated to Bureau, other Bureau offices, and to outside agencies 
must be corrected. 
Identify cases individually by title and character, together W?-tb. dates 
of communications containing information. 
If information was used in reports, corrective letters sho11ld be crystal 
clear and refer ~o specific report, page number, and change_ to be made. 
Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by Bureau in 
accordance with part II, section 4, of Y~nual of Rules and- Regulations. 
Corrective action should be called to attention of other Bureau offices, 
outside agenctes, and Bureau by letter. • 
Instruct each interested Bureau office which has made further dissemina­
tion of information to follow instructions set forth above. 
Set up control file regarding this corrective action, and upon completion 
of same submit to Bureau final letter under informant's caption identifying 
each case by title, character, Bureau file, where known, a;1.d 9-ate of com­
munication. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files 
to see that necessary corrective action has been taken. 
If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
informant should also be requested to submit summary letters showing what 
corrections have bee~ made. 
All information from informant must be correctly labeled and. great car~ 
must be taken to see that· this is done. 
Occasionally, ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions raises 
a doubt as to his reliability subseg_uent to time he was informant. It 
is not necessary to go back and change evaluation of information attributed 
to that individual in absence of definite indication that ·informant·furnished 
unreliable information while he was informant. 
Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability and 
known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, section 5, 
Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assignm~nt of. symbols . 
a. A symbol number should be assigned from the time any step is taken 
to develop an individual as a confidential source. 
b. Advise Bureau by[secure teletype (Nitel))giving name, address, business 
affiliation, symbol number, reason for assigning symbol number and 
brief statement concerning type of information furnished. ' 
c. Abbreviation ncs0 may be used in intra-Bureau communications for 
confidential source; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS." Communications relating 
to espionage and foreign nationality matters should ~n addition 
have a character indicating country involved; e.g., IS·- R. 
d, When permanent symbol has been assigned to confidential s~urce, 
abbreviation 11GS 11 is to-appear before symbol number; e.g., CS NY 000-S. 
e. Numbers assigned to con:!:'idential sources are to be tak~n ~rom series 
of numbers used for security, extremist, and criminal inform~nts.· 
1726 
21 
8-14-72 
