il 
February 5, 1960. 
LOCAL 038 
< INTERNATIONAL BROTi-IERIIOOD OF TEAVISTERS, 
·fCI-IAUFFEURS, AND WAllEr:OU3ELillN OF .A1IERICA, 
Ali1L - . CIO 
ELECTIOH LArIS. 
I 
This matter involves the reported contributions by 
Local 688 to the political campaigns of Federal candidates. 
Most of the contributions involved were apparently raade from 
the political action committee account of Local 688. 
Contributions from such accounts would not normally constitute 
violations of Section 610, Title 18, U. s. Code; howev~r, 
with respect to this case, the Department by memorandum of 
December 14, 1959, stated.that it ha~ been advised by the 
U. s. Attorney in St. Louis that the political action committee 
· t fund o:;: Local 638 l\as actually a general fund of the union's 
which was raised from dues asses~ments and was not a fund derived 
from voluntary contributions., Section 610, Title 18, U. 3. Code, 
prohibits contributions by labor unions to the campaigns of 
Federal candidates. • 
On November 2, 1959, the U. 3. Attorney in St. Louis, 
Missouri, began subpoenaing a number of ~itnesses to appear 
before a Federal Grand Jury in Jt. Louis ·which conduqted an 
inquiry concerning the captioned mattero In conjunction with 
the Grand Jury's inquiry, the Bureau, at the specific requests 
of the u. S. Attorney and of the Civil Rights Division, 
conducted certain investigation for the assistance of the 
U.S. Attorney in presenting chis uatter to the Grand Jury. 
Our investigation included interviews w:Ltll Senator Wayne 
r,iorse (D.-Ore.), Senator Tho1aas Hennings (D. - 1Io.), 
Congress1Jan James Hoosevel t (D. - Calif.) and Congressman 
Henry 3. lleuss (D. - Wisc.). 
On January 27, 1960, u. s. Attorney Webst.er and 
Assistant U. ~3. Attorney Bigler, 3t 0 Louis, advised that.. on 
.January 26, 1960, they had sent a proposed indictment, together 
with a summary o:E the evidence, to the Department for its 
approval. They advised that they would like, if possible, to 
present the indictraent. to the Grand Jury in f3t. Louis on 
. February 3, 1960. The u. s. Attorney saicl that the proposed 
r 
indictment ...;loes not include a ci1arge against James R. ·Hoffa. 
He said tl1e evie1ence connectin[; Hof Ia with tl1e check. payable 
to the Con~ressuan Henry 8. neus::3 campaign seemed insufticient 
to support a charr;e aD;ainst Hoffa. These o£ficial3 mentioned 
that the propose(l· indictment incltH.'ie~ 21_ counts, ·involving 
10 poli·tical contributions. 
/ 
.f' / '. 
:/ !' . 
i._.~· 
