Robert M. McNamara, Jr., Esq. 
July 15, 1998 
Poge9 
In addition, the Final Declaration should confirm whether or not CIA has saved any 
1963-64 files of the Mexico City Station-(and certain files from another station). H those 
files have not been retained, please confirm that fact in the Final Declaration. To the 
extent those files have been archived, however, then please confinn that they have been 
exa~ed for the purpose of determining whether they contain assassination records. 
2. CIA Should Identify More Specifically the Records It Has Released 
Relating to Oswald and the Assassination of President Kennedy 
We recommend that CIA identify more specifically the CIA files that have been, or will 
be, placed in the JFK Collection at NARA. Although we.leave this to CIA's discretion, 
we recommend that, to the extent practicable, CIA attach a non-classified listing of the 
files encompassed within the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection. We believe that an 
identification of the files within the CIA-HSCA Sequestered Collection will demonstrate 
the breadth and variety of assassination records being made public by the QA. 
3. CIA Should Specifically Account for Certain Important Record Groups, 
Including: Any Destruction of Assassination Records 
. We request that CIA, in its Final Declaration, account for any important records 
regarding the assassination that may ru\ve been destroyed or that otherwise cannot be 
located. 
For example, CIA has reported that the original surveillance tapes that recorded the 
Oswald telephone conversations with the C~ban Consulate and Soviet Embassy in 
Mexico City were destroyed, and that CIA has no copies of these audio recordings; 
However, CIA apparently has preserved certain recordings from Mexico City that post­
date the assassination (see 1 A.2 of this letter). We assume that CIA will pro-ride a 
complete accounting for these records in its response to Review ·Board request CIA-IR-
15, which relates to CIA's "electronic take" from Mexico City for the relevant time 
period. That respo~ should be attached to the Final Declaration (CIA may also want 
to attach any formal explanation of this issue that it previously provided to the HSCA). 
We want to ensure that CIA explains the circumstances for the destruction of the audio 
recordings of the Oswald telephone calls in Mexico City, confirms that no copies of this 
audio surveillance has been retained by CIA, and gives a full accounting of the post-
•• assassination Mexico City tapes. 
We also request an accounting of certain records of former CIA Director John McCone. 
In reviewing his files, we noted that certain doC\lnlents on the assassination (or dated 
"t=:,V.a.V 
