13-00000 
PAGE 7 20/20 (ABC), August 27, 1993 
ANNOUNCER: For women in their 20's and 30's, Dr. Timothy Johnson has some 
shacking news - 'It Could Happen ta Yau.' 
Plus, can gay men be made straight? This therapist says he transforms 
homosexuals. This man once preferr~d men. Today, he's happy with his wife. 
JOHN STOSSEL, ABC News:· And now is sexuality an important part of your_ marriage. 
RICHARD COHEN, Nicolosi Patient: Oh, yes. We have good sex, if that's what 
you're asking. 
ANNOUNCER: Others claim treatment is helping them-
'ALEX,' Nicolosi Patient: Far the first time in my life, you know, 30 years of 
my life, I feel alive. 
ANNOUNCER: -but in the gay community, backlash. 
GAY HAN: This is not a disease. There's no such thing as a cure. 
ANNOUNCER: John Stossel brings you the hot debate over gay men. Are they 'Born 
or Bred?' Those stories tonight, August 27, 1993, after this brief message. 
[Commercial break] 
Case Closed 
BARBARA WALTERS: The Kennedy assassination was back in the headlines all this 
week when m,;Jre than 900,000 pages of previously classified government files were 
finally opened after nearly 30 years. And while close to half the current 
population wasn't even alive at the time, the controversy surrounding that event 
continues ta haunt us.all. 
The fact is a majority of Americans don't believe the Warren Commission, and do 
believe some form of conspiracy was involved. But now, a powerful new book 
claims to have the last ward. Its conclusion? Lee Harvey Oswald did indeed act 
alone. The book is titled Case Closed, but is it? 
Cvoice-overl Whatever side you' re an in this still-raging controversy, you 1 11 
want ta see Lynn She,rr•s report now. 
LYNN SHERR, ABC News: Cvoice-overl Na period in an American presidency has been 
as controversial, as thoroughly analyzed or as frequently written and speculated 
about as the final six seconds in Jahn f. Kennedy's life~ 
1st NEWSCASTER: C?l Three shots were fired at the President's motorcade as it 
passed out of the downtown area of Dallas. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl No detail about the final moments of the President's life 
has been spared scrutiny. Every eyewitness account, ~allistics test, photograph, 
medical conclUsion and investigative finding has been challenged, reinterpreted 
or dismissed, then woven into countless theories. for three ·decades! an already skeptical American public has been left wondering if we would ever earn the 
truth about what happened in Dealey Csp?l Plaza an November 22, 1963. 
iervices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
