( 
( 
SECTIOH 107 .• SEC. URITY INFORMANTS AUD CONFIDr ''UAL SOURCES. 
-- :· :-
i07H-I-J 
H. SYMBOLS 
1. Assigning numbers 
a. All informants should be designated by permanent symbol number of 
which Bureau must be advised. Once number assigned, it must not be 
subsequently reassigned to any other informant or so11rce. 
b. Potential security informants and confidential sources whose identity 
must be protected may be assigned perrr~nent symbol numbers if they are 
producing suffi-cient information to warrant use of such designations. 
c. Individuals to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be advised 
of such symbols. 
d. Cover name should be used by informant in signing his statements and 
in communications between informant and field office. Advise Bureau 
of cover name . 
e •. Prefix of symbol number consists of appropriate field office teletype 
abbreviation. Suffix of symbol number will consist of letter 11S 11 for 
security informant; letters "PSI" for potential security informant; 
letters "CS" for confidential source. • 
f. Although source may subsequently furnish informa.t.ion requiring change. 
in designation (e.g., from security to criminal or to racial, etc.), 
number previously assigned nill remain same; however, suffix is to 
be chan~ed to appropriate letter or letters indicating this change 
[ (NY 000-S to NY 000-C or to NY 000-R). . -
2. Communications - use of symbols • 
a. After Bureau is advised of permanent symbol, in subsequent communica­
tions true name _of informant should not be set forth; use symbol 
number. 
b. In all communications after initial le'tter, Bureau and field office 
file numbers for informant must be set forth. 
c. In communications between offices, follow same procedure. 
d. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis should be referred to in initial letter to 
interested office by true name and symbol number if necessary 
for other division to know identity. Office receiving such 
letter should make appropriate index cards for "Informants and 
Sources in Other Di visions" index. Subsequent letters between 
interested offices may then identify individual by symbol number 
only. 
(2) Individuals who leave division where they have been furnishing 
inforwntion and do not plan to return should be immediately 
discontinued, their symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name used in all administrative correspondence. 
(3) If informant is transferred to another office and-remains active, 
his identity must still be protected·. 
e. In corrnnunications concerning potential security informant when a 
symbol number is n.ot assigned, name of potential security informant 
and abbreviation "PSI" shall be used; e.g., "John Doe, PSI." 
f. In espionage and foreign nationality matters, caption of com~unica-
ti on should also show character and country designation (i.e., IS - R 
for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.}. This facilitates routing 
at Bureau. 
I. INDEXDTG 
True names and aliases of all informants, as well as cover name ass.igned, shall 
be inde:-::ed in general office indices as any other name. Index cards should 
• show file :number of informant, but such terms as "Informant" or "Potential 
Security Informant" sha 11 not appear. 
J. INDIC3:S 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol number index 
Arc., to be kept by SAC, ASAC, or security supervisor consist·ent with 
:ma.:dmum security and best administrative practice 
a. Alphabetical name index 
In all offices maintain card index showing true identities of all 
security informants, potential security informants, and security 
conf1dential sources. This is to be known as alphabetical name index. 
File cards in alphab0tical order. 
11 
11-12-70 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1153 
{ 
i t ! 
i 
1 
I -I 
I 
i 
. 
I I i 
f 
