( c. 
D. 
( 
PART II· 
• 
6C - D 
PUBLICATIONS , PRESS , AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
SPEECHES 
1. 7he speech program is the personal responsibility of the SAC, and the 
SAC or ASAC should handle principal commitments. If neither available, 
these can be handled by an experienced and well-informed Agent 
approved for the commitment by the SAC or ASAC. Good judgment should 
dictate when a manuscript should be submitted to FBIHQ for approval in 
advance of a speaking engagement, particularly in regard to radio and 
television appearances. 
2o It is not necessary to advise FBIHQ of each speaking engagemento Each 
office will maintain for a minimum of o,1e year and one regular off ice 
inspection a control file in connection with acceptances and declinations 
of speech invitationso Each y~ar on January 10th and on July 10th. 
each office will submit to FBIHQ a statistical report of speaking 
commitments handledo This will be divided into engagement~ by the SAC, 
the ASAC, and other Agent Supervisors; and will be further subdivided 
into speeches as well as radio, television, and Career Day appearances 
by these three groups. [In addition, identify the 10 most import_ant 
speeches given during the 6-month period covered by the report and 
indicate who gave themo] 
3. Each office should maintain a speech material file for the use of speakers. 
This should include Law Enforcement Bulletin items, interesting case 
material, magazine articles, research literature, newspaper clippings 
pertaining to law enforcement matters of interest, and items of value in 
connection with public appearances of Bureau representativeso In addition 
to being maintained in current status, this ~peech material should be 
indexed as to subject matter in the office fileso 
INTERESTING CASE WRITE-UPS 
1. Write-ups of interesting cases may be: 
a. Requeste<;J. by the Bureau . . ... 
bo Voluntarily submitted by the office of origin 
Co Suggested by other offices 
2. They are prepared ·concerning cases of: 
ao Major importance 
b. Public interest 
Co Unusual and effective investigative techniques 
do Novel investigations of human interest 
3o They are prepared: 
a. Double spaced 
bo Bureau file number to appear in upper left corner of first page 
c. Title includes names and aliases of convicted subjects 
do Accurately -
e. After a review of the entire file 
fo In chronological or logical order, with all dates definite 
g. Showing the actual time which is to be served under sentence 
ho To include as many pertinent photographs as. possible to make the 
wri~e-up interestingo The photographs should not necessarily be of 
subJects alone but should be of paraphernalia used by the criminal 
photographs of unusual loot obtained, scenes of various locales etc. 
~f photographs submitted do not belong to the FBI, it is necess~ry to 
inform the Bureau of their source and whether the owner of the photo­
graphs has any objection to their being reproduced in publications. 
io Each portion of the write-up should be documented as to the identity 
of the report or other communication from which facts were taken. The 
docu..~entation should be set off by parentheses and follow immediately 
the portion of the write-up to which it pertainso 
2a 
1-27-75 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 258 
