...... 
0 
o/V 
-WII-
We did not disregard that guidance because after 
very considerable use of this asset during the 
early 
1
50
1
s, there was a question of whether to 
continue it, and the matter was taken up in the 
National Security Counsel. And Allan Dulles, as 
Director, opposed that we continue the ownership 
and control of the assets of Air America, as it 
then was known including the subsidy as needed. 
And there was a subsidy at that time. It was 
about $1,200,000 per year.* 
This consideration by the National Security Counsel as to whether 
or not to continue to retain this asset and Mr. Dulles' recommenda­
tion that it be retained occurred in 1956. 
During this ~eriod of time the business of t~e air propriet~ry 
consisted almost entirely of Agency cargo carriage under contracts 
which were usually using a military designation. The company was 
not organized, according t_o Rous ton, to fly common carriage and 
had no status in the int_ernational air business. 
The evidence indicates that during this period of time, there 
were two struggles going on. One was where control should lie in 
the Agency and the other was the policies to be applied to the 
operation of the company itself. 
The struggle within the Agency ranged all the way from 
sort of quiet management discussions as to what was good 
management, to-sometimes rather vociferous augurnents of 
whose in charge here. And the operators always said, 
·well, we need to call the shots because it's our operation. 
And this is what we were running into all the time, 
of red hot operators opposed to what we would consider good 
management. • 
~~;:x'Houston indicated that there had been a subsidy running to the 
entities since 1949. 11$1.2 million represented about the maximum. 
subsidy given until, I believe, about 1958 was the turning point, 
and from 1958 on, there was no subsidy as such that went into it." 
The reason for that, of course, was that· the air complex had become 
"money-making. 
11 
lffl 50955 Douid:32423532 Page \46 
