I : • 
( d. 
[ 
C 
.. ' .. 
SECURITY II•fVES TIG.A.TI Q1'J" 
i. 
SE,...'1'1f0N 87. 
-(c) When all logical leads have been exhausted in case of 
87E 
missing important functionary, conside-r requesting Bureau 
. .authority to circularize all field offices with subject's 
. photograph and back~round information. 
Individuals traveling abroad (Also see section 105G, volume IV, of 
this manual.) 
Set forth below are steps to be taken when information is received 
that subject in one of following categories intends to travel abroad 
or haG already departed this country for foreign travel: subject of 
current security investigation, subject in priorities I and II 
of security index, past security subjects who may be in 
underground capacity, or subject concerning whom there is 
current information indicating need for foreign coverage. - . 
(1) Immediately advise Bureau by LIIJ:1 available details concerning 
travel, including places and dates· of departure and intended 
return, destination and itinerary, purpose of trip, name un1er 
which passport was issued, number of pas·sport, and issuing 
office, if known. Include full description of subject and all 
aliases {in case of Chinese and Korean subjects, -include Chinese 
telegraphic code or Korean telegraphic code numbers). Also 
include concise resume of available s·u.bversive da·ta regarding 
subject. Do not delay advising Bureau of actual or intended 
travel while developing deta;i.ls of travel as time is of essence. 
(2) Set out lead for WFO to check records of Passport Office, Depart­
ment of State; but do not limit efforts to develop pertinent 
information to such check. 
(3) Information concerning subject's proposed travel abroad, including 
information concerning subversive activities, is furnished 
Department of State, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and 
legal attaches. If travel is in area covered by legal attache, 
forward sufficient copies of LHJ:1 to enable dissemination of 
three copies to each legal attache involved. For each of these 
legal attaches, forward one photograph of subject, if available. 
If stops are to be placed with security services abroad, cover 
letter should so indicate. Set forth requests for investig~tion 
abroad on separate numbered page, captioned "Leads;" at end ·of L:Hi'1. 
Request should not refer to legal attache or request investigation 
by particular agency abroad. 
(4) Subsequent report in individual case should contain details 
regarding subject's travel. In nonsecurity index cases v:l).ere 
LHMs are submitted, communication transmitting data regarding 
travel should indicate whether investigation is being initiated and, 
if not, why. 
(5) Set forth below are st'eps to be taken when information is received 
that one of following is forming tour group for foreign travel·: 
organization of investigative interest to Bu~eau or subject in one 
of categories described in first paragraph under item d above. 
{a) Advise appropriate offices, under caption of tour group or 
organization, identities of individuals participating in 
tour, and furnish Bureau LHMs for State Department, CIA, 
and appropriate legal attaches. Include all readily available 
information pertaining to tour, such as itinerary, pertinent 
dates, names and addresses of participants, and thumbnail 
sketch of organization or individual. sponsoring tour. 
(b) Offices should immediately identify participants and submit 
LHMs on those in one of categories described in first para­
graph under item d above. Refer to LHM previously prepared 
·under caption of tour group or organization. Submit letter 
to Bureau under caption of tour group or ~rganization listing 
individuals within territory participating in tour on whom 
there is no subversive information. 
25 
5-13-71 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1978 
