T SECTION 107. SECURITY IHFORM.ANTS[ .AND 
• 
COUFID El'r'"TAL SOURCES] 
-• 
107S - U 
8. Instruct eaoh interested Bureau office which has made further dis-
semination of suoh information to follow the instructions set forth 
above. 
9, Also set up a control file regarding this corrective action, and upon 
completion of same si.tbmit to the Bureau a final le'Gter under the in­
formant ts caption identifying eaoh case by title, character, Bureau file, 
where known, and date of oornmu.nioation. 
10, This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau fiies to see 
that necessary corrective action has been taken in each instance, 
11, If necessary, other field offices which have received information from 
the informant should also be requested to submit summary let'.;crs sho-;,r­
ing what corrections have been made, 
12. It is imper;;.ti ve tha,i; all informatic;m fro.m the informant be correctly 
labeled and great oare must be taken to see that this is done. 
13. Occasionally, an ex-informant through his cpeech, writings, or actions 
raises a doubt as to his reliability subsequent to the time he was an 
informant. It is not necessary to go back and change the evaluation of 
tl::\e information attributed to tha.t indi-vidual in the a,bsence of a 
definite indication that the informant furnished unreliable information 
to the Bureau while he was an informant. 
14. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability 
and known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, 
section .5, of the Manual of Rules and Regulations . 
. T. CLASSIFIC.ATIOlT - 134 
U. COJ:TFIDEHTIJi.L· SOURCES 
• 1. Definition 
[ (See page 3 of this section.] 
2. Assignment of symbols 
a, A symbol number may be assigned ir an unusual security problem 
e::d sts, or if typing vrould be saved. 
b. .Advise Bureau by letter giving n2.me, a.a.dress, ·business affiliation, 
symbol number, reason for assigning a symbol nu.7ilber, and R brief 
si:atcment concerning type of information furnished. 
c. The abbre-vi·ation 11CS 11 may be used in intra-Bureau communications 
[ for confidential source. (Communications relating to espionage and 
[ foreign nationality matters should in addition have a character 
·[ indicating the country invol-ved; e.g., ]IS - R for Russia,] 
d. When·a permanent symbol has been assigned to a confidential source, 
the a.bbre-viation 11CS" is to appear before the symbol number; e.g., 
CS l'fY-000-·S. 
e. Symbol numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from 
the series of symbol numbers used for your security and criminal 
·informants. 
3. Index 
a. Index cards (3 by 5 inches) like those prepared for informants must 
be made up and filed as an adjunct to the oriminal informant index 
or the security informant index, depending on the type of information 
furnished. 
b. The symbol index is handled similarly to the symbol index on in-form­
ants. 
c. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with the 
criminal informant index and the security informant index if the 
source furnishes information of value in both types of investiga­
tions. 
4, Files 
When actiYe in·-restigation is initiated relative to an individual who 
has potential as a security confidential source, a 134 classification 
file should be opened and maintained in a pending status until efforts 
to develop the iniliTidual are discontinued. Th~ same procedure should 
be followed concerning racial confidential sources, the classification 
being 137. Files may be opened on confidential sources in criminal 
matters in a mannor identical with that for handling criminal informant 
files in the discretion of the SAC. 
27 
2-12-60 
.... 
