107G 
[ 
SECTION 107. S.RITY IlH'ORM . .li..NTS AND COHFIDENT. SOURCES 
(6) After informant authenticates his statement, contacting Agen~ 
should prepare a cover sheet, form ·FD-306, which should be stapled 
to it and thereafter the statement ahould be handled as a 
written one in accordance with instructions set out in 2, a, 
(10), and (11). • 
(7) Oral information furnished by informant purely of lead value 
should be incorporated in an office memorandum by the Agent 
and should not be initialed· by the -informant or exhibited to 
him or treated as evidence. 
3. Transmission of information 
a. Statements should be personally delivered to contacting Agent by 
informants whenever possible. Careful considerati·on should be 
given to full security of all such personal contacts. 
b, They should never be mailed to field office or resident agency. 
c. If they cannot be obtained personally by contaotin.g Agent, obtain 
confideqtial post office boxes. for their·receip~. . 
d, Confidential post offi9e boxes ~hould be obt-, 0 ~d under fictitious 
names and no·t und·€r name·S· of' pers·ons- who may liste,-: in post office 
dire·ctory. 
e, More than one informant may send st~tements t~ a specific post office 
box, but consideration should be gi ·:.'n to obtaining post office boxes 
in different post office stations t. tre-vent suspicion on part of 
post office employees. 
f. • nvelope enclosing statement should : •. ·;-e return address of another 
• >~fidential post off-ice box obi;air,, • ,rnder a fictitious name 1.n th~ 
., ame ·manner as d.. -· • • .... 
g. Statements should be collected at post office boxes regularly, 
but time of pickup should be varied, Work out system of rotation 
whereby same Agent or Agents will not appear· a·t same post office box 
for any ex~ ·1ed period of time, 
h. When infor;:. • .t receives information of vital and inunediate interest 
to Bureau, -~, should furnish it as promptly as possible to contacting 
Agent or :.,.'.fice by most appropriate means of communication. Office 
sho1.1.ld -l;•,':a any necessary action without delay. 
4, Handling of ·•ad information 
a. All leaJ <nformation obtained from informant must be run out to 
a logical conclusion. 
b, If there is only partial name of individual or meager descriptive 
data, and if there is sufficient data available to do so, file should 
be opened and assigned to effect an identification and to take any 
necessary action. 
c. If there is insufficient information to warrant opening case, 
a tickler card should be prepared to.follow with the informant and 
take other logical steps in an effort to obtain additional identifying 
dat,a concerning the indi-vidual. Tickler cards should be restricted 
to information which would warrant in-vestigation if an identity is 
established, This will eliminate inconsequential items, but at the 
same time definite steps must be taken to run ou·I; affirmati-ve informa­
tion. Ii no identification is made after reasonable effort, prepare 
memorandum for informant's subfile. If an identification is made, 
a file should be opened and any necessary action taken in connection. 
therewith. 
5, Handling documentary material furnished by informants 
a. Pamphlets and similar documentary material furnished by informants 
should have placed thereon the informant's code name. 
b, Informait should affix date he received the material. If informant 
cannot recall date of receipt, the date he furnished material should 
be affixed. 
c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, 
permanent symbol numl)er of informant, file numbers, indexing symbols, 
etc., should be placed on documentary material by .Agents or clerical 
personnel. 
12 
6-13-61 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1529 
) 
