! ' 
1 
l 
I 
1 
f 
1 
I 
i 
t ~w 88321 
' 
.. 
1 
At 10:50 AM, the women marched to the steps on the 
First Street side of the Los Anzeles City Hall for a second 
ral-ly. A count made as the de::-.anstrators marched between the 
Old State Buildin~ and the City Hall revealed that 250 
adult Caucasians (majority of whom were 1·10rnen dressed in • 
black), and eight non:-Caucasian adults were involved, plus 
some youn~sters and infants. The mother of one of the children 
had a cardboard sign, depicting a bomb and ;the captio.n, "I'm 
Glad I'm Not Vietnamese", strapped to the back of her son who 
appeared to'be less than four years of age9 
' . 
·_ With Vero11.l.9.a,~s.ons again acting as mistress of / I l 
ceremonies; tfieral~ms addressed by C9-_~~otte Sher:::.2n, .... 
Margaret Wright, Tima Tomash, and Ji1ys·chary. The latteri ~ --• · 
was introduced as a radio corrm1entatdr employed by Los Angeles 
P~dio Station KLAC. She joined the others in calling for a 
coalition of women to influence legislation and bring an end to 
the war in -Vietnam. She also called for support of other "liberal 
radio broadcasters on our side", one of whom she named as 
William Winter. (TherrDaily People's World", west coast 
contr.1lli"1ist nei':spaper, in its edition of Ju~e 11, 1946, described 
William Winter as cha-irman of a local citizens I contrni ttee ·to 
safeguard the Joint Anti-Fascist Refuge Corr:.rnittee, whict[ 
organization has been cited pursuant to Executive Order 10450)0 
• • _,.C6arlot~erman was introduced as the wife of 
Laurence' Sherman, it being pointed out that he was an --- • • 
unsuccessful candidate for public office, on a peace slate, 
during 1967; but that both he and his wife were continuing the 
fight for an end to the ~-:2.r in Vietna:i. She said, "It is time. 
for us to re-examine our role. as women. Women are a vehicle 
:for giving life. We will not be a vehicle for perpetuation 
of -wars u. She then read some anti-war quotes from .Henry David 
Thoreau, indicating they were as timely today, as when he ,.-,rote 
them. 
Margaret Wright stated that ,;·J:::ez-c~:= the majority of 
women in the demonstration were wearing bl~ck to denote mourning, 
that she and her non-Caucasian associates who feel, '~lack is 
beautiful" were dressed in white to indicate their attitude of 
mourning. She called :for the elimination of ROTC (Reserve 
Officers Training Corps) from local high schools and junior 
colleges, adding, "They have got to get live bullets out of the 
schools, and get some live teachers in. 11 She repeat~d these 
same statements durin 6 the afternoon when the JRB moved to 
the Los Angeles City Board of Educatio~. 
As the rally was breaking up, Wright grabbed the 
public address syste~ and said that it had been learned that 
the City Council i'ias· in session inside the City Hall Building. 
Dodd:32989545 Page 694 ·-3-
