13-00000 
r 
CLANDESTINE SERVICES 
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 
3. INVESTIGATIONS 
SECRET 
···' 
CSI NO. 10-5 . 
SECURITY 
Revised 1 '1 July 1958 
The function of performing all investigations in the United States in connec­
Uon with approval matters, except for the check of certain Agency records, 
ls reserved to the Office of Security. 
4. OPERATIONAL APPROVALS 
. . ,. 
a. The assembly and analysis of all file material (including the files of the 
Records Integration Division) in the Clandestine Services will be accom­
plished by professional personnel of the interested operating divisions 
under the technical supervision of the Counter Intelligence·staff and sub­
ject to spot check by the Counter Intelligence Staff. Certification will be 
made hi each case by a responsible official of the requesting division that 
the material furnished is complete and accurate. • • 
b. The requesting division will assemble any biographical data; inf9rmatfon 
of investigative or security significance (such as additional names :the •• 
subject may have used); information relating to character, reputation, 
politics, or other activities, favorable and unfavorable information or 
comments; background information; PRQ Part I or its equivalent (in du­
plicate); and field traces. Any information previously furnished by the 
subject concerning himself (such as a personal history statement, records 
of activities or employments, memberships in organizations, etc;) will 
be furnished verbatim. All pertinent information thus produced .. -includ­
ing that resulting from technical interrogations, personal observation, 
field investigations, etc.--will be furnished to the Counter Intelligence 
Staff for necessary transmissic>n to the. otfice of Security .. It is also nec­
essary to forward .PRQ Part II to the Counter Intelligence Staff before •• 
an Operational Approval will be issued. The Counter Intelligence Staff 
will not forward PRQ Part II to the Office of Security. In rare, compli­
cated, or sensitive cases the Office of Security, in coordination with the 
•. Counter Intelligence Staff, may wish actuaily to review the material of 
the Records Integration Division. A brief practical statement of the scope, 
• • nature, and .geographical area of the proposed usage of the subject will 
be furnished to the Off ice of Security along with ·the other data. 
c. The requester should also furnish to the Counter Intelligence Staff for 
transmission to the Office of Security any suggestions regarding the in.;. 
vestigation to be conducted and any particular points to be emphasized in 
the investigation, such as special skills, abilities, and weaknesses of the 
subject: The requester. should· also indicate what would be the most· 
plausible type of cover (i. e., general Government or commercial) to be 
employed in the conduct of the investigation and whether the subject has 
been briefed as to the fact of a pending investigation and, U not, why this 
. ls not feasible. • • 
d. Following approp;ia.te investigation andanalysis of a case, the Office of 
Security will forward its recommendation to the Counter Intelligence • 
Staff, with the investigative data enclosed. Upon receipfof this material 
2 
SECRET 
~o: ,,.- I • 'ii 
! ~ • 
. . 
,r-: -~-- ·-,: 
·:~i·i': 
