13-00000 
Page 4 
First, since 1976, when I became a staff member of the 
Public Documents Commission, I have been engaged in studieti.~:of 
public records· and • have become knowledgeable about government • 
recordkeeping· and archival practices. I also have been a consistent 
supporter of the preservation of records and timely access . for 
historical research. Between 1980 and 1988, I participated. as a 
speaker on 15-16 programs having to do with public records,·" 
archives or government information policy. . -
Second, as an active researcher in foreign policy records 
as well as congressional records during the initial stages of the 
Cold War era, I also have an • understanding of the nature of 
research and the kind of documentation required for such ·:r~search. 
Third, as a member of an advisory commi~e; on 
• documentation in the State Department (which requ•i,red a securitf 
clearance), I have an ·appreciation of the kinds of'liocuments·that 
government agencies find too sensitive to release . 
. Finally, I believe that in my work on preservation and 
access I have illustrated a personal integrity that has allowed me 
to gain the trust of my professional colleagues. 
B. FUTURE EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIPS 
Not Applicable 
C. POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 
1 _. Describe all financial arrangements, deferred compensation 
agreements, and other continuing dealings with business associates, 
clients or"customers. 
none 
2. Indicate any investments, obligations, liabilities, ox- other 
relationships which could involve potential conflicts of interest 
in the position to which you have been nominated. 
none 
3. Describe any business relationship, dealing or financial 
transaction which you have had during the last.lo years, whether 
for yourself, on behalf of a client, or acting as an agent, that. 
could in any way constitute or result in a possible conflict of 
interest in the position to which you have been nominated. 
none 
4. Describe any activity during the past 10 years in which you have 
engaged for the purpose of directly or indirectly influencing the 
passage, defeat or modification of any legislation or affecting the 
administration and execution of law or public ppolicy. • 
See item 19, testimony before Congress. 
5. Explain how you ~ill resolve any potential conflict of interest, 
including any that may be disclosed by your responses to the above 
items. (Please provide copies of any trust or other agreements.) 
not applicable 
