-15-
protection for you and your kid, and if you don't go 
ahead and tell them the name of these here people how 
you gonna do it? 
ML: Mnn:n. 
FS: You know we get back to the same thing again. Yeah, 
you're looking for protection. So far the people 
you've worked with, so.far this man Pucci who you 
saved his life, and saved another.undercover agent's 
life whose working with the FBI. These people are 
powerful people yet they have done nothing with the 
problem that you have had right now with you, three 
times there's been an attempt on your life, isn't 
that correct? One time they almost threw you out of 
an 18 story building. Another time you got pistol­
whipped. You did all this crap for these people 
here yet they will do nothing to go ahead at the 
present time, and this is on record in their own 
files and so forth, yet you cannot move them to give 
you or your children any. protection. This piece of 
tape is going to go right to Senator Baker's office, 
it'll go to Howard Liebengood for him to listen to, 
to evaluate it and turn this tape over to the proper 
authorities which will be the Justice Department. 
You can call Howard Liebengood. to see if he has 
received those codes from the Albanian Embassy from 
me. You can call him and find out, and also you 
can call him at the same time and let him know if 
a tape has been turned over to him. As a matter of 
fact when I get there Friday and leave this in his 
office I will instruct his people in the office to 
get a hold of you, because I'm gonna leave your phone 
number with Senator's Baker's people, with Senator 
Baker is on, has a Committee on Intelligence ... 
ML: Mm-hmm.. 
FS: He's got the committee. It's a new Comm.ittee that has 
been formed on intelligence. See, now. I am turning this 
information over to the proper authorities. See. And 
this information is not going to go to any newspaper 
or anybody ... 
ML: Okay, okay Frank. I have your word. It's just that I 
got a hang-up, you know I guess, with them working on 
practically all my adult life. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 248 
