notice before any OAS committee actually visited 
.Guatemala and that it might be possible even then to 
avoid a_ctual investigation on the spot. Mr. Bissell 
said that if we do have a week, evacuation could be 
carried out by Agency aircraft; if more speed is 
required DOD assistance might be necessary. 
Mr. Douglas, with Mr. Dulles and Mr. Bissell 
c9ncurring, felt that the possibility of emergency 
evacuation to Florida under the guise of ordinary 
refugees should be kept in mind.} 
Mr. Dulles suggested that questions on Cuba might be asked at 
the next Presidential press conference-and that we should be prepared 
• with a statement along the lines that we do not entirely discourage 
revolutionary activity. Mr.· Merchant said he would arrange to have 
a draft prepared along these lines. In this connection, Mr. Parrott 
reported the request from Assistant Attorney General Yeagley for 
guidance as to possible action against an alleged collaborator of 
Gene~al Pedraza. (Note: Mr .. Yeagley was later told that we have no 
operational interest and no objection to the Department of Justice's 
pursuing the case. Mr. Yeagley said that they would proceed with 
investigation, but that it is by no. means certain the case will ever 
come to trial. } . 
Mr. Gray then outlined his understanding of his friends 1 desires 
with respect to organization of the anti-Castro effort. He said that the 
principal need foreseen was for an individual to serve as a focal point 
for diverse interests in this situation, and to be available to meet with 
Mr. Gray's friends at any time. In addition, someone should be 
available to deal with the FRD and to.talk to other Latin American 
governments. 
After a considerable amount of discussion, the consensus of the 
Group was as follows: Probably tv.ro men will be required, one to handle 
the overt and the other the covert asp_ects .. They would work together 
on a daily basis and both would have the entire picture in mind, but 
responsib1lity for the execution of covert operations would have to rest 
with CIA. The overt man should ideally be a government official, 
preferably someone senior in the Foreign Service or the Department 
of State. There should be a sort of "board of directors'' to oversee 
all aspects of the operation. This should be the Special Group plus 
Secretary Anderson when matters of major policy are considered. 
(Mr. Gray was not entirely sure that his friends would accept the tv.ro- • 
man concept but Mr. Dulles and Mr. Merchant emphasized that whether 
2 
r-~-'.l ~ 1 -. j c. 
' .. ~ .... J 
NW 50955 Docid: 32423488 Page ·52 • 
., 
-· 
