13-00000 
. ,. • MAR 31 '97 12:05PM 
Questions for Follow-up DO Records Briefing 
April 1, 1997 
P.4 
l. At what point did the DDP begin to lceep records of destroyed records? For 
example, In a Cold Wa,rrior footnote, Tom Mangold reports that as any of Angleton's 
files were destroyed, "a complete record was carefully maintained about what had been 
done. (George) I<a1ar1s signed off on every file and the DCI's office was notified." 
(p. 143) Where are these records? 
2. Could an archival search be run on specific topics for retired records at the CIA's 
Record's Center? Perhaps an ARRB staffer could be present during the search to review 
the abstracts and to suggest other fields or topics to be searched? 
3. Could a crypt search for records containing relevant crypts be run through 
cryptographic reference? How would queries need to be framed and stated? 
4. Why is it so difficult to develop a list for all persoMel (official, contract, 
administrative, or TOY) assigned to the post referenced in RIF 104-10065-10199 from 
1959-1964? 
5. We have been working to identify all technical and surveillance operations in and on 
the Cuban and Soviet consulates and embassies in Mexico City between September 1 
and December 1, 1963. How can we frame a search query to determine If we have a 
comprehensive and complete list of all operations at that time? 
6. How can a search query be framed to document all electronic take produced by the 
Mexic;o City Station In the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month) and 
during the period of Oswald's visit? How can we verify that what exists in the 
Sequestered Collection represents all records of the technical production that was 
available at the time of the assassination? U additional records or original production 
still exists, where would lt be stored or filed? What searches could be conducted to 
retrieve any additional records? U such electronic take has been destroyed, do records 
exist of the destruction? 
7. Could you describe the process by which operational funds are proposed, approved, 
received, and distributed (circa 1963). What funding and disbursement records exist? 
How are they organized? How should a request be formulated to 'institute a reasonable 
search of these records? 
1 
