.... ..,. .. _ ... 
?\:\_t·~\ 
. . 
refrained from further comment but of course by that time the identification • 
of the gun was known, the caliber of. the gun, where it had come from, where 
it had been bought and the information we had run· down in Chicago and had 
furnished to the Dallas Police Department. 
If the case had been in the hands of the FBI none of that information would 
have been given out: Because of the publicity you had to face the charge that 
the prejudice of the community would require a change of venue. With the 
publicity, I don't know where you could have changed the venue to, since news­
papers all over the State covered it. I think a Houston reporter was the first 
one ·who wrote that Oswald was an informant of the FBI. We went to the 
newspaper reporter. He refused to tell us his source. He said he had also 
he11rd it from other persons. We asked him the names of these persons and we 
interviewed them but none of them would provide the source. In oth~r words, 
I was trying to nail down where this lie started. That, of course, ls always 
the result where you are daily giving out press interviews because the prees 
wants stories desperately. We have always adopted the policy in the Bureau 
of no comment until we have the warrant and make the arrest. Then a release 
is prepared briefly stating what the facts are, what the written complaint says, 
the fact. The complaint was filed with the Commissioner, and that ends it. 
We don't try to run it out for a week or 10 days, It is up to the U.S. attorne)' 
thereafter and the court to ·try the case. , 
I was concerned about t~e demand for change of venue, because all the evidence 
was being given out. At that time, of course, we didn't know that Oswald ·was 
going to be killed, and there was a possibility that he might be confronted with 
some of this evidence. If it had been kept secret and used in the interrogation 
of him, just confronting him with what was found, such as his picture with the 
gun might have been helpful. 
A small thing can often make a man break and come forward with a full 
confession. If he knows in advance that you have· certain evidence he will be 
on guard against answering questions. Of course, he is always advised of his 
rights and that he can have an attorney. We always make a point of this.- We 
generally have a reputable physician of the community present in our office 
while the prisoner ts there, to administer to him and be able to testify that he 
has not been subjected to third degree methods. He ts examined when he comes 
in and he ts. examined before we take him to the commissioner. Taking him 
before the commissioner in a case like Oswald's would probably have been doee 
within 4 or 5 hours. Generaliy we try to arraign a prisoner within an hour. 
That makes it more difficult; you have to work faster. But again I say I am 
in favor of having the procedures of law· enforcement officers as tightly bound 
down as we can, with due respect for the Interests of society. 
Of course, there must be an equal balance. For years we have had a rule 
against third degree methods, but years ago many police departments used the 
third degree. I· think very few of them use it now because If they use it they 
violate the civil rights statutes and we Investigate them for having brutaily 
handled a prisoner. Many allegations are made unfairly against police officers 
that they have used third degree methods and we are able to prove they haven't 
in our investigations. That is particularly true where civi!l rights matters are 
involved. We have such cases in many areas where civil rights agitation ts 
going on. 
Mr. RANKI1'. Mr. Hoover, to remind you of my questloJJ, any suggestions that 
you may have concerning the protection of the President, and the information 
that the Commission has that you have a special appropriation in that con­
nection for the Bureau? 
Mr. Hoon:a. -We do not have a special appropriation for the protection of the 
President. The Secret Service, of course, has that re.sponsibility. On .Decem­
ber 2, I prepared this memorandum for the President, and for the chief of the 
Secret Service at the request of the President, outlining suggestions that I felt 
should be considered to tighten up on the security of the President. If the 
Commission desires I will be glad to leave this or I will be glad to read It to the 
Commission. 
Representative Booos. Why don't you ask the Director just to summarize it. 
Mr. RANKIN. Will you summarize It? • 
116 
