1 . 
RE: 
, SECRET 
\ ........ 
After his return from t~e USSR, Jeff Jaffe told 
_source that during ·a port ton o:e the tour· of the 11-Young 
Presidents of America" j_n the ussn., thei· were escorted by 
\ 
\ 
Mikhail Bruk. Soti.rce was told that 11a t one point in an 
elevator in the Ukraine, 11 Bruk mentioned source's name to 
Jeff Jaffe and asked if source ,vas a relative or :friend of 
his. When Jeff Jaffe informed Bruk ti1a t they were close friends, 
but not related, Bruk asked Jeff Jaffe if he would mind 
taking a letter or note to source. Jeff Jaffe irrdicated he 
would be glad to do so, however, they parted that day 
and he did not see Bruk again for a couple pf weeks. Sust 
prior to his departure from the USSR, Jeff 'Jaffe met Bruk 
agaj_n and remindE!d Bruk of the letter to source, pointing 
out that ·he would be leaving the USSR very shortly, however, 
Jeff Jaffe got the j_mpression he ''was talking to a dummy. u 
. Bruk ga:iTe absolutely no indication that he recalled ever 
requesting him to deliver a letter or note to source. 
. Source stated that when Jeff Jaffe called him 
September 14,1970, and extended him the invitation. to 
atiend the_ party for Bruk at the Harmony Club, which source 
refer~ed to as a very exclusive Jewish club, · source inquired 
if Bruk was aware that source might attend the party. Source 
was ~old Bruk should not be aware of this. Source indicated 
he would be in New York City on business Wednesday, 
September 16, 1970, and might stay over to attend the party 
that }friday. He indicated his wife would not be able to 
attend because she has to iemain home with their childreno 
. . 
. Source in.dicated he has observed no indication 
that Bruk has attempted to contact him during Bruk's current 
visit to the un·i ted States ; however, source noted that he 
and ·111s wife .. we-re out of town the previous weekend and would 
not be awar_e ·if Bruk a ttempteq to call him during tmt period. 
In answer ·to a specific quest ion, source indicated 
he aoes not know whether or not· KGB would have been aware 
that 110 was a close friend of Jeff Jaffe prior to the 
latter's trip to the USSR. Source stated it is possible 
during his assignment in Mose-ow as ABC correspondent that 
he could have mentioned Jeff Jaffe to Mikhail Bruko He 
said it also is poss_ible that Bruk as_ked ;Jeff Jaffe· about 
him merely because both have the same surnameo 
SECRET. 
-2-
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989104 Page 214 
. 
j 
I 
I 
I 
j 
l 
j 
.1 
l i 
' 
j 
j 
! , l 
l ' 
j 
·1 
l 
.I 
l I 
i j 
