13-00000 I 
---------·· A 
.. 
PROBLEMS 
A. Rouse Subcommittee on "Intelligence and Military Application of 
Nuclear Energy 
Former Chairman Lucien N. Nedzi fully exercised his perogatives 
as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Intelligence and we could look to 
him for support in any problems developing with other committees and 
other members of the House not on the Subcommittee. Based on the 
reactions of Chairman Melvin Price in the few instances that we have 
approached him in this Congress for assistance, it is quite evident 
that he is not the dominant personality as was Chairman Nedzi and will 
not stick his neck out to defend the Agency. Nor does it appear that 
the new staff director will be of the forceful personality as was 
Frank Slatinshek who was very helprul in a number of problems. A few 
• weeks ago former.Chairman Nedzi suggested that we resolve a problem 
involving Representative Donald M. Fraser by going to Speaker O'Neill. 
This may have been his indication to us that we may have to look to 
House leadership to resolve problems. Mr. Nedzi also suggested that we 
contact someone in the White House on a problem. We.may be faced with 
needed White House support on a problem before we approach the leader­
ship-
B. House Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control 
The extent of Chairman Lester L. -Wolff's ove~sight of -the Agency 
in its narcotics collection activities still remains a looming problem. 
As indicated by the request for the seal, Mr. Wolff intends to extend 
the Agency's activities to where there is maximum effective collection 
of foreign•intelligence on narcotics trafficking leading to arrest and 
conviction without regard to the Agency's statutory prohibitions. The 
only solution rests with the Attorney General and the White House giving 
the Agency clear and precise guidelines to o_perate- in this area which 
the Agency can then point to in any disputes that may arise with the 
Select Committee as to what the Agency's role should be. 
AD!AHJISTR:1 TlVE lNTERNJ1l USE • ONL y 
