1:07T-U 
4. 
5. 
SECTION 107.enCURITY INFORMA.NTS AND CONFID~AL SOURCES. 
b. Pamphlets, brochures, e-tc., prepared by private company for distri bu­
t ion or sale to public. (This does not include highly technical 
pamphlets, even if unclassified, which are prepared for limi-'.;ed use (' 
and not intended for release to public.} 
Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be retained by office of origin of any document.s or 
material related t·o national defense which is passed. 
b. Such material should be appropriately identified by double agent. 
Bureau Agents should not place identifying-data on such material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in connection with its pas-sage. 
c. Similar action should be taken regarding material which is passed. which 
is considered evidentiary although not clearly related :to nat?-onal defense. 
d. It is not necessary to retain copies of buildup material obvi.ously· not 
evidentiary in nature where copies can be obtained at later date from 
Government agenc"y or private concern having custody. 
Handling money and property received by double agents 
a. Double agents must turn over to Bureau any money or property received 
from their principals in connection with double agent intelligence 
operation. This should be made clear to double agent at inceptiorr 
of opera,tion (consider obtaining signed statement to this effect). 
Excep·!;ions must be specifically approved by Bureau. Entirely separate 
arrangements must be made for payments to double agents for services 
rendered to Bureau. 
b. Any money or property received by double agent from his principal 
represents possible evidence and double agent should execute state­
ment describing money received by type of currency, denomination, 
series of issue, and serial number and appropriately describing any 
other property received. Statement should be signed by double agent's 
code name. 
c. Money or property received from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regulations. 
d. Bureau Agents receiving such money or property from double a nts 
should make independent records for retention for purposes refreshing / recollection in event testimony_is later necessary. \. 
U. UTILIZATION OF INFORMA.NTS AND SOURCES AT INSTITUTIONS OF LEARNING 
1.. Use of students 
[ a. Students under age of [18]years are not to be developed as securi"l:;y 
[ informants, [potential security informants, ]or other ·!;ypes of security 
sources in other than highly unusual circumstances. Under such 
circumstances, furnish complete justification to Bureau. 
b. Upon initial contact with pr·ospective student informant or source, 
individual should be tactfully request·ed to execute a brief signed writ­
ten staterr.ent for field file setting forth that this ind.ividual has 
voluntarily come forward to furnish information to FBI because of 
his concern over individuals or groups that may be inimical to 
interests of U.S. Government and that he understands FBI has no 
interest in legitimate institution or campus activities. 
2. Quarterly letters 
a. On January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1, submit quarterly 
letters on each student and teacher authorized by Bureau f,or contact 
as security informant, potential security informant, or other 
sources (including panel sources). Include following: 
(1) Specific productivity 
(2) Specific information furnished not otherwise availab~e ·from 
public source material or other office sources off campus 
(3) Frequency of contact 
b. Quarterly letters on all racial and security informants or sources 
should be jointly transmitted to Bureau. by cov-er letter ca·ptioned 
"Utilization of Informants and Sources at Institutions of Learning . 11 
Include following in cov-er letter: 
(1) Number of informants, potential informants, and other sources 
active and under development at each educational institution 
affected 
{2) An overall analysis of coverage afforded by campus inforrnan·ts 
and sources 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1690 
24 
9-30-70 
.. 
