35 
Halpern, Fitzgerald's assistant, tolu the 
Committee that the pen was intended to show "bona fides" ·and 
"The orders wer~ to do something to get rid of Castro 
and we thought this other method might work whereas a rifle 
wouldn't. " (Halpern, p. 26) 
Helms confirmed that the pen was manufactured 
"to take care of a request from him that he have some device 
for getting rid of Castro, for killing him, murdering him, 
whatever the case may be. 0 (Helms, 6/13, p. 113) 
" ... (t)his was a temporizing gesture." (Helms, 6/11, p. 133)* 
On November 22, ½-963, Fitzgerald and the case 
officer met with AMLA::'H-1 in a European capital and offered him 
the poison pen, recommending that he use Blackleaf-hO, a deadly poison 
which is commercially available. (Case Officer 2, p. 112) The Inspect­
or General's Report .noted that 
"it is likely that at the very moment President Kennedy was 
shot a CIA officer was meeting with a Cuban agent in Paris 
and giving him an assassination device for use against 
Castro." (I.G., p. 94) 
* In his testimony before the Committee, Case Officer 2 offered a con­
flicting story. He said that· the purpose of the pen was 
"to provide Al'{;LASH with a·device which would serve him to 
protect himself in case he was confronted with and charged 
with being involved in a military coup against Castro." 
(Case Officer 2, p. 107) 
According to the case officer, AMLASH-1 had requested an "esoteric device 
which could easily be concealed and which he- could use in self-defense 
(Case Officer 2, po. 98-99). The d~vice was not intended for offensive 
use against any person, but was rather 
"a kind of psychological crutch ... to help him think that 
we were interested in his own protection, his own security" 
(Case Officer 2, pp. 104-105). 
This version is wholly inconsistent with documents in the CIA files, some 
of which were written by the AMLASH case officer, which establish that 
AMLASH-1 intended to kill Castrb, and that the CIA knew his desi:r'e and 
endeavored to supply the means that he needed. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 60 
