SECRET 
single executive session up on the Hill~ including the one I was at, he had a 
television show right after the meeting broke up. They were waiting for him 
outside the door with cameras and lights. And we, you and I, as American. 
citizens paid for all of the electricity involved because they were all 
plugged into the walls. But I saw it ther& as I came out. Fortunately, 
nobody ever stopped me going out. I don't khow what the hell, what it was, 
but maybe it was because I looked so nondescript_or so ignorant or whatever, 
because when I left that meeting, I thought there they wer~ in the hall and 
walked right by them. And they were waiting for some big shot and I wasn't a 
big shot. A little shot, or a littl~ punk anyway. And I walked.in, walk~d 
right by them, stepping over all the wires and all their legs because they 
were sitting there leaning against t~e wall like this, you know, a·nd snoring 
some of them. And I went into the men's room, and I didn't have on my award 
pin from the Agency .and had just an ordinary dumb old_ blue ·suit, I think it 
was. And I went right by them, went into the.john, did my business, came·out, 
' . . 
walked by them the other way, and got out of there. And that night I see 
Fra~k Church on television tellihg about all this stuff they had just heard. 
Not once, he never mentioned my na,me. _ My name was never mentioned except, I 
was told later, in the late edition, a late city edition of The New York Times 
in New York, in one of the stories my name appeared. And I was in the 
executive session.· Nobody should have known my name. Somebody gave somebody, 
somebody inside gave somebody outside, my name. And 1t was there on one 
-line. Except I have gone to look at The New York Times index a couple of 
times and they've got ,my_ name listed in that year, '75, but the page number is 
all wrong. So it's one of ·those historical things that you will never find. 
• You'll never find if,unless you know exactly where to look.· The index will 
75 
SECRET 
