[ 
b. 
( 
) . 
SECTION 107. 
J 
.URITY INFOR11AHTS .AND 107G 
(6) Informants should include in the body of their statements specific 
dates and places; purpose of the meeting o~ activity being 
related; identities of speakers and persons present, plus their 
known status in any group; specific activity engaged in by each 
indivi"dual prese.nt; and comments ma.de by each individual. 
( 7) Informant should 1 i--aentify each page at the bottom by affaxing 
his code name.· .Any corrections, erasures, changes, or additions 
should be similarly identified. 
(8
9
) Agents' names should never appear on any page. 
( ) Informant should refer to himself in the body of the statement 
by his true name and he should use the third person. 
(10) Agent recei-.ring written st·atement should not make any corrections, 
additions, deletions, etc,, thereto, nor should he place any 
markings thereon, such as his initials, date of receipt from 
informant, permanent symbol number of informant, file numbers, 
indexing symbols, eto. 
{il) Do not block stamp or s~rialize, Receipt and serialization 
should be recorded on form FD-306 or on a cha•:nelizing 
memorandum which should contain the applicab:> i terns set 
forth on form FD-306. 
. (12) Extraneous material should be kept to an absolute minimum. 
Informants should leave out such items as•: 
. ( a) .Any reference concerning the Director and the Bureau 
. ,_ . .,_(h). Rej"erences to other d9c~ments and statements submitted by 
• the informant 
(c) Obvious administrative material, such as operational 
instructions given by contacting Agent to informant 
.. 
These data should be furnished orally by informant to con­
tacting Agent who will record the information in memorandum 
form for the informant file. 
Furnished orally by informant 
(1) Contacting .Agent should promptly reduce information to writing 
( 4) 
( 5) 
so that i·b will be accurately recorded as contemporaneously as 
possible with the making of the oral statement by the informa~t 
to the Agent. The following items furnished by informant should 
be left out: 
~ ~~ 
( C) 
.Any reference 
References to 
the informant 
concerning the Director and the· Bureau 
other documents and statements submitted by 
Obvious administrative material, such as operational 
instructions given by contacting Agent to informant 
These data shouid be recorded in memorandum form for the inform­
ant file. 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau. markings or identification. 
Date it at the ·!;op with the date the informant furnishes the 
• i-nformation to the Agent. No other date is desired e.;ccept the . 
date of the meeting or activity whicn shall be set forth in the 
body of the statement. 
Separate statements should be prepared for each meeting or each 
s~parate activity in which informants engage and should be 
dictated by the Agent as if the informant were preparing them 
himself. 
The information, after being reduced to writing, should then 1.Je 
read promptly by the informant and acknowledged by him by 
affixing his code name on each page. In espionage and foreign 
nationality matters authentication by informants is necessary 
only where fut"tu·e prosecution is possible. 
NW 3832;1 Docld:32989529 Page 1396 
11. 
6-13-61 
i 
i ! : 
I 
I I 
I 
I I I 
i ! 
I 
l 
I 
. I 
t 
I I 
I i 
I 
I t 
t 
t 
i 
