( 
( 
, .::-... .. -: 
( 
. 
( • I I 
', ~ t' I•' 
I •:l, 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
(3} 
...r,,:-,\ 
• .... TIOU 87. 
. ", 
SE CURI TY I!P/B STIG.k. .rs 87D 
Criteria ft>-r placing and retaining names in the socur·ity index 
(a) The addition to and retention of names in the securi"t;y index 
shall be governed by the following criteria: 
£38 
I 0 No name shall be added to or retained in the security 
index unless one or more of the follovling sltu,dions have 
been established through investigation: • 
( '; A) Subject has had mcmbcrsh:i.p or parti•cip:.i.tion in the 
activities of a basic revolutionary organization wi +.h- : 
in the last 5 years as shown by overt acts or state-
ments established through reliable s our·ces, infcr·m-
ants, or i ndi vidu.;,.ls o . 
{13). Subject h::i.s had membership or participation in the 
affairs of one or more front organizations, which 
adhere to the policies and doc*rines of a revolu­
tionarr group, i~ a leadership capacity or by active 
substantial participation in the furthera.nce of the 
aims or purposes of the front organizatiqns within 
the last 3 years as shown by overt acts of state­
ments established through reliable source:,> inform­
ants, or i ndi vid.uals .. 
(C) Investigation has developed information thn.t an 
individual, though not a me~nber or a participant 
in the activities of a subversive organization, has 
anaxchist or revolutionary beliefs and is likely to 
seize upon the opportunity presented by a national 
emergency to endanger the public safet.y as shovm by 
overt acts ·or statements within the last 3 years 
established through reliable sources, inf0rmants, 
or individuals. 
(D) .Alt}·.ough investigation has .failed to establish 
overt acts or statements on the part of a sub­
ject within the time limits set out above, facts 
have_ been developed which clear·ly .and umnistakably 
depict the -subject as a dangerous individual who 
,., could be expected to corami t acts inimical to the 
national defense and public safety of the U~ s. in 
time of- emergency. 
45 
1-17-64 
.... 
