• - I 
Wiley stated that there was no other attempt at 
interrogation made either directly or indirectly during 
his stay .. He stated that on Saturday night an official 
from the U.S. Embassy visited him. Wiley did not know 
this man's name and Mr. Kessler from the Embassy who has 
been previously mentioned visited him i\londay, Tuesday and 
Wednesday. Wiley commented that prior to his release he 
gave what he regarded as significant information (which 
will be referred to in the second section of this report) 
to Kessler, since he thought the information shoul<l be 
surfaced and he could not tell how long he would be kept 
in the prison. Wiley cautioned the writer at this tirae, 
the possible compromise of his connections if this infor­
mation was handled incorrectly. 
Wiley stated that he suffered no particular harass­
ments while in the prison. He stated that some of the 
guards talked tough and tried to act tou~h but Wiley stated 
he behaved in his completely stubborn and obstreperous man­
ner at all times and refused to cooperate in every possible 
1iay. He stated that the regular prison guards were friendly 
and he had no trouble with them but the special military 
~u2.rc1.s :JT"'!':1 the ,qrmv i-:vri~ 1,rP,re r:i-1~ 1:0ns1.:anc suiiit:L.1.~ u.f ~1:~ 
scorn and hostility. 'He ~tated that as a form-of annoy-
ance he was told twice that he was going to leave and then 
after he had prepared to leave, he was told that it was a 
mistake and that his leaving had been cancelled. 
Wiley stated that on Friday or Saturday in the morning 
which had been the 29th or 30th of July he was checked over 
by a doctor at the prison for fungus infection and because 
of the fact that he was on a hunger strike and that it was 
obvious that he was weak from hunger, Wiley said nothing 
came of this but on Tuesday the 2nd of August, he was taken 
within the prison to a doctor who immediately sent him to 
a hospital, address unknown (in Havana), Camp Libertad. 
At this hospital Wiley was given a check up and he was told 
he would have to eat. Wiley stated that he ~ould resist 
any effort to force feed him and he refused to take any 
food and any medication from a Cuban doctor or Cuban atten­
dant. Wiley said that at the hospital he was pl~ced in a 
psycho cell with about twelve persons some of 1.,rhom Wiley 
thought were political types but most of ,,;ham were criminally 
-23-
C\A 
(·· -~- I.~\ ·~ ~~ T 
L' ..... • .. ..,,·; • - i 
NW 50955 Docid:32203889 Page 26 
