10711 
N, 
N· SECTION 107 -ECURITY INFORY.1.AMTS AND CONFID-IAL SOURCES 
document in the pertinent informant file and i-s not to be serialized .• 
If a particular section of this form is not applicable, such should be 
noted thereon. If it later becomes applicable, the. serial number can be 
noted at that time. 
Bulky material submi t·ted by informant 
Where informant or source submits bulky material other than a statement 
and same pertains to a specific investigative matter, bulky material m~y 
. be filed in the investigative case file, together with a copy of executed 
form FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
set forth on form FD-306, In such a case, the 9riginal form FD-306 or 
channelizing memorandum should .be filed in the subfile of the informant 
or source and the file and serial number where the bulky material is 
located should be noted thereon. 
PAYMENTS TO INFORMANTS .AND HANDLING MONEY RECEIVED 
1, No gifts to informants 
a. Gifts shouhi not be g_:i.,;-en :to informants .. since such actions might be 
misconstrued, .. _ . . .. 
b. Relationship between .A.gents. and informants shall be maintained on 
a businesslike basis. 
c, Expenditures for gifts to i·nformants will not be approved as blue 
slip items. 
d. Investigative employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
representatives of companies, private industries, or insurance companies 
and request a,ssistance regar, .:ng payments of mo11ey, gifts, or products 
o;e such companies to- iirfoTma:nts .. 
2. SAC authority to pay informants. 
a, In specific instances in which it is necessary and expedient to 
expend money to obtain information concerning matters or persons 
under investigation, which is not otherwise o.btainable, or to advance 
expense money to enable an individual to obtain such information, 
SAC may approve payments of amounts up to $200 and totaling not more 
than $200 on a c.o.d, basis regardless of the number of payments, 
This applies only to individuals who have never been regularly paid 
for services or expenses on Bureau authorization. In other words, 
once an individual has been paid on Bureau authorization, regardless 
of the amount, this authority of the SAC may not be utilized. 
b. Individual who is paid on SAC authority should not be described •in 
correspondence as an informant or source who is being paid on a 
"regular basis" or on "Bureau authorization.a 
c. The blue slip reclaiming any of these payments authorized by the SAC 
must ciearly and accurately explain the circumstances and summarize the 
information obtained so the Bureau will be i~ a position to pass 
intelligently such blue slips for payment. 
d, Prior Bureau authority must be obtained to make any additional payment 
to an individual who ha.s received payments totaling $200. 
3, Payments on continuing basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a continuing basis, obtain specific Bureau authoriza­
·tion. 
b, In requesting this authorization, a justification must be set forth 
containing the following items and using the subheadings shown, 
(In espionage and foreign nationality matters, use subheadings 
where applicable.) 
(1) Recommendation 
(Use following wording as nearly as possible: 
"I recommend that authority be granted to 
continue (increase, decrease) payments to the 
above informant up to $ (amount) per (month, vreek) 
for services, plus up to$ {amount) per (month, week) 
for expenses actually incurred for a perioa:-of months, 
effective __ (date).")· --
18 
3-13-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1513 
) 
