13-00000 
uo J J 
-' 
l tit. J.,;. 1 ·".> 1·.-\.\ .,;tJ..:, ' .: ◄ 
( 
Ii 
4.1 ,&JI lc!J UU I 
( 
\ \ 
WILLIAM L JOYC[ 
EXPERIENCE: 
Princeton University 
Associate Unlvarslty librarian for Rare Books and Special Collections, 1986-
Thls poslUon entails managing the Rare Books and Special Colloctions Department ol the Prp,cetori;tlniverslty Librar-: 
Including suporvlslng a pormanent staff of about 45, overseeing the budget. planning tt10 Dcpartmnnt's programs 
(lnduding acquisitions, catalog Ing. collection dovelopmont. conservation, relcrenco and access, ~xhibltlons, ancf 
publications) and space needs, and reviewing and revising as necessary policies and procedures for the OcpartmAnt 
Additional responsibilities Include sitting on tho library Council which assists the Univarsity Librarian In directing 
the Princeton University libraries, and serving as liaison for the Library io the Friends of)be·Rfinceton University 
Library (of which I am also Secretary). ,, ••• • • i 
' 
Columbia University School of Library Service 
Adjunct Faailty. 1984 -1992 
This appointmanJ Involved teaching lhroo coursos, a lectufe course ·curatorshlp ol Rare l3ooks and Special 
CollecUons•. a seminar, ·Problems in Archival Administration: and a ~Aminar on rare books (co-taught with 
Terry Belanger) until the University closed the school in July, 1992. 
The New YorkPubllc Library 
Assistant Director for Rare Books and ManuscriplS, 1981-1986 
This position Included planning to, and managing the Rare Qooks and.Manuscripts and Archives Sections 
as well as u,e Arents Collections of l obacco and Books In Parts. The position emphasized developing the • 
Rare Oooks and Manuscripts Oivislon's programs and spaoo needs, overseeing the budget, supervising a 
permanent staff ol 1~. and reviewing and revising as necessary procedures for the continuing development and 
management of lhe library's rar~ boo"5, manuscripts and archives holdings.I also p:1rticipated as a curator i'n 
the inaugural exhitJition In Gonesmann Gallery. ·ecnsorship: 500 Years.• 
American Antiquarian Society 
Education Officer, 1 gn.1 ge 1 
With the assistance of a grant for the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.this position was created to plan and 
. ,_ . 
implement seminars, colloquia~ lectures. an academic conference, readings, an adult edur,ation course. 
and musical performances that improved scholarly use al AAS holdings and made the Society a more 
vislhle cultural resource in the region. 
Curator of Manuscripts, 1 ~72-1981 
In addition to managing acquisitions and providing reference assistance to readers, this position entailed 
supervising a six year project, funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities. that provided 
to, the systematic arrangement and OP.!'.Cription of the Society"s manuscript collections. (see Publications) 
William L. Clements library. The University of Mlr,higan Manuscripts Librarian, 196U~1972 
