( 
[ 
( 
[ 
NW 38321 
87. SECURITY INVESTIGAi 87D 
attention to existence of a security index card for that 
J • individual. In all such instances a specific recommenda­
•·: .-.. tion must be made concerning cancellation of card. Card 
- • •• may be destroyed upon receipt of Bureau authority to des­
.. •~ ignate subject as a security informant. • 
(f) Subject no longer dangerous or potentially"dangerous 
Inst.ructions set out below should be read in conjunction 
with 87D 6b (7} (c} herein relating to interviews with 
(g) 
security index subjects. . .. 
Frequently, after a subject is included. in security index,. 
information is received or investigation develops informa­
tion indicating that he is no l:onger a threat to internal 
security by reason of physical condition, defection or ex­
pulsion from subversive movement, membership in or affilia­
tion with which was reason for placing him in security in­
dex. Such defect ion may lie shown by la ck of a.c.ti vi"ty and . 
obvious disinterest over an extended period of time or upon 
declaration of opposition to principles· of subversive moye­
ment. Latter may manifest itse;Lf in declarations by a sub­
ject in presence of confidential informants or other sources, 
statements to press, or actual contact with Bureau repre­
sentatives and admission of 'previous subversive ac~ivity. 
When sufficie~t information is at hand regarding subject's 
prese~t sympathies to reac~ conclusion that lie should no 
longer be scheduled for apprehension as a dangerous subver­
sive, request authority to interview subject or advise 
Bureau of reasons why subject should not·be-interviewed. 
Bureau will not cancel security index card without consider­
ation being given to interview of subject. See 87D 6b (7) 
(c) and {d).· - . • .. 
. _ If, upon interview, subject proves cooperative to extent 
that his security index card should be canceled, advise 
Bureau by letter of results, together with a recommendation 
for cancellation which must be approved by Bureau .. 
Subjects removed from security index solely upon basis of 
application of security index criteria, with no affirmative 
indication of defection 
As security index cases are reviewed upon reopening in field, 
there will be instances in which removal wil~ be required 
by application of security index criteria set· out in 87D 7b 
(3). With passage of time, li°mits specified in cr.iteria 
will operate to remove certain subjects even thoug~ there 
is no affirmative indication of defection. 
[When]recommending removal of a subject's name from security 
index,(consider]if facts in case warrant inclusion of sub­
ject's. name in section A of _reserve index. 
Follow procedures[set out hereafter for]those individuals 
not being recommended for iuclusion in section A_of reserve 
index: 
•• I. When subjects are removed from security index solely on 
.··-~ ,., basis of application o·f security i?J.dex criteria as cases 
are reopened and reviewed in field, retain security index 
cards pertaining to such subjects b~aring descriptive 
matter on reverse sides; i.e., cards previously filed in 
geographical, special, or unavailable sections. Destroy. 
cards previously filed in alphabetical se~tion. Those 
offices maintaining two sets of geographical cards under 
provisions of 87D 7b (6) (b) I should retain but one 
card in each instance, destroying second geographical 
card as well as card previously filed in alphabetical 
section. 
• 61 
2-13-70 
.. : 
