, 
embassy. The FBI officer had left the FBI to come with thestatt' 
but pains have been taken to conceal his CIA employmeqfhi; 
order to avoid the bad blood that would result from the cil'i' 
•stealing' of an FBI officer. The two non-official cover officers aii~ 
the equivalent of an A Io Public Safety mission but in Mexico tlil{~ 
. function is performed secretly by the station in deference to M~ • 
can nationalist sensitivities - as is the case in Argentina. Through: 
the LI TEMPO project weareQUTCDtly providing advice and equip., 
ment for a new secret communications network to function W~ 
tween Diaz Ordaz's office and principal cities in the rest of~ 
country. Other joint operations witli the ~exican security sci-~ . 
vices include travel control, telephone tapping and repfCSSive 
action. -.~l: 
The station also prepares a daily intelligence summary for Diq 
Ordaz with a section on activities of Mexican revolutionary orga. 
nizations and communist diplomatic missions and a section OIi 
international developments based on information from head­
quarters. Other reports, often relating to a single subject, are 
passed to Diaz Ordaz, Echeverria and top security officials. These 
reports, like the daily round-up, include information from station 
unilateral penetration agents with due camouflaging to protect the 
identity of the sources. The station is much better than are the 
Mexican services, and is thus of great assistance to the authorities 
in planning for raids, arrests and other repressive action. 
Liaison between Scott and the Mexican military intelligence 
services consists mainly of exchange of information, in order lo 
keep a foot in the door for future eventualities. The US militaJJ 
attaches, moreover, are in constant contact with their Mexicai 
military intelligence counterparts and their reports are received 
regularly by the station. 
Stan Watson,t the Mexico City Deputy Chief of Station, bas 
been meeting with a South Korean CIA officer who was recently 
sent under diplomatic cover to monitor North Korean soundings 
for establishment of missions in Mexico and Central America. 
Communist Party Operations 
The station cp section consists of two case officers, Wade 
Thomast and Ben Ramirez,t both under Embassy cover, plus 
526 
. two case officers outside the station under non-official cover: Bob 
.,.DriscoU,t a retired operations officer now working under con­
~-p-act, a~d Jul_ian Zambianco who was transferred from Guayaquil 
.to MeXJco City about a year ago. These officers are in charge of 
e&t:°t and t~hnicaJ penetrations a~ainst the revolutionary organi­
i.auons of importance. The quality of this intelligence is high, 
although not as high as it was _before 1963. In late 1962 Carlos 
J.danuel ~ellecer,t the station's most important communist party 
penetration-agent, broke openly with communism by publishing 
a book. He· was a leader-of the _Guatemalan Communist Party 
(ro_T) and had been Minister of Labor in the Arbenz government 
dunng the 1950s. However, aner the Agency-sponsored over­
throw of the Arbenz government PelJecer made his way to Mexico 
Qty where for years he was the station's best source (cryptonym 
UNLUCK) on all the revolutionary organizations in Mexico not 
just the Guatemalan exiles. His book. of course, was financed by 
&he station and distributed by the Agency all over Latin America. 
Pellecer is still being used by the Mexico City station as a propa­
ganda agent, as with other former penetration agents who form­
ally break with communism without revealing their years of work 
as spies - Eudocio Ravines,f the well-known Peruvian defector 
from communism is a parallel case. Another book by Pellecer 
also financed by the station, has just appeared. This book is ~ 
continuation of CIA exploitation of the Marcos Rodriguez and 
Joaquin Ordoqui cases in Cuba, and is aimed at denigration of the 
Cuban revolution. 
The station also collects information about c~mmunists from 
the US living in Mexico. Many of them arrived during ·the Mc­
Carthy period and some have subsequently become Mexican 
citizens. Information about them is mainly of interest to the FBI 
which calls them the American Communist Group in Mexi~ 
Oty (ACGMC). Information collected about them includes that 
obtained through the LI ENVOY telephon~tapping operation des-
01"bed below. 
The station also receives copies of reports from FBI penetration 
?pcrations against Mexican revolutionary organizations. Mexico 
IS the only country in Latin America, except Puerto Rico, where 
the FBI continued operations against the local left when the CIA 
took over in 194 7. The FBI intelligence is of high quality. 
S27 
I 
