0 
! 
) 
SECURITY IUVESTIGATIO 1,. 87D 
If a quostlon bf law arises as to existence of violation, advice 
Bureau and hold investigation in abeyance until opinion is 
obtained fror:i Department. Where tlie materiality of the denial 
or omission indicates a full investigntion is not warranted, a 
limited invei::tigation may be conducted; e.g., where denial of 
past Intern2.tiona.l Workers Order (I'WO) membership nw .. de 1J.nd files 
show membership in IWO but no psrticipa.tion in its activit:ie::;. 
However, the Department has advised it is unable to adopt any 
fixed. policy f'.S to whether prosecution .is warranted in any 
particular ca.tetory of cases of this type and desires to rc;vicw 
a~d consider each case indi~idually. Therefore, the basic facts 
concerning ·the execution and filing of' the docur.icnt and the sub­
versive activity denied should be submi ·tted in report form for 
presentatfon to the Department, even though the bP .. sis for the 
concealment or fraudulent statement does not appear to be 
·material., 
Inves·tigate and report cri~inal· fraud violation {such as. con­
cealment of arrests) arising during securit;y-type fraud. inve:;ti­
gation on same subject in conjunction with the investig~tion·of 
the security-type frav.!'l• Both violations will be presented to 
the Department by the Bureau. If, however, the security-type 
fraud investigation is d_iscontinued, handle the criminal fra,.1d 
separ~tely in accordance with section 47 of' this manual. Mili­
tary. intelligence agencies often rei'er cases _for security inves ti­
gations under Delimitations Agreement in which securj, ty-type fraud 
·violations also involved. If the subversive information does 
not warrant full security investigation but doc:i indicate a 
possible fraud violation, advise the interested agency the 
Burea11's investigation will be directed toward proving the 
poss.ible, violation of law and that any background investigation 
contemplated by it pursuan·t to its administrative re_sponsibili­
ties will not interfere with our investigation. Advise agency 
any pertinent information developed during our investigation ·will 
be furnished it and reques~ it to do likewise. T~er.ea:fter,. 
immediately i~itiate the security-matter - fraud again:it the 
Government investigation. If the subversive information .-:arrants 
:full security investigation and also indicates a fraud violation, 
advise interested agency the Bureau is initiating a full security 
investigation in conjunction with investigation of the possible 
violation of. law and result'! will be furnished i·t upon receipt. 
Thereafter, iw.:nediately institute such an investigation looking 
t.oward .inclusion of subject on security index and proving possible 
violation of law. Exp.edite inves:tigation where military has 
referred case. 
If admissible.evidence developed Boes not warrant submission of 
prosecutive summary rep,ort, submit results of investigation in 
investigative report. 
LNW ~321 Docld:32989529 Page 745 
21 
11-13-62 
