13-00000 
r 
DOO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
counterpart to the U.S. Peace Corps. Such volunteers are sent to the U.S. 
for a period of service in schools and community develop·ment programs. 
. The name· of. the organization may vary by country. 
8. OPERATIONAL USE REQUIRES APPROVAL BY CHIEF OF AREA 
DIVISION 
Operational use of any individual in the categories listed in this paragraph 
is considered· of such sensitivity as to require special consideration and ap­
proval by the appropriate • Area Division Chief. This authority may not be 
delegated. The request for approval will be by memorandum in which the 
individual's covert approval status will be described, together with a concise 
explanation of the intended operational use. 
a. Citizens or Alien Residents of the U.S. Used in Denied Areas (see 
DOI 50-19) 
• The operational use _in denied areas of U:S. citizens, or of aliens who have·. 
been admitted for permanent residence or have resided for • a prolonged 
·period in the U.S., requires the prior approval of the Chief of the Area 
Division under whose jurisdiction the intended use is to take place. --••• -- .... ~--· ... • 
b. Non-U.S .. Citizen Delegates or Employees of the United Nations not As­
signed in the U.S. 
• The operational use of non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees ·of the 
United Nations who are not assigned in the U.S. requires the prior ap­
proval of the Chief of the Area. Division under whose jurisdiction the in~ 
tended use is to ta1ce place. 
· c. Members of the Academic Community 
( 1) Within the context of this instruction a member of the academic com-
• munity. is defined as: any student, faculty member, administrative 
officer or staff official of a college, university or similar institution of 
higher learning includi.p.g their associated research centers. Persons 
associated with institutions such as police or military training centers 
• ( except the four college-level military service academies) or under­
going specialized technical training with· business or commercial firms 
are not considered to be members of the academic community. 
( 2) Operational ·use of members of the academic community, espec'ially 
those cases .wherein an individual is to be made witting of Agency 
interest, will be on a highly selective basis. Each case will be examined 
to ascertain its essentiality to the DDO mission in terms of the price 
of pos~ible disclosure, and to ensure that proper security· procedures 
can be observed. When it has been determined that the operational 
use of a member of the academic community as defined above is 
1~ 
SECRET 
• I 
, 
I I 
:I 
I 
.i 
.•, 
·1 
j 
_., 
i 
! 
I 
-1 ; 
. ( 
i 
