l ... 
1;- OfO 
·, • ·• The Honorab!f John M. Deutch 
Novembef27, 1996 
Page3 
agency's compliance with'the JFK Act ("Statement of Compliance"), 
setting forth the steps that the agency has taken to locate and pro~ess 
assassination records. The Review Board recognizes that mariy of the 
relevant federal agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency, have 
previously written letters to the Review Board apprising it of their· -
progress at various stages of identifying and processing assassination;.;.,.,, 
records under the JFK Act. The Statement of Compliance, while it may 
include information previously reported to the Board, is to be the agency's 
comprehensive and final report to the American public of what it has 
done to locate records relating to the assassination. This Statement of 
Compliance shall include, to the fullest reasonablE; extent, the'"1ollowing 
information: • ., j 
a. A complete description of all steps that your agency took to 
identify and locate assassination records including, but not limited 
to, an identification of the major record collections and files that 
were consulted in the agency's search, any departmental file 
indices consulted, the names and titles of the persons who were 
responsible for conducting the searches, the physical loca,tions of 
the records that were searched, the off-site storage facilities (e.g., 
Federal· Reco~ds Centers) searched, the specific steps that were 
taken to locate and retrieve materials in archives, and any other 
criteria used by the agency to locate assassination records, 
b. A description of the steps that the agency took in direct response to 
specific requests_of the Review Board to locate certain additional 
records or information relating to the assassination. In particular, 
we ask that the CIA describe what specific steps it has taken to 
address the following requests: CIA-9, Publications and Analytical 
Materials (See David G. Marwell letter dated March 6, 1996 to Mr. 
John Pereira); CIA-11, Silvia Duran's Original Statement (See David 
G. Marwell letter dated May 3, 1996 to Mr. John Pereira); CIA-12, 
JMWA VE Materials (See David G. Marwell letter dated May 22, 
1996 to Mr. John Pereira); for HTLINGUAL records (See T. Jeremy 
Gunn Memorandum dated October 1, 1996 to Mr. Barry Harrelson); 
and for Monthly Operational Reports on Cuban Exile Groups (See 
Manuel E. Legaspi Memorandum dated October 17, 1996 to Mr. 
Barry Harrelson). 
