[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
D. 
SECTION 101. lcURITY INFORtlA.NTS AND coNFIDEN,AL souRcEs 107G - D 
8. Potential s eouri ty informan·i;s in espionage and foreign national•i ty cases 
many•times present special problems which limit or govern the scope of 
the initial investigation. (See instructions re contact oases and 
deseco program., section l05K,6b and 6h., volume IV, of· this manual.) 
How·ever~ where practical the abov-e items should be covered. 
9. Leads to obtain background data must be handled by auxiliary offices 
within 30 days. 
10. Investigation as 01itlined above must be completed prior to any request to 
guide, direct., and develop an individual as a potential informant. 
INTERVIEWS AND DEVELOPMENT OF POTENTIAL SECURITY INFOR1'1ANTS 
1: When background information obtained as described under subsection C, 
transmit results to Bureau in the same numerical sequence as set out 
in subsection C, and request authority to develop individual as a 
security informant. • 
2. When authority is granted by Bureau, steps should be taken to·develop 
his potentiality and he should be made aware of Bureau policy •. 
3. Carefully plan initial interviews as to time and location to prevent any 
embarrassment to Bureau. 
4. Do not interview f(;lmale potentials in their own homes or apartments unless 
necessary and all such interviews in their residences should be conducted 
by two Agents after specific approval of the superior in the field 
offic~ responsible for development of informants. This instruction is 
no.t ? :•.icable where active i·nvestigation has .established that the 
poter ... ,l informant is of good character, there is no indication of 
affiliation with subversive groups, and there will be no embarrassment 
to the Bureau, 
5. Except in espionage and foreign ··tionality matters where contact is 
maintained on a periodic basis ilnpendent on the circumstances of the 
c;vic, potential informants should be contacted personally at- least 
•"! •?. every two weeks in the same manner as informants. 
6. ;' • 1.se Bureau of progress being made at least every :four months. 
[L • ·.ers concerning potential informants who are not being paid on 
Bureau authorization should be submitted on a UACB basis, ]sh,mld 
contain informativ-e summary of information furnished during past fo¥r 
months, and must include certifications regarding potential.informant's 
stability and reliability and his indoctrination against disclosure. 
Thesc[letters should]follow the[form indicated]under section 107N, 3b, 
[but should omit item .(5) concerning payments and reword itemjl) to 
omit reference to _any payment recommendation.] (Refer to sec~ion 
105K~ 6h, (3}, (b'), volume IV, of this manual for exception to this 
rule in deseco matters.) . 
7. Post records of contacts with potential informants so that the oases will 
not become delinquent. 
8. During interviews with potential informants, if it de-velops individual 
cloes not have the necessary capabilities, discontinue ef:forJi;s. 
9. Po·l;en',;ial informant should have contaots, associates, or possibilities 
for engaging in activity through which he can obtain and furnish curren·I; 
info~mation of Bureau interest in security field. 
10. I:f individual does not have potential as above described but is willing 
to cooperate 9 consider indica~ing to him he can be of assistance if he 
places himself in a position where he may be able to obtain information 
of value. In this regard;. address of local headquarters of subversive 
organizations or meeting places of subversive groups may be mentioned 
·l;o the individual as places'. where it may be possible for him to obtain 
information if he so desires.; also, it may be mentioned that if he sub­
scribes to periodicals or fr~quents such places above mentioned, he may 
be a~proached or an interest·may be shown in him which,if de-veloped, 
vrnuld be the means whereby he. c.ould obtain information. 
11. Inforr:i potential informants l·,li.:o ··._agree to assist ·!;he Bureau that such 
assistance must be stric-',;ly voJ.:µ'.!?-'~ary and they are to understand that 
there is no ooercion or intimidat·;ion involved. . : 
5 
5-12-61 NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1520 
