[ 
L. 
[ 
• 
PART II 
• 
6K - L 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRES;:;, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Inol ud.ed in the index may be individuals in Government, busines·s, or 
industry. Do not include law enforcement officers unless they are. un-. 
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information. Set up 
the index alphabetically, geographically by st~tes and towns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alphabetically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. An index may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely locked and having locked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of infor~ation cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not having approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a looked, steel file cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in the field office. The cards shall pertain only to the 
territory covered; under such circumstances there shall.be no duplicate 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete 
[or when it is determined a source is deceased.] 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not remove 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information index[except when it has been determined that source is 
deceased, at which time general index card can be destroyed immediately. 
Under all other conditions the general index cards shall be retained for 
20 years subsequent to the removal of cards from the special source of 
information index.] 
2. Files 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparation of sources 
of information. • 
3. Security and extremist sources of information 
4. 
S.A.C 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Every six months a letter o~ justification (FD-4O1) should be submitted 
to the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and extremist 
sources of information. Follow instructions set out in section l3OR, item 
2b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions. If the security or extremist 
source of information is not being paid on Bureau authorization and is 
being used regularly, the Agent handling the source of information must 
dictate a memorandum to the SAC for the file containing the same certifi-
cation as to stability and reliability as required by payment letters. 
Gifts should not be given to sources since such actions might be mis­
construed. 
CONTACTS . 
SAG contacts are defined as persons who, because of their positions, can 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assistance to the FSI upon th~ request of the SAC~ 
A complete file review must be mac:e and an FD-9 submitted on each contact 
(file review on spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary unless 
special circumstances prevail). 
SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Request this aµproval by 
letter to the Bureau captioned 11 , SAC Contact•" Mark the letter 
for the attention of the[Training]Division. Use the following sub­
headings in the order given: 
a. Description of proposed SAC contact 
b, Services this contact can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Re3ults of Identification Division check 
f. Derogatory information 
g. Recommendation of SAC 
Submit an original and two copies, but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the communication. If the SAC contact is 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to the field. If the contact is not approved, a letter is to be submitted 
to the field stating why the individuaJ cannot be used as an SAC contact. 
7 
·2-27-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1057 
