13-00000 
.. 
page 3 
of the Board will be the person who will be closely working ~1th 
the . Executive Director. Thus, the Chair should be particularly 
involved in the selection process. 
III. Policy Issues 
1. Have you made any public statements -- oral or written 
regarding the·, assassination of President Kennedy or . the public 
availability of government records regarding this assassination? 
• No 
~. Members of the ARRB -will be examining security . cl(ssj,:,fied 
records with a view to their declassification and.pul;>li~ 
disclosure, in whole or in part, at some time in tlie. future. • 
a) Can you describe what prior experience you have had, if 
any, with using or examining security classified records o·f the 
Federal Government? 
As a member of the State Department Advisory Committee on 
Historical Documentation I have examined documents that have been 
deemed security classified (including intelligence documents) and 
have participated in discussions of disclosure of documents in the 
Foreign Relations of the United States series with desk officers of 
State who did not wish to see these documents published. I have 
also participated in meetings wi~ agency personnel whose 
responsibility included preserving national security related 
documents. 
b) What do you think of our current security classification 
system? For example, would ·you say it operates well, has integrity, 
and serves the public interests? 
The current system is extremely expensive, labor 
intensive and subjective in its implementation. It has resulted in 
an enormous backlog of documents over 30 years old and has further 
eroded public trust and government credibility. The current attempt 
to rewrite the Executive Order goveming the security 
classification system reflects the awareness of.the White House and 
executive agencies that the current system is no longer viable; it 
does not operate effici_ently, sacrifices the integrity of the 
record and does not, therefore~ serve the public interest. 
3. One of the duties of the ARRB will . be to determine what 
constitutes.an "assassination record". What criteria do you think 
should be used to make this determination? 
This will be o~e of the most difficult problems facing the 
Board. First, I think ·I would seek information from the agencies on 
what they regarded.as an assassination record. Second, since this 
goes to the heart of public c:onfidence, I think this is a question 
that probably should be the subject of an open hearing. Currently 
my sense is that the Board ~ill have to determine parameters for 
