Wiley was sent his first check covering the index pro­
ject on 9 April 1956. By 22 May 1956, he had met Morse 
Allen . 
. McCord further reported on 1 May 1956 that during dis­
cussion with 1'/iley he told \•lj ley that there are three areas 
in which he could work during the coming year (1~56-57) 
which would be of interest and would enhance his value to 
CIA. One would be the continuation of the index project, 
another would be the continuation of regular contact with 
his sources of information in New York City, keeping CIA 
advised of anything that may be pertinent to our areas of 
interest. The third would be the building for him a cover 
story which would enable him to contact and interview various 
ex-Co1;1,;1unists and ex-Soviet agents in the New York area. 
Wiley told McCord that he, Wiley, was in contact with 
Herbert Philbrick during the spring of 1956, and asked 
McCord to work on getting him, Wiley, some (American) 
Legion credentials. Wiley also enclosed reports on one 
Alexander Koral. He stated he had begun taking Russian. 
~a.:,u~uC:..~~ !..:..::::!r .. : £°!"-:'~ ~ Pn~s.18n ~irl \VOrking for NTS .. 
On 20 March 1957, McCord inforned his supervisor that 
Wiley's work on the index project would expire in Nay 1957. 
McCord indicated he would like tc use Wiley for another year 
on the indexing project. 
On 13 April 1957, Wiley tendered additional materials 
from the indexing project; a copy of an article by AlfTed 
Kohlberg, "A Red Dream"; an open letter to the President 
of the United States requesting either a new trial or par­
don for Morton Sobell, attaching a list of 200 signers; and 
a list of publications and organizations fighting Coremunism 
in the U.S. prepared by Herb Philbrick, given to Wiley. 
Wiley was advised that he may be called upon soon to work 
on some material on Soviet Espionage (David Dallin material, 
a noted author of books on Soviet Intelligence), requiring 
about one month's work; that he may be called upon to fol-. 
low the Albam (Jacob Alba3) trial developments in the press; 
and that an attempt would be made to renew his grant for 
another year. 
NW 50955 Docld:32203889 Page 13 
