( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
.,. iON 87. SECURITY INVESTIGll.TI ~ • 87C 
d 0 Other Marxist revolutionary groups 
A long-established group which would come under this category is the 
Proletarian Party of .A..rnerica, a relatively small organization. 
There also are a few small groups compose~ of ex-members of the 
Communist Party, USA, who have volunt~.rily left the p;l.rty or who 
have been expelled, usually for factionalism. 
e., General 
Communist investigations. must be conducted in a most discreet and 
thorough manner at all times., Members of law enforcement agencies: 
are not to accompany Agents during the course of security-type 
investigations vii tho-ut prior Bureau authority. Bureau employees 
should not discuss communist or related investigations with any 
unauthorized individualo The subject of communism is not to-be 
u,sed in speeches of Bureau employees without specific authorization. 
However, there is _considerable mimeographed material in each offic~, 
including speeches, testimony, and magazine articles prepared by the· 
Director whic~ ·could be furnished outside individuals interested in 
the subject of communism without any discussiono 
Purpos-es of investigation 
ae The investigation of the Communist Party, US.A, and other s-imilar-type 
organizations is of twofold purpose: (1) to obtain legally admissible 
evidence against these orga~izations for prosecution under existing 
Federal statutes set out ah°"'-ve and (2) to follow closely the activities 
of these organizations from an intelligence viewpoint to have a day­
to-day appra~sal of the strength, dangerousness, and activities of 
these organizations seeking the overthrow of t.he U. s. Government. 
b., Suggestions for proper covera-ge of the investigation of the Communist 
Party as an organization and similar organizations should include: 
(1} The assignment of sufficient .A.gent personnel to xnsurc that all 
of the important ramifications of party activities are properly 
covered 
(2) Develop~ent of confidential informants in all party levels, 
(3) 
(4) 
including the national headquarters organization 
T_he establishment of trash and mail covers on· pertinent head-
quarters and party functionaries • 
The constant effort to develop admissible evidence against party 
officials for violation of Federal laws 
c., Brief to establish illegal .status .o.f c;:ommu.nist Pa:rty:, US.A. 
(1) Purpose of brief is to coltect all leg~lly admissible evidence 
to prove illegality of party in one file. (Bufile 100-3-74.) 
(2) Reports on brief to establish illegal-status must be submitted 
by each office quarterly and should !nciude- only l~gally 
admissible evidence obtained during-·preceding thre-e-month period. 
[If there is no information to report, inc1ud e a s·tatemen t to that 
effect in the cover pages of the ·quarterly report for the same 
period entitled "Communist Party, US.A, Internal Security - C11 
(no copy needed for Bufile 100-3-74).] . 
(3) It is advisable to use the following breakdown in ~reparing 
reports: . .. 
(a.) Origin.and continuity of the party: 
(b) Pertinent statements> writings,and instructions relating, to 
• • {1} tla:rxism-Leninismf· (2) imperialism, ( 3) proletarian • 
internationalism, {4J defense of ~SSR, (5) revolutionary 
statements • 
{o)"- Internal Security Act of 1950. Include under this· 
headinJ any admissible evidence which would tend to prove 
a violation of section 4(a) of this act. 
5 
3-13-63 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page -691 
