) 
) 
\ 
INVESTIGATIONS OF sunVER~. 
ORGANIZATIONS AND INDIVIDWS 
87E 
b. This would include leaders of organizations whose aims include the over­
throw or destruction of the Government of the United States or the 
government of any state, territory, district, or possession thereof,,.. 
or the government of any politic-al subdivision therein, by unlawful 
means. The term "leaders" denotes those individuals, irrespective 
of tj.tle, who are in a position to significantly influence the 
policies or direct the activities of the group. Mere membership 
in an organization, v1ithout the element of leadership or without a 
demonstrated willingness and capability described in paragraph a, 
is not sufficient for inclusion in ADEX • 
. c. Individuals should be considered a "current threat" to the national 
~ecurity when reliable information has been developed that they have 
engaged in activity or exhibited the requisite willingness and capability 
falling within the above-described criteria during prior two years 
and there is no indication they have ceased such activity. However, 
there may be instances where retention of an individual in ADEX is 
justified even though no pertinent information is available during 
the prior two years. For example, such retention rai?ht be wa~r~nted 
in the case of individuals who have gone into hidingLor]temporarily 
left the country. [Following guidelines should be followed with 
respect to imp~isoned subjectso If already on ADEX and sentence is 
such that the earliest possible release date from actual incarcera-
tion .is more than two years after sentencing, subject should be rec:.. 
ommended for removal from ADEX. If poss1ble, stop should be placed 
with facility where incarcerated so office will receive notifica-
tion of release, after which subject should be considered for pos-
sible reactivation on ADEX. Whether or not a stop can be placed, 
necessary administrative procedure should be set up so that sub-
ject's continued incarceration is verified at least every six months. 
If case is not pending, it should be placed in a pending inactive 
rather than closed status. If a subject under investigation appears 
to qualify for ADEX but is under sentence for over two years as de­
scribed above, do not recom.mend for ADEX but follow procedures 
described above to consider for ADEX upon release from imprisonmento 
Sentences which permit releases in less than two years should be ignored 
as a factor in considering ADEX status. These guidelines are for 
application only as to ADEX status and have no bearing on whether or 
not subjects should be investigated. For those cases in a closed 
status at time these new guidelines become effective, they should be 
brought in line with the new guidelines when the cases are next 
reviewed for any reason.] . 
d. ADEX should not include individuals who may be ideologically committed 
to a philosophy which calls for the downfall of our form of government 
or which favors another form of society but who have not shown a current 
willingness or capability of engaging in meaningful action to promote 
their beliefs. This might apply, for example, to rank-and-file members 
-of the Socialist Workers Party or the Communist P.arty, USA, or other 
old-line revolutionary groups which have advocated an overthrow of 
our present form of government but where subject's activity is 
primarily ideological in nature and not oriented toward action. Each 
case should be reviewed on an individual basis in the light of the 
criteria enumerated above. 
3. Recormnendation for preparation of ADE.,"'C card 
a. When dangerousness of subject has been established, office of origin 
should prepare recommendation on FD-122, in triplicate. Forward 
original and copy to FBIHQ, and place copy in· subject's file. 
b. Attach additional page or pages to FD-122 setting out succinct 
summary of facts on which recommendation based. 
c. Nonprosecutive summary report should be submitted when subject is 
recommended for ADEX unless one was previously furnished to FBIHQ. 
In latter instance, submit up-to-date report. 
d. 'Do not delay recommendation for ADEX because of absence of complete 
background or descriptive data. 
19 
2-13-74 
NW 38321 -Docld:32989529 P~ge 1835 
