. ., - . ·•·· .. 
. . 
. \ .. 
j 
_.,..,.· 
charged by information with the interstate transportaion of Taylor's automobile. 
I 
Spears waived indictment and entered a plea of guilty o His bond was continued 
at $35,000, and February 15, 1960, was set as the date for sentencing. • 
l 
Physical evidence from the crash 'jg extremely sparse.· Since the 
examination of the limited physical material fotu?-d did not indicate an • 
explosion or the reason for the crash, it .,vas hoped that the plane could . 
be located in the Gulf. If the plane could be found and examined, . it might 
reveal some definite physical evidence of the cause of the crash, particularly 
if a bomb was involved. On January 28, 19.60, salvage operations were begun .. 
by the Navy in the Gulf of Mexico after sonar contact had located_ an object 
l 
which was thought to be the plane. · On February 5, 1960-, however; the Navy 
discontinued salvage operations without locating the downed aircrafto • 
Following an interview with an abortionist in Dallas, Texas, who 
formerly associated with Dr. Spears, the l\1iami.Offi_ce advanced the theory 
that Spears might have been in Tampa on November 13 to 15, 1959, for 
the purpose of preparing an -~bortion formula through a process which involves 
the cooking of dynamite to obtain nitroglycerin, and that Spears might have 
prevailed on Taylor to transport the formula to Dallas by plane in Spears' 
• place. The explosion, if there was one, might have resulted from an 
accidental explosion of the abortion for mu.la. The Laboratory has considered 
this theory and has advised that it knows of no instance of the use of · 
} nitroglycerin in preparations utilized to p·roduce abortions. In addition, 
during a reinterview with the Dallas abortionist, he advised that all of_ 
the ingredients used by Spears in his abortionformula were stable and not 
volatile or explosiveo 
' 
All persons contacted in this investigation have denied any knowledge 
· of the wilful destruction of the plane. Nevertheless our investigation is being 
pre_ssed to determine full facts and to uncover any violations of Federal laws 
which might have occurred. The United States Attorney at Phoenix has been 
l 
kept fully advised and has under consideration the question of whether a_ • • 
prosecutable Federal case for mail fraud exists against Dr. Spears, his wife 
and/or Dr. Turskao . · . _ · •• 
-
) 
As of February 8, 19 60, twenty-five investigative reports in this case 
have been made available to the Depart1nent and to the Civil Aeronautics Board. 
NW 
