SF 10 0 -•4 6 8 3 2 
WEH: j b 
for the Study of Democratic Institutions, 
Santa' Barbara, was going to donate $10,000 • 
for a peace candidate and it was expected·· 
that this·· money would be , gi yen to the . . .· 
campaign run by SCHEER .of' Berk
1
eley. TAYLOR 
fe 1 t thet some of this money should go to , • 
a candidate· in Southern Ca~ifornia ,. if possible. 
SF T--50 .· 
February _B,1966 
The PW issue of February 12, · 196 6, contained an 
·a.rticle headlined"A New Campaign Tackles Old Issues," 
written by CARL BLOICE~ Thi~ article .gives histbrical 
background of the City of Oakland, California and the 
problems faced by the poor people ..,in that city. It then 
ci~tes how DANIEL SIMON, M. T). had sent hundreds of letters 
to Berkeley, California dur::_ng the wekk of June 22,_ 1965, 
pointing out tha.t Congressman JEFFREY COHELAN had failed 
to take a. stand in opposition to United States par'ticipation • 
in the war in Vietnam, ·and enclosed cards addressed to • 
Congressman COHELAN appealing' to COHELAN_to·speak·out 
strongly in Congress for a cease fire and international 
negotiations through ·the United Nations. The cards also 
stated that unless COHELAN took such action, he wduld be 
·opposed for re-election. By August 1965-, there had been 
750. cards processed and returned to Dr. SIMON. v-Then. 
Congressman COJ-IELAN failed to spe·ak out in Congress .opposing 
US involvement ih Vietnam, certain People began.searching· 
for a. candidate to oppose him •. ROBERT S.CHEER agreed to 
oppose COHELAN. Some of hi:, supporters left the organization 
be·cause SCHEER refused to ·shave off his beard and others . . 
left the organization because SCHEER refused to exclude Communists fror 
. his campaign. committee. 'l'he article stated ROBERT SCHEER ' • I 
• had the. endorsement· of the VDC as well as a sizeable portion " 
of the community, and was not ·ce·ntered among the college 
~tudents. • • 
In early 1966, two functionaries of the CP discussed • 
•• the forthcoming trip by ·scHEER to Southeast Asia and':his 
desire to go to North Vietnam. Both functionaries agreed 
Page 
