I • 
MF.MORANDUM FOR: 
SECRET 
Security Infor.mation 
(See distribution below) 
25 June 1953 
SUBJECT : .Report On The Cold War Use 0£ Radio Broadcasting by CIA 
lo We have made a complete survey of the use of' radio broadcast ... 
inr • in the eold war mission. of CIA.D The essential parts. of the report 
and recommendations are contained in the attached .memorandum dated . 
15 May 1953 and entitled ·"Report On the Cold War Use of Radio • Broadcast= 
ing by CIA" o (.Operational information and other sensitive .matter con .... 
tained in the original.$ but deleted ·rrom .. th~ atta_ched, ilill _be seP­
arately .supplied where ap~opriate to .the in~ercated area div~sionso) 
. 2,. The policy outlined in the .attached .memorandum has baen approved 
by the;Deputy Director for Plans» who has directed the following actions: 
ao Undertake$ in collaboration l;fith each area division, a 
country by country analysis of all indigenous broadcastine and 
television systems for the purpose of devising plans for their 
penetration, where feasible, or-an explanation where it appciars 
not to be feasibleo • 
bo Develo~ and submit; :in collaboration with the appropriate 
personnel ,and training offices, a plan for the .recruitment and 
traini.ng of of fieers qualified for covert broadcasting opere,tions o 
Co Explore vith the State Department the possibilities of a 
joint undertaking to explo$.t 1'ul1Y.o in the. interest 'of aff'i.ciency 
and economyD materiru. .derived from escapee interrogations and other 
intelligence sources~ coyert as well as overt 9 to support all UoSo 
propar.anda ~i'fo:r.ts,. 
do Develop and recommend9_ in collaboration with area di11iai0ns» 
an inroroved method for the issuance and dissemination of policy 
·guidance to'. the field., 
I 
eo Prepare and submit 9 in collaboration with General McCLella.nd0 
a project to produce broadcasting devices capable of electronic 
intrusi.on into Communist broadcasts; to develop special techniques 
for t.heir uses and to continue research and development or other 
unconventional methods of broadcasting suitable to our missiono 
Jo Chief of Op: f"fH,iona, 
SF.CR.ET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424022 Page 2 
0 
