13-00000 
SECRET 
office on the telephone, that whole story - makes no 
sense, makes no sense at all without an assassination 
plot in the background. And the worst thing to me, and 
looking at that damn report again, why they didn't say, 
when the President and Rusk said "Trinidad looks too 
professional, find some other place." ... At that point I 
would have just blown my stack. Bissell may not be the 
kind of person to blow his stack, but anyway I would 
have blown my stack. If you want a non-professional 
job, then go pick some people off the street and do a 
job. I mean, we're professionals. If you don't like 
what we are doing, fine; go get somebody else, but I 
would never have agreed to move from Trinidad to a 
place that has to have an airfield on it, that's going 
to take B-26's when everyone knows there is no such 
place on the bloody island. So they found a little 
spot of' ground near the Bay of Pigs after spending four 
days looking at the maps. That's crazy. It makes no 
sense at all. And why Bissell went along with all this 
stuff. Again, from a purely management point of view 
and organizational point of view, Bissell never used 
Hawkins the way he should have as a staff officer for 
Christ's sakes. You take your staff officer to the 
meetings with you; You don't know the details - you 
are not the guy who knows military tactics or strategy, 
for God's sakes. Bisseli may be great at U-2'S and SR-
71's, and he may have been able to put all the ships in 
his head during the war, but you don't know military 
tactics artd strategy. 
MW: Hawkins was at those meetings. Hawkins came out here 
about a month ago - Lee Strickland [CIA Information and 
Privacy Coordinator] had him out. Hawkins said he was 
at the meetings but he wasn't allowed to talk. He said 
it was agony because he just sat there and watched 
Bissell mangle the military aspects and he was 
wondering why the Joint Chiefs, some of them who were 
there at the meetings, didn't speak up - why the 
Generals who were advising Secretary of Defense 
McNamara didn't speak up. He found out afterward from 
a classmate of his (because he was a Marine - and he 
had a classmate from some military class who was on the 
staff of General Shoup, the head of the Marine Corps) 
that McNamara wouldn't allow any of them to talk 
either. They were afraid; they were cowed, and they 
wouldn't speak up for fear they'd show up McNamara. 
SH: It was worse than I thought it was. This is 
ridiculous. You don't run an operation that way. 
6 
SECRET 
