( 
:c 
( 
[ 
( 
• ( 7) 
{ 9) 
SF.CURI'l'Y rnin:sTIGATI01 
• 
87D 
in a key facility, copies of reports bearing the dual character, 
11Secur5ty of Goven1ment Employ<H:i:; Security l1atter - C, 11 should 
be furnished to appropriate intelligence agencies of the armed 
scn·vice:, by the field offices as[ shorm]in sections 69, [volume III, J 
and 87D 7c {2),(of this manual.] 
Spec5fio instructions with rega 7d to a~l p112.~es of ~ur r:s·pons~­
bil i ties under Exe cu ti ve Order 10450, inoludJ.ng pol icy, inve nti­
gative procedures, and dissemination are set out in section 69, 
(volume III, ]of this manual. 
Individuals l'lho own property or reside in the immediate vicin:i.ty 
of an installation or other premises under the cognizance of~ 
branch of the armed services 
Dissemination should be made locally to the intelligence service 
of the military branch involved, 
Airmen issued certificates by Federal Aviation £:ency 
Federal Aviation Agency issues certificate:; to alrmen wh6 ar~ . 
. defined as persons in command or acting a:; pilot, mechanic., or 
member of the crew in the navigation o~ aircraft while ui;ider 
way; individ,ia.ls directly in charge of the inspection, ~ainte­
nance, overhauling, or repair of aircraft, aircraft engines, 
prorcllers, or appliances; and any individual serving in the 
capacity·of aircraft dispatcher or air-traffic control tower 
operator. Subversive data developed concernirlg per~ons within 
such definitions should be furnished to the Bureau by report or 
letterhead memorandum suitable for dissemination, together with 
cover communication recommending that such data be furnished 
to Federal Aviation Agency. Such dissemination will be made 
only at the Bureau. 
[Security index -. dissemination of information to Secret Service 
Letterhead memoranda are to be disseminated to Secret Service in 
all security index cases.' These letterhead memoranda should 
contain background data on the individuals involved, residence; 
employment, and a description. They should contain ~ny infor­
mation indicative of emotional instability or any factors 
indicative of a propensity for violence, as well as any infor­
mation indicating that the subject is in possession of firearms. 
The above should be followed by a succinct statement concerning 
the subject's affiliation with or participation in a subversive 
·movement. They are not to contain any :i;-eference to .. the security 
index program. • • 
Dissemination of these letterh~ad memoranda to Secret Service 
will be made both at tt~ Bureau and in the field following 
. review at the Bureau. ~iubmit in quadruplicate under the 
individual caption. • • :t.ructions regarding dissemination in 
tlie field will be iss~ ~ after Bureau review . 
.A.fter initial submissioII of letterhead memoranda in seou:rity 
index cases, as changes occur in the· status of the individuals 
involved with respect to residence and employment,. advise Secret 
Service locally and furnish two copies of the letterhead 
memorandum to- the Bureau f'or dissemination at the SOG. - The 
• letterhead memorandum should· contain a reference to the previous 
communication disseminated to Secret Service. 
For instructions pertaining to dissemination to Secret Service 
in other than security index cases, refer to section 83Y, 
volume _III, of this manual. 
Copies of letterhead memoranda prepared in security index cases 
should be retained in the individual case files only. 
Upon transfer of office of origin in one of these cases, the 
new office of origin is to furnish Secret Service locally with 
pertinent data concerning the subject and advise the Bureau 
that such has been done by the submission of two copies of 
the letterhead memorandum disseminated looally.J 
"' 
81 
5-11-64 
