· SECRET 
Betsy Palmer 
Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - XVIII 
April 6, 19'[8 
VOllJME V - April 1961 - July 1961 
t-1. Cable :f:rom JMWAVE to Bell 
Date: April 3, 1961 
Ray meets with Olien and said he was not a.s yet prepared to join~~ Said 
Miro had welshed on commitments and: while wiDing to accept Ray into CRC, 
not wiJ Jing to give him any voice in the Council. Olein apptempts to 
convince Ray he ·was doing great disservice to CUba.n people by refusing to 
serve "W'i thin i1R.Oo 
2. Cable to JMWAVE from Bell 
Date: A;pril 4, 1961 
"To test actual MRP capabilities inside request you inform Ray to hit 
targets G, I and K during period 5-10 April. Attack target O iacluding 
diesel locomotive engines immediately. Will forward additional. targets if 
Ray shows any capability. 11 
3. Letter to :&liter {Pencilled note: Propaganda against MRP by .A:t:time's 
-X-replacement Jose Manuel Hernandez Puentes received from QD Date 6 Apr 61.) 
11
I am a CUba.n who still thinks that Guba can be rehabilitated after the fall 
of Castro. For this reason many CUbans have been baffled by the list of 
names now given as the saViors of Guba for a Provisional Govre rnment. Among 
these are such notorious Castro followers as: Rey, Barquin, Pazos, Rufo 
Lopez Fresquet, Chibas and others whose nanes remind us of a.n era of 
mourning, persecution and rnisery.
11 
~ 4. Report on Manuel Ray received from Enrique Molinet, a road and airfield 
. construction engineer under Batista regime. Cover note dated 4/7/61. 
Molinet outlines his distaste for Ray, citing at the beginning his refusal 
to leave Castro even after the questionable suicide of his brother, Rene. 
After Ray was ousted from his Cabinet job, he continued to v:i.si t Castro, 
occupying a prominent position in a.11 Castro's public appearances. Said 
that even before Castro, Ray was an active member of the CUban Orthodox 
Party, higb.]y infiltrated With conmrunists. Claims that when Ray in his 
Cabinet position, indoctrinations programs were held ex:pousing conn:;runistic 
ideals. Also while Minister of Public t-,orks, claims he (Ray) threw out 
hundreds of employees without due cause and destroyed every successf'ul 
contractor that existed. 
Memorandum for the Record 
subject: Custody of Revolutionary Council, 19-20 April 1961 
Signed: Robert F. Moroney 
Date: 24 April 1961 
Relates that on 19 April 1961,. President Kennedy r:1et with the six members of 
FIID' s Revolutionary Council where President expressed his deep sor.cow and. 
concern over the failure of the military effort (Bay of Pigs). Ray one of the 
group. 
SECRET 
