13-00000 
/ 
: ha hcndlincs in A~1crican newspapers have for years told of Army 
.,, ,·, ill,mca of civilians, U.S. i;py planes being !hot down over other 
c .• ;1 ie~. attempted coups and intrigue initiated by the CIA and 
1111 .,:rained FBI wiretappino. Wo all know that Big Brother is 
:· :,.l1ir1!J, but no one in our government has tak:;in the time to explain 
,,,,_, is being spied upon, and why we are being watched. Too often, we 
1;11,!ricnn citizens don't oven know who Bio Brother i,. 
:11 1955, President•Eisenhowcr accapted the report of the Hoover 
:,111:,nission C'n U.S. lntelligonce. Amorio other recommendations, the 
;, ,;,1,nis:;ion om~hasized the need for two "watchdog" ,ommittens on 
11,::;igr:nce within tho executive and lcg:slativo branches of 
,,., • ,11rnent. Althou9h a Fornion Intelligence Advisory Board (FIAB) 
1: ~ ·st :bli,hed to s~rve the President, Con9rest by an overwhelming 
~-, •. lity has rcfus.."Cl to er.rabll5'1 a committee within the legislative 
: . "I h. Now, in tho midst of the Watergate sc:andals, there is some 
·:1'":•:m•mt within Congress to establish comnittecs on the separate 
·.rdli!JP.n~e agencies. The result will be divided oversight with no 
: :.": a nee that Congress will he ,1ble to stop illegal and unjustified 
1••.·i· .g. With Congress cibrogating its res1>onsibilities, there is no ag~ncy 
,I ')0vnmmont, dirl!clly r,~!>ponsible to the public, monitoring ; tho 
J,,,,_,!d Stales lntclliuimce Community. 
r-iow former intelligence workers and concerned citizens havo 
m ··, :oo a national association to provide the vita· informdtion an aware 
11:l,!ic needs to know about governnumt oncrations. The Committee for 
1,.'im1iRosearch on the l~telligenca Community (CARIC) is an 
) _,, ncndent "watchdog" on the government s11y apparatus. CARIC, 
,;~1: ,~;ored entire I\• by donations from American citizens, serves as an 
,,. rn,Ui\'U sourco of analysis and inforrna:iun on the practices, . 
. , ·,ariizntion and objectives of U.S. lntellig,mce. What clandestine 
p•:·iltiom, are bP.in9 c.,rricd out in the ndme of AmP.rica? Is the CIA 
, •i:;,rbg to entangle us in another war !Jimil.ir ro the Indochina War? 
,,,,.,, information is g-Jing into Federal, Stale, local and private data 
,·;·-L.s on innocnnt Arne:rican citizen1,? Is the FBI becoming a ''secret 
'" ::•:-, force?" Who'io phones are tapped in America? These are some of 
h • r:ucstionl> CARIC isani.wering. 
t.l'.RIC knows that all conscientious America1s are closely watching 
,. ::vents that have unfolded since the arrests made al the Watergate 
:• ,ii· ling. Wo 5haro the hope of mosl Americans that tho illegal 
'Ti.,na'.JI! practices that hilve now '"Jen expos•.JCI will no longr.r be a part 
:. ,n,:ric:;in political life. HL-wevn. the tlismar.lling of one espion.1gci 
· ·•,·,,t-Ir.val to onr. ~rou1-1 of ,-...,1i1ici,ms dces 1101 insure that this auuw 
;,::·.•ii.:r \'!ill not hP. 1L·r,r.:11ed j,y future politician:.. 
... . 
• 
Who knows what future political espionage will occur under tho 
guise of so-called "national security" or loyalty to an administration? 
Only tima will tell, but through diligenco and your help CARIC will 
anticipate and bring to your attention situations within the government 
that are likely to produc, a new "Watergate." 
Although CARIC does believe th;1t a massive government spy 
apparatus is at ~ork in tho world, we hope to dispel some· of tho 
paranoia citizens naturally foel when there is talk of spies and wiretaps. 
We knQw that the FBI does not have agents behind every tree, but there 
arc a9onts in overy major community in this country who have Sf>icd on_ 
innocent private and public citizens. Only a full and undisguised look 
Into this hidden world can displace unwarranted fears, and guide the 
public effort to end this illegal and unjustified espionage. Th, iecrecy 
with which th, govammant w"ounds itself must ind. 
.. 
CARIC knows that tens of thousands of American citizens from all 
walks of life were mobilized over the past decade to help bring an end 
to the government's war in Indochina - a war that has taken new forms 
under the direction of U.S. Intelligence agencies. CARIC hopes that 
these same concerned citizens will continue to oppose the policies of 
our government which bring this new form of covert war and the 
Watergate scandals. It is now time for thousands of Americans to 
mobilizo to stop the spying as we stopped the dying. Please join us in 
our effort. 
THE COMMITTEE FOR ACTION/RESEARCH 
ON THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY (CARIC) 
INTELLIGENCE 
REPORT 
• CARIC ORGANIZATION 
CARIC is organized to reflect the operating procedures of a typical 
intelligenco organization. Our research process involves collecting 
information from a wide variety of sources both public and private. Our 
an,1lysis Is the collr.ctivo product of CARIC participants and eliminates 
;my compartmr.ntali.:.ilion of knowlc.'C.lge. The information and our 
;111c1lysi:. is then clisscrnim1lr.cl through CARIC publications and separate 
l~rks by CAR JC participant5. In addition, CI\RIC providC& information 
p other journalists and quali~icd researchers. 
• INTELLIGENCE DOCUMENTATION CENTER (1DC) 
CARIC is continuously collecting inrormation on ir,tellipencc from a 
variety of source=, - including oUicial oovcrnmunt . oubli :atio1s illld 
documents, previous investigations, public account.; arlf iat.:irvillWS 
conducted with hundrc.-ds of former into!ligllnce and 11olice ager ts. Tho 
information forms the dala-ba5e of tho lntelligenc1! Oo,:umeitatiun 
Center maintained by CARIC. The IDC is ii libt¥-Y cf infnrmo.ion •>n 
U.S. lntelligcnco available upon request to Journalia1s, q Jaliliad 
researchers and members of CARIC. 
• SPEAKr:Rs BUREAU ANO WORKSHJPS 
CARIC maintair:i a listing of members ,1vailable to ~pu,1k before 
groups on a variety of subjects ran!)ing from tl)e foreign intclligc'lce 
programs of our government to the problems of criminal i•Jsticn in this 
country. Our spec.1kers include former in1elli9ence workers, 1>nlico 
agents and informers and others familiar with American intdlige1co. 
CARIC will p:.riodically conduct work~ops fc r ch.1rch, labor, 
school or community organizations. Workshop topics :r.clurle: 
• OPERATION PHOENIX - CIA a~c;.1s.r,ination in Vir:tnan-
• SALEM HOUSE - Preparation for tho coup in Canihodii 
• The CIA in Laos 
• OPERATION BOULDER -An introduction to tht: ne<t A nerican 
war 
• R ight•wing terrorism in America 
• Federal Planning for civil disturl>anccs: Riots and d ~mor-slrat;on-. 
• The Internal S111.~rity apparatus and Watergate 
o MULTI-MEDIA BRIEFING 
CARIC will. soon augment our workr,hops with a mulli•tM:lia 
briefing on U.S. inLelligcnce featuring film~. video t>f)C'i, 1li!:~1 ay1 met 
recorded interviews. The exhibit will dramatically illl stral1! lntr:lliei:ncc 
as practiced bv our go;,crnment. Our hope is to cre,u a sup~r-cun!il:ious 
realization by our audience of the concepts presented in th: dis11la\·. 
The first clement of the multi-mcdi.i briefing is a slide :.hov-• trn-;ing 
the growth of lhc i111cr nal security apparo.1111s of our gm C"rnn ont imcl 
demonstrating how thi~ :,ppiir,1tus inllvt!m:iid the 't'.;!H'•"Jillt' !CM his. 
The slide show tl·r111i11.:tes wi: h sugg!:,.tio,1~. r~,r lin,i: i110 f .,: L re !.IE \1th 
of thu internal s.?cu,·ity c1ppc:rc1t\ls. 
