13-00000 
CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS 
RELEASE It-~ FULL 
2000 
JFK Assassination Records Collection Act 
• Five year Effort; F.stimated 100 person years expended 
• Extraordinary Authorities/ Access/ ''non Precedent Setting Releases" 
• Processed over 14,000 CIA documents upon which the Board took 
direct action. 
• Transferred to the National Archives over 100,000 redacted pages for 
the JFK Collection. 
• Prepared a Declaration of Compliance with the Act, with a detailed 
accounting of CIA actions in response to the Board's requests .. 
• Negotiated a detailed Memorandum of Agreement among CIA, the 
JFK Board and the National Archives regarding the disposition and 
processing of all documents resulting from the five year review. 
• "'The Review Board considered the CIA's compliance with the JFK 
Act .... to be one of [the Board's] highest priorities." It is particularly 
significant that the board fully accepted the Agency's Declaration of 
Compliance and reported favorably on the Agency's activities in 
response to the Board. 6 
During FY 1998, compliance with the legal requirements of the JFK Act 
absorbed the preponderant portion of HRP resources. HRP completed necessary 
coordination with the JFK Assassination Records Review Board on behalf of the 
Agency, an ongoing process since FY 1994. HRP provided a central Agency 
focus for a process which: 
Coordinated with Board Staff on relevancy and classification on roughly 
250,000 pages (many duplicates) •• 
Processed over 14,000 CIA documents upon which the Board took direct action. 
Transferred to the National Archives over 100,000 redacted pages for the JFK 
Collection. 
Prepared CIA• s Declaration of Compliance with the Act, a detailed accounting 
of CIA actions in response to the Boards· requests. 
Negotiated a detailed Memorandum of Agreement among CIA, the JFK Board 
and the National Archives regarding the disposition and processing of all 
documents resulting from the five year review. 
The Board's report of 30 September 1998 states that '"The Review Board 
considered the CIA's compliance with the JFK Act .... to be one of [the Board's] 
highest priorities." It is particularly significant that the board fully accepted the 
Agency's Declaration of Compliance and reported favorably on the Agency's 
activities in response to the Board. 
6 
