R~: NWPC Policy Council Meeting 
-·--------- - -------
As the youth organization of the SWP, the 
YSA serves as the main source of recruitment into 
that organization. The YSA is described in the 
masthead of its official publication, "The Young 
Socialist Organizer," as "a multinational 
revolutionary socialist youth-organization." 
During the council meeting on June 24, 19 72,. ~-~ary 
Clarke, who is associated with the Southern California !WC, 
an affiliate of the NWPC! advised a group of ?Olicy council 
members that 'ivONA.2:\C had been using the Southern California WPC 
name as an endorser of WONl\..AC. Clarke also stated that t;·J()!JAAC 
had passed out propaganda at a caucus rally in California and 
were very effective at taking control of small gatherings. 
The Chairwoman from Nassau Countv in Ne\•T York, 'l.·rhose 
name was not recalled, defended WONAJ!.C statino that 
11
thev were 
a good group". T~is woman's position was not-su?ported ~nd, 
in aeneral, WONAAC literature was not accented bv those nersons J :. 
prese-nt. Jill Ruckelshaus, a new mel'!"ber of the Policy Council, 
is reportedly concerned about the SWP's attempts to align 
itself with the abortion roovenient and will be usin~ her newly 
gained position to fight SWP attempts at control of local 
WPC groups. 
The NWPC organizing brochure nuhlished by the m·lPC 
has been written to assist individual WPC aioups in oraanizina. J ~ .; 
T-he brochure lists political oarties and ~ara-nolitical 
oroanizations to be cont2.cted bv caucus oraanizers Fhen form.ina _,, ,.,, -
the nucleus of a WPC. Amonq those listed was the si,7p. After 
discussions at the caucus it ·was deterr.iined that the S1•JP sh.ouJ.d 
be removed from the 1::_st. The new edition o-1: the ~'!PC org2,ni zincr 
brochure will not list the S1•7P; it has been reolaced bv National. 
Peace Action Coalition (NP.AC). - • 
'l'he NP.AC was founded in 1970 by :rnemhers of the S'i?P. 
Its basic objec.tive is to unite masses of people 
including labor unions! Gis, ane tho black 
comrnuni ty in the struggle to end United St2.tes 
intervention in Southeast Asia through orderly and 
peaceful tactics. 
This docuMent contains neither rec0rn~endati0ns nor conclusions 
of the FDI. It is the nronertv of: the PBJ and· is loanc~c..1 to vo:.Jr 
agency; it and its contents ar·e not to be distributed out;:side 
your agency. 
·- 2* -
W 38321 Dodd:32989546 Page 242 '------------~ 
