Memorandum to Ur. W. R. Wannall 
Re: Senstudy 75 
DETAILS: 
• 
According to referenced memorandum, James Angleton, 
former Chief, Counterintelligence Operaiions, CIA, advised the 
FBI on 6/26/75 that he had recently te~tified under oath without 
_ counsel before three Senators and staff members of the Senate 
- Select Committee (SSC) . He was questioned cohcernin~ his knowl- l.S) 
edge of (Israeli capabilities to conduct.intelligence collectioi:!] 
in the United ~tates, including£puclear information] Angleton (S) 
stated he avoided any direct answers, advising thar--'any lmowledge 
he might have would be secondhand and fragmentary. He informed 
the SSC that questions concerning this matter might more properly 
be directed to the FBI. 
r/t r' \ Sens:tive technical source coverage by the fBI of the ~r-,:.tif'' 
Embassy of Israel, Washington, D. c., between Feb;ruary, 1969, and .1 
October, 1972, determined that Angleton, in his official capacity 
at CIA, had frequent personal liaison contacts with Israeli 
Intelligence Service (IIS) representatives at the Embassy of 
, Israel, Washington, D. c., involving the exchange of extremely 
sensitive information. This special relationship was confirmed 
by Angleton and other CIA officials during a meeting with an FBI 
representative on 4/3/69. At this meeting CIA representatives 
stated that this liaison with IIS was lmown by the White House 
and the U. S. State Department. {5) JP!((,')(&) 
At the present time the FBI has no pending investigation 
involving Israeli intelligence collection _capabilities in the 
United States. (S) , '--
The most current information in FBI files concerning 
this matter involved the investigation based on CIA information 
dated 11/14/GS concerning the establishment at the Embassy of 
Israel, Washington, D. c., of an Israeli technical intelli~ence 
networl":: directed by, Avraham Hermoni, Scientific Counselor. Hermoni, 
prior to his assignment as Scientific Counselor in Washinc;ton, 
D. c., was involved in the Israeli nuclear weapons proc;ram. The 
activities and contacts of Hermoni and colleagues at the Embassy 
were investigated through 1912. The investigations of th~se 
individuals were discontinued as no specific information was, 
developed to indicate that they had acted unlawfully or outside 
the scope of their official duties. (5) JF~ (,)(B) 
CONTINUED - OVER 
SECRET 1[ co~s) 
- 2 -
