QRMASTER (Cont'd) 
TPTONIC 
TPTONIC/FJINDULGE 
LPTONIC/ZRNACARAT 
ZRCANNY 
DTHABEAS 
to its manager with full expectatton of continued 
operation with heavy Agency subsidy. At the time 
of sale, substantial funds were removedtfrom the. 
entity leav-ing it without sufficient working 
capital. Consequently, the Agency arranged ·for 
. a line of credit through. a bank guaranteed by the 
funds removed from the entity. Subsequently, -
the manager, with Agency pennission, sold the 
entity to a group of foreign nationals. The .. 
manager formed his own corporation which contracted 
with the Agency for services including the continued 
management of the company sold of which he was still 
president. A management dispute resulted in the 
removal of the manager from the first corporation 
and the bank seized the guarantee for the line 
of credit which had been drawn down and used as 
working capital· for the first entity. The manager, 
no longer supported by the Agency, is the channel 
through which the Agency is to receive repayment 
. of loans which arose out of the line of credit. 
So far, the Agency has received no payments. 
These three proprietary entities were part of a 
substantial radio broadcasting activity which 
was turned over to the Department of State for 
support and subsequently placed under the control 
of the Board of International Broadcasters for 
continued operation with Congressional support. 
This U.S. foundation type proprietary served as 
a funding mechanism for a labor organization 
supported by the Agency. In 1968 an assets 
plus a termination.grant were turned over to the 
group of U.S. businessmen who backstopped the· 
Agency entity. All Agency funds destined for the 
1abor union were transferred to that organization, 
and the Agency created a foreign funding company 
(QRSPIDER) utilizing the same businessmen to 
continue support to the uni_on. The foreign entity­
is still in being, although inactive, and will 
be dissolved after all tag end negotiations are 
concluded with the former management of the labor 
organization which continues in revised form 
without Agency support .. 
This proprietary non-profit entity was supported 
by the Agency until. December 1974 when all Agency 
funds were withdrawn and the furniture and-fixtures 
