[107B G SECTION 107. SECUiY INFORMANTS[AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES) 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
- ., 
Investigation of communist petition signers who are. ae;qu.ainted with 
Communist Party functionaries 
Be alert to receive any suggestions of plant executives and highly placed 
personnel who are reliable and friendly to the Bu~eau concerning members 
of subversive organizations who might cooperate with the Bureau or employ­
ees who might be willing to infiltrate a subversive organiz'ation. In the 
past such contacts have on occasion resulted in the plant's making avail­
able the services of an employee who already is an informant of the manage­
ment. • 
Personnel directors in plants frequently are able to advise of members of 
communist-dominated unions who retain their membership merely to hold 
their positions, 
With regard to both 10 a:nd 11 above, if possible, the official should 
suggest to the potential informant that he contact the Bureau rather 
than have an Agent originate the contact. 
Af-ter the Bureau has notified the armed forces of a communist in an indus­
trial plant having armed forces contracts, the communist frequently recants 
when he is informed of the charges and is facing the possibility of dis­
missal or _transfer to a nonrestricted position in the sa~e plant, At 
such a time, officers friendly to the Bureau sometimes suggest that 
the person advise the Bureau of his past activities, Be alert to take 
advantage of such cooperation when offered. 
Review of Communist Party registration records to ascertain what individ-
uals mer~ly regi~tered but never became active _ 
[" [19. 
( 17. 
Use of a reliable third party to make the contact with a possible inform­
ant when direct contact by an Agent is· ·inadvisable. ·Request Bureau to 
furnish the services of an individual who is available for such a co"ntact. 
Officials and employees of foreign establishments in the u. s. 
Employees of the United Nations Secretariat 
[ 18 0 Contacts (business, social, or otherwise) of foreign officials stationed 
in the ,J. S, [ 
[ 19. 
[ 
Individuals vrho because of background 1 employment 1 or social status are 
in a position of intellfgence interest to a foreign principal and who 
will undertake intelligence assignments under the guidance of the ( 
[ Bureau.· (See deseco programs section 105K,6hs volume rv, of this manual.)] 
[C. INVESTIGATION OF POTENTIAL[SECURITY]INFORMANTS 
·when a decision made to consider a particular individual for informant pur­
poses, background investigation must be conducted, This should consist of 
the following: 
. 1. Check of field office files for derogatory information, particularly 
of a subversive nature 
2. Discreet canvass of other informants to ascert~in if the potential inform­
ant is known to· current informants of your office 
3. Inquiries of discreet nature to obtain information concerning the individ­
ual's personal history (date and place of birth, etc.), patriotism, health, 
reliability, stability, integrity, general reputation, present and past 
employments, and business connections, Ba,ckground investigation must 
definitely establish that the potential informant can be utilized without 
any danger of future embarrassment due to instability or unreliability, 
Securing background• information from the poten-l;ial informant is not 
sufficient; the background of the individual must be established by the 
investigatton. • 
4. Check of local credit and arrest records, Obtain necessary data for 
the completion of an FD-9 form which should be transmitted ·l;o the Identi­
fication Division to obtain the record, if any, of the informant. 
5. Armed services record should be reviewed if the individual is a Yeteran. 
6. Check draft status or status in the armed forces reserYe. 
7. Domestic status and if any marital difficulties all details should be 
obtained. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1810 4 
) 
--- -----------------'-
