t 
I 
~ 
• L07I - X: • SEC'.l'ION 107. SE-RI.T~ INFORMANTS [AND C ONF_IDENTI.}, T S O~RCE SJ 
·~-:..~\ 
I 
(2. 
. f,. l 
Communications - use of u/mbols] • f4 
a. After Bureau is advised of the permanent symbol, in subsequent 
communications true name of informant should not be set forth; use 
symbol number. 
b. In all communications after the initial letter, Bureau and.field 
office file numbers for informant must be set forth. 
c. In ·communications between offices, the same procedure is to be 
followed. 
[d. Informants and sources entering another division] • 
(~) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis for Bureau business or for personal reasons 
should be referred to in initial letter to interested office 
e. 
·f. 
g_. 
h • 
i. 
( j. 
by true name.and symbol number if it is necessary for the other 
division to know the id·entity of the informant. Office receiving 
such letter should make.appropriate index cards and place same 
in "Informants and Sources in Other Divisions" index. Subsequent 
letters between interested offices may then identify individual 
-by symbol number only. 
(2) Individuals who leave the division where they have. been furnishing 
information and do not 'pla~ to return should be immediately 
discon~inued, their symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name should be used in all administrative 
·c orres ponde nc e. 
(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and remains 
active, his identity must still be protected.· 
:::::1 -communications, the teletype abbreviation for the field office,.: 
,;ymbol, and letter suffix 11s11 shall be shown to identify the informant; 
". g. , "NY 000-S, 11 
In com.~unications concerning a potential security informant, the 
name of the potential security informant and abbreviation "PSI" 
shall be used; e.g., "John Doe, PSI." 
Simj_larly, in communications relative ·to confidential sources, the 
abbreviation «cs11 should be usedJ e.g., "Richard Roe, CS." 
When symbol numbers are assigned to potential security informants, 
the designation should be as follows: "LA OOO-PSI." 
In communications relative to a confidential source having a permanent 
symbol number, the following should be used: "CS LA OOO-S," 
In espionage and foreign nationality matters the caption of the 
communication should show in addi 4,;ion a character and the country 
designation (i.e., I$ - R for· Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.}. 
This facilitates routing the mail at the Bureau.] 
J". INDEXING 
1. True names and aliases o! all informants, as well as the cover name 
or number assigned to them for informants• use in submitting their 
stateme1rt;s, but not their permanent Bureau symbol numbers, shall be in­
dexed in the general office indices in the same manner as any other 
name. 
2. These index cards should[sho\·t]·l;he file number of the informant and 
ftUch terms as "Informant" or 11Potential Security Informant" shall. not 
appear. 
K. INDICJ,!S 
l. Alphabetical name index and symbol number index 
a. Alphabetical name index . 
(1) In all offices all active potential security and security 
• informant cards are to be kept by the S.AC, ASAC, or security 
supervisor consistent with maximum security and best admin­
istrative p~aotioe, This is to be known as the alphabetical 
name index. 
(2) File these cards in alphabetical order and also include cards 
for security confidential sources. These cards should show 
•vhether the indi,idual is a potential informant, an informant, 
or a confidential source furnishing information on security 
matters. 
14 
2-12-60 
•· 
) 
) 
j 
I 
' i ., 
' •: 
:1 
! 
I 
l 
·l ! 
I 
I 
' 
I 
I 
I 
I ., 
~t 
l 
• li ;I 
ii 
