13-00000 
SECRET 
DOI 50-10 
DDO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
d. Officials, Representatives, or Employees of Communist Countries in the 
United States (see DOI 60-11) 
Prior approval of the Director or the Deputy Director for Operations is 
required for operational contact in the United States with or operational 
use of officials, representatives, or employees of the USSR, its satellite 
countries, Communist China, or any other country ·under Communist 
control. If, while in the United States, such individual is to be investigated, 
approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational purposes, the prior _ 
concurrence of the FBI will also be required in accordance with para-· 
graph 6.b., above. A/ATttJl\1$ 
e. Delegates or Employees of the United ~ • 
It is DDO policy that the operational use of delegates or employees of 
the United Nations, including those of its various "main organs and of 
its related intergovernmental agencies, is of such sensitivity as to require 
special consideration by the Deputy Director for Operations. In especially 
worthwhile cases wherein operational use of a particular UN individual 
is deemed essential for the accomplishment of the DDO mission, approval 
may be· ·obtained. In each case involving a non-U.S. citizen assigned in 
the U.S. or _a U.S. citizen wherever assigned, the prior . approval of the 
Deputy Director for Operations will be required. ( See paragraph 8.b. 
regarding use of non-U.S. citizen delegates or employees not assigned 
in the U.S.) If, while in the United States, the UN individual is to be 
investigated, approached for recruitment, or contacted for operational pur­
poses, the prior concurrence of the FBI may also ·be required as outlined 
in paragraph 6.b., above. 
f. Staff Members or Officia"ls of Red Cross Societies . 
The operational use of staff members or officials of the International Red 
• Cross or its affiliated national Red Cross, Red Crescent, or other equivalent 
societies requires special consideration and prior approval by the Deputy 
Director for Operations.· ODO ehiments should make every effort to avoid • 
the operational use of staff members or officia1s of Red Cross societies. How­
ever, when especially high priority objectives are at stake and alternative 
agent assets are not available, approval for the use of such individuals may 
be granted by the Deputy Director for Operations. • • 
g. Officia"ls of the Vatican State 
Operational.contact with officials of the Vatican State will be made only 
with the prior approval of the Deputy Director for Operations. Operational 
use of Vatican officials will be contingent on prior approval by the Deputy 
Director for Operations. 
h. U.S. ·Government Funded Professors, Lecturers, Students or Grantees 
U.S. oi foreign professors,_ lecturers or students and other persons partici­
pating in U.S. Government-sponsored academic, cultural, athletic or other 
IO .SECRET 
. 
I 
. . 
.,-..,..: 
~ I 
· - l i 
...... ,"I 
·! 
' I 
