I 
I 
I " 
'' i. 
' 
-------
• •-• • - • ... ~.,P , ••:. ·"• ~.-:.;, ,, •· ,•,; ,:a,.,·.,~. • 
RESUME 
Carolyn (Carole) V. Hansen Amato 
4201 South 31st Street, Apartment 317 
Arlington, Virginia 22206 
Horne Phone: 931-3669 
PERSONAL DATA: 
Office Phone: 225-4801 
Date of Birth: June 12, 1941. Health: Excellent Marital Status: Married 
EDUCATION: 
Graduated from Athens High School, Athens, Georgia - Commercial Course 
Stenotype Institute of Washington, D. C. 
Attained 1sq words per minute on the stenotype machine. 
Northern Virginia Community College, Alexandria, Virginia. 
Studied English, American Government and journalism, and earned 12 credits. 
I plan to take additional writing courses in the fall. 
SKILLS: 
Typing Speed: 100 wpm Shorthand Speed: 110 wpm 
Office equipment that I can op~rate: dictaphone, adding machine, hand 
addressograph machine, mimeograph machine, PBX, IBM Mag Card machine .. 
I have also kept a set of books for a trade association for five years. 
EXPERIENCE: 
May 15, 1975 - Present Assistant Legislative Aide to Congressman Bob Jones, Ala. 
Jan. 3 - May 15, 1975 
DUTIES: Answer all of the legislative mail, including· 
research, compose and type letters in final form. Pre­
pare daily legislative summary for Congressman Jones .. 
Also write press releases of grant announcements~ 
Executive Assistant to Congressman Carroll Hubbard·, Ky. 
DUTIES: Handled all project work for the First District 
of Kentucky, which included.U. S. Army Corps of Engineers 
projects, water and sewer projects, com1nunity projects, 
etc. researched, composed and typed responses to constituents' 
mail; dealt with state, local and federal government 
officials in person, over the phone and by mail;.Congress-
man Hubbard -was Chairman of the 94th Deinocratic Freshman .· 
Class, and I was in charge of all the work for that group, 
which included keeping the members posted on subjects of 
interest to them, setting up meetings, arranging for 
meeting rooms, press coverage, briefings and meetings with· 
government officials and others. Out of a staff of 11, 
I was one of three people who had "Capitol Hill" 
experience and was responsible for helping to set up the 
office. I set up the complete filing system for the office. 
Nov. 1967 - Jan. 2, 1975 Press Secretary to Congressman John W. Davis, Ga. 
Page 14 
DUTIES: Wrote weekly newspaper column; interviewed 
Congressman Davis for the weekly radio tape(this was. 
Mr. Davis' and my favorite part of the week), duplicated 
