. [ 
107R-S 
\ .\ 
SECTI01'!' 107. .CJRITY IN"FORI1ANTS .A.ND co~:HDEN~tt, SOURCES. 
3. Index 
a. Prepare index cards on form FD-348 and file as adjunct to.criminal 
informant, [extremist]informa.nt, or security informant index, depe~ding 
on type information furnished. 
b. Duplicate confidential source cards may be maintained with criminal 
informant, racial_ informant, and: security informant index where 
logical. 
4. Files 
When active investigation is initiated relative to prospective confidential 
source, open 134 file (or 137 for criminal sources) and maintain as 
pending until efforts to develop individual arc discontinued. 
5. Uti li zati on 
a. If confidential source is to be used in security investigations, 
secure Bureau a.pproval, and furnish background data of same type 
required for potential security informants. 
b. Except in espionage and foreign nc/,tionali ty matters in which f:7:'equency 
of contact is do pendent upon circumstances, contact· confidential sources 
on whom pending files are maintained at least once every two weeks. 
Such contacts may be posted. 
c. Contacts should only be made by Agent or Agents specificall_y designated -
for that purpose. . 
d. Letter to Bureau requesting authority tQ use subject as confidential 
source is to set out clearly: 
(1) Background information, including date and place of birth, citizen­
ship status, rezidence, employment,, credit and arrest record, 
and service record~ if any 
(2) Details of expected cooperation of.individual and results of any 
interviews conducted ~ith him 
(3) Statement, to effect s·:.,.bject is being considered con:fiden·tial source 
and will be advised he is not Bureau employee and of confidential 
nature of his re lati•:rnship with Bureau. In addition, statement 
should be made tbat you will be alert to be certain subject is 
not a plant, and if he is connec.ted \·Tith labor union he will be· 
advised of Bureau policy on labor matters. 
(4) One copy of letter requesting authority should consist only of 
first page. If request is approved at Bureau, stamped notation 
to this effect will be placed on single-page copy and it ~ill be 
returned to field~ 
6. Security confidential sources •• certification of stability and payments 
a. Eve:-y six months snbmi t FD-401 to Bureau requesting continuation of 
payments. See subsection L, item 3b, above. • 
b. If so,lrce is not bei:1g paid on Bureau auth9rization or if-he is not 
employee of foreign diplomatic establishment or an international or­
ganization ~ni is being used regularly, Agent handling must[certify 
stability and reliability by executing statement on this point 
contained o~ FD-209 used to record contact. Certification must be· 
made at intervals of no longer than six months.] . 
c. If source is employed by foreign diplomatic establishments (embassy, 
consulate, Uni tee. Nations riissi on, etc.) or by ir.ternati onal organiza­
tion (United Nations Secreta~iat, Organization of American States, 
Interne.tional :Monetary Fund, etc.), submit FD-401 to Bureau every 
six months. 
7. Gifts 
Gifts should not be given to sources. 
?• Disc0ntinuance 
Ad...-ise Bm.•eau of date when source .is discontinued and reasons. 
S . P .A.NE L S OURC .23 
l. Dcfini tion 
See page 3 of thio section. 
2. Background in-,restigation anil. approval 
a. Check prospecti 1:e panel source through offi·ce indices, canvass 
logical informants, review appropriate c.redi t, a:rrest, and_ mili taz-y 
re cor-ds. 
22 
9-13-71 
C 
(_ 
