• 
• 
i 
! [ 
t [ 
f 
I 
! 
t 
SECTION 107. [IN~AL]SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CO,IDENTIAL SOURCES; 
[AND FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ASSETS] 
11SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
b. Clearance requirements for information to be passed under FBIHQ 
authority 
Submit original and 9 copies of LHM to FBIHQ bearing appropriate 
classification via cover communication with appropriate caption. 
Leave LHM uncaptioned; FBIHQ will insert code name caption. 
107W 
The first paragraph of the LHM should read: "It is requested that 
clearance be granted for passage in this operation of the following 
items to a representative of (name of foreign intelligence service)o 11 
If the information to be passed is a document, set forth an adequate 
description of it in the LHM. 
Examples: 
(1) Article entitled "Moon Rockets," prepared by physicist 
John Doe, January, 1972, issue of n ______ ," publication 
of American Rocket Society. 
(2) Air Force Training Manual captioned n ," dated July, 1972, 
classified "Secret.n -----
In addition, also submit to FBIHQ, if possible, a true copy of document 
for review which will be returned after clearance by FBIHQ is obtained. 
If the information to be passed is a written report prepared by OA, 
set forth report verbatim in the LHM. 
If the information to be passed is oral, set forth oral information 
verbatim in the LHM. 
If more than one item of information in any form is to be passed, 
number each item in the LHM. 
The last paragraph of the LHM should contain the sentence: "The above 
data should not be further disseminated." 
Upon receipt of LHM, FBIHQ will submit to appropriate authorities and 
request clearance. Reply will be promptly furnished to field. 
c. Notification to FBIHQ of passage of document, written report, or 
oral information which required clearance 
After passage, submit original and 9 copies of uncaptioned LHM 
bearing appropriate classification via cover communication with 
appropriate caption. FBIHQ will insert code name caption. In 
LHM refer to LHM which requested clearance. LHM should merely 
state, 110n (date) our source transmitted the information detailed 
in referenced memorandum to (name of foreign intelligence service)." 
If referenced memorandum detailed more than one item, do not list 
the items unless one or more was not passed. In such an instance 
list only those items that were passed. 
The last paragraph of the LHM should contain the following sentence, 
"The above data should not be further disseminated." 
"SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION" 
33 
10-15-74 
i NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1178 
