DE1DNSTRATION PROTESTING 
UNITED. STATES POLICY. IN 
VIETNAM, . WtSHINGTON, D. C. 
JANUARY 15, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL 
She stated that the men had gotten_ us into this war and 
had made·a· complete mess of it. She stated that there is 
a need to end the war s.o that we may tend to the needs of 
people in urban ghetto areas. Injustice in our society 
must be taken care of and she described the present 
challenges as "militarism, racism and wantonism." She 
stated there can be no justice at home until there· is 
no war in the world. She concluded by reading a poem·~ 
entitled "Life Ain't Been No Crystal Stair." 
Jeannette Rankin was the next speaker :and .she 
welcomed everyone expressing great joy that so many women 
had gatherea together for peace. She stated that our 
.fore~a thers wrote the constitution in such a way so that 
·the military could not take over control of this Govern­
·men t. She was apparently implying that the military system 
is running the United States. She stated that the women 
must see that the military system is destroyed. She 
demanded that women have a secret ballot in the election, 
as well as a choice in selecting candidates. She concluded 
by recommending that women everywhere become candidates 
for political offices. ' • 
~ 
The next speaker was Katherin~Jci'mp from_PennsylY.~P.ia. 
described as the President of the \'foments International 
League for .. :PE;!f-\,CEL~n.<J .F:riedom:--· Airs. Camp described· the" 
activities of the fifteen women delegation that went to 
Congress on this date. She stated that they presented a 
petition to Speaker of the House McCormick and that he had 
assured them.that it would be acted on as· any other petition 
presented to Congress_. Camp stated that tlie Speaker left 
then as he was called by a bell to the floor of the • 
Congress. Camp✓tated that following this·, Mrs\". Rankin, 
her sist~r Rdn~:McKinon, and niece Mrs. DorothyX131'~wn., 
visited Senator Mike Mansfield and presep.ted him with· a 
petition. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
- 7 -
NW 88321 Docld:.12:989544 Page 310 
' \ 
\ 
I 
-; 
I I 
