QKFEARFUL 
WSFLUFFER 
DTPILLAR 
DTLAMPREY 
QKOPERA/DTGODOWN 
\' 
This foundation type proprietary provided support 
to a bona fide international organizatitin interested 
in international legal matters. At the ~ime the 
Agency withdrew its support for the activity in 
1969 the assets of the proprietary plus termination 
funding were turned over_ to the witting Board of 
Directors. The organization, now under a new 
name, continues to exist without Agency support. 
- This foundation type proprietary provided funds 
to a bona .fide foundation involved with the 
development of international cooperatives. At 
. the time the Agency withdrew its support from the 
cooperative program, the entity was disso~ved, 
however, it ,had been anticipated that the entity 
would be the recipient of funds resulting from 
the sale of a proprietary lending institution 
in Europe. The bona fide foundation· which was 
part of the funding channel for the European 
.bank was allowed to retain the proceeds of the 
sale when WSFLUFFER was dissolved. See the 
write-up under DEINHAUL for more details of the 
sale of the European bank.. • 
This foundation type proprietary supported indivi­
duals and. organizations of interest to the Agency 
in the Far East. At the time the Agency withdrew 
its support for the activity in 1967, the assets 
of the organization with a substantial termination 
payment were turned over to the•witting Board 
of Directors of the entity.· The entity has 
continued its work without Agency support. 
This foundation type proprietary supported an 
international organization concerned with indivi­
duals in the teaching profession .. At the time 
the Agency withdrew its support from the inter­
national organization, the proprietary was . • 
dissolved after making one last termination grant 
to the international organization. The inter­
national entity has continued without Agency 
support. 
This foundation type proprietary supported 
individuals and international organizations 
involved with cultural matters. To give the 
entity substance and provide funds for day-to-day 
administration, the Agency started the organization 
with a substantial grant which was in·vested in 
6 
nr,: r. f t"=T ~,.,,u,. 
-
..;....;.._ 
' 
