SECRET Betsy palmer 
Review of Manuel Ray files 
Volume ii' of xviii 
Page 2 
6. Field Information Report 
SUbject: Background, Character and Economic Concepts of }(anuel Ray Rivero 
Date: 16 March 1961 
Sources: Dr. Oscar SALAS Marrero (paragraphs 1-11.2, Knew Ray in CUba 
Dr. Jose ALVAREZ Diaz, former Minister of Finance under Frio (Pg 12) 
Dr. Jorge BERUFF, former president of Banco de Desarrollo 
Economico de CUba, (pg 13) 
Note: Cover note penciJ.Je d coillI!lent (The content is so biased and mixed 
With untruth that it would be a disservice to the intelligence community 
to disseminate it. 
Synopsis of paragraphs 1-11. Dr. Sa.las says during his childhood Ray we.s 
a Protestant but today is completely atheistic. Said Ray organized the MRC 
against Batista and shortly after Batista's fall, MRC and 26th of July 
Movement fused into one, ans as soon as Castro came into power, control 
of the organization was given to the Communists. Tells of Ray's association 
With Castro and that he did not resign his position when his own brother 
was renounced by Castro. Stated that Ray's rupture with Fidel was due 
to the fact ab.at Ray opposed the idea of shooting Hubert Matos as a 
traitor. Ray resigned his post but said publicly that he approved and 
supported the Castro regime without any mental reservations. Says in 
CUban cla.nd.estine circles Ray is regarded as boastful, ostentatious and;. 
deceitful. Intimate friends of Ray feel that he is a man of anti-democratic 
procedures, and does not like to take advice, even from members of his own 
movement. 
Synqpsis of para.graph 12. Dr. Alvarez said Ray was in favor of maintaining 
relations With USSR and not ma.king Communist Party illegal. Said that 
although Ray Withdrew all these statements when threatened with press 
coverage, Alvarez· thinks they are representative of Ray's thinking and 
would try to put ideas into practive if he ever ca.me to power. AlYerez 
al.so mentioned Rays thinking on-nationalization of public services, 
socialized medicine, nationalization of banks, etc. 
Synopsis of paragraph 13. Dr. Beruff said Ray well-intentioned With no 
Comm:nn:f st tetldencies. Cited a meeting at which the basic points of the 
MRP platform were discussed and said that since Ray was in disagreement With 
the others on most of the points, Dr. Felipe Pazos acted as chairman of the 
meeting and Ray argued his case as a simple member of·the group. Out of this 
meeting came a declaration of 14 points, including the nationalization of 
the banks and public utilities. 
On 9 March, Ray said that ideas attributed to him. in paragraph 12 were not 
true and part of a "campaign against him by Mr. Pawley of the Miami City 
Tra.nsi t Company" . 
SECRFT 
