, l 
! 
I i 
l 
I 
11 
I 
; 
! 
' ' 
... 
SECRET 
May 1, 1978 
Volume xry - May 1964 
1. Al•frl0RLD Meeting in San Juan, P.R., 2-5 May 1964 
Subject: Ray's Plans 
Submitted by)tenry D. Ffecl~sher,: WH/SA/SO/HH 
Betsy Palmer 
Ray's plans to infiltrate Cuba by 20 May were discussed at meeting. Questions 
about Ray's financing of Puerto Rican conference and ability to store anns 
and engage in training activities on U.S. soil were raised by AMYUM/I9(MRR) 
Member), He volunteered to tell.HecKsher where anns could be found be 
Hecksher- l'quicltly dissuaded him from divulging further details" at which 
point ,1\M1UM 19 commented that GUERTLJ!.""'R had reacted in a similar way when 
offered facts and figures about Ray's activities. Artime stated he would 
not put it past Ray to go into hiding in a secure place while pretending 
to be in Cuba. 
2. Cable to J1,frlAVE from DIR, 7 May 1964 - After looking at AMTAUP material, 
it is obvious much of conspiratorial talk in JURE is for internal conslll!rption 
only, the purpose being to protect myth that JtrrtE is independent as basically 
hostile to CIA. In a desire to obtain proof of any anti-CIA or U.S. govt. 
activity by Ray, urge ever-J effort to check accuracy of .OOAUP/P.MOT reporting 
and follow through for any overt manifestations of many allegations made. 
3. Memo for the Director of Central Intelligence, from Richard Helsm, 
DD/P, dated 13 May 1964. Subject: Plans of Manuel Ray and the JURE to 
Infiltrate into Cuba. 
Helms says there is no question but that Ray seriously plans to enter Cuba 
sometime in May 1964. JURE has 6 teams ready to infiltrate -- a total of 
27 men. Ray hopes with aid of 40 men, he can demonstrate that resistance 
is possible and that Castro can be defied. 
4, Cable to DIR from JMNAVE, , dtd 20 May 1964, Andrew St, George, on 
assignment with Time-Life, left Miami 18 May with JURE elements for 
rendezvous with Ray, 
5, Memo for the Record dtd 20 -~y 1964, from Samuel Halpern 
subject: JURE Purchase of Arms 
Chronological resume of reports reaching WH/SA desk regarding attempted 
pill-chase of azms by JURE in El Monte, California. 
A, Revenue officials queried CIA re its knowledge of certain 
arms being hand.led by Juan Erquiaga Aizcorbe in L.A. area 
for shipment to Florida. :-JJ/SA denied knowledge. Discussion about 20 May 1964, 
SECRET 
