• 
t.n -
• ?.\. 
Knot;her'was·a conscientious objector to military service. A third 
had contributed $5.000 to the National Committee to Abolish the 
House Committee on Un-American Activities. A sp~aker representing 
the· W.E.B. DuBois Club was identified as a Communist. The~FBI 
covered the meeting with an informant who .reported practically 
verbatim the remarks of all the speakers, including the following: 
-The.Chairman of the Philadelphia Ethical Society 
A representative of the American Civil Liberties Union 
A representative of the United Electrical Workers 
A spokesman for the Young Americans for Freedom 
A member of the staff of the "Catholic Worker" 
A minister of the Africa·n Methodist Episcopal .Church 
A minister of the Episcopal Church 
A representative of the Philadelphia Area Committee to 
End the War in Vietnam 
A Professor of Industrial Economics.at Columbia University 
A'representative of the Inte!-University Committee for 
Debate on Foreign Policy 
A member of Women's Strike for Peace who had traveled to 
North Vietnam 
A member of Women's International League for Peace and 
Freedom who had visited South Vietnam 
A chaplin from Rutgers University 
A professor of political science from Villanova University 
Another member of Young Ame-:i::icans.: for Freedom . 
The former Charge d'Affaires in the South Vietnamese Embassy 
This informant's report was so extensive as to be the equivalent of 
a tape rt:!cording, although the FBT report does not indicate that the 
informant was "wired. 
1
~ Another informant reported the remarks of 
additional participants. 
An official of the Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy 
A minister of the church of the Brethren 
A Unitarian .minister 
A representative of United World Federalists 
A member of Students for a Democrat.ic Society 
A member of the Socialist Workers Party 
A spokesman for the W.E.B. DuBois Clubs 
The report was prep_ared as a Letterhead Memorandum with fourteen 
copies for possible dissemination by the FBI to other Executive 
Branch agencies. Copies were disseminated .to military intelligence 
W 38326 Docld:329896-03 209 
I 
I. 
i 
I 
j 
l I: 
