'SECR 
MC 100-7430 
CUban Exile Activities 
On January 28, 1960, FSI MIGUEL ANDRES DE LEON ROJAS 
reported that responsible CUban e:x.;!.le groups in Mex City and 
the United States.,who have sup Dr. O RTUONDO, 
are convinced that General JOS ER.I A, who 
commanqs a group of CU ban military exiles in th _ _ ___ _. a~ 
..R,epubJ,.~1-,c...c,_:, would _n~t be a wise selection as the military leader 
of'--'the· att t to overthrow the CASTRO government. The PSI 
further ad sed at these CUban exile groups believe that 
PEDRO LUI IA z, former Chief of,the ~-F.orce, 
1 
,.,. would be a 'much" better military leader·. (A- • - •• - -
1~ • The PSI also advised that information received from 
sources within CUba reflected that FIDEL CASTRO had prepared a 
decree ordering the United states to vacate the Guantanamo 
Naval Base. According to this information, the decree was 
originally prepared in late N ember, 1959, but ·had nqt yet 
been signed for issuance. ) ~ 
The PSI further reported d eard reports in 
Miami, Florida, of an invasion a allegedly would 
be made by supporters of ROLANDO FER.lmt,1 CUban exile who 
sides 1 . Th stated that MASFERRER, ;RO_BERTO 
~ NO OTHMAN, and their associlates • form a 
ich is not reg in a favorable light by responsible 
CUban exiles or by responsible elements within CUba. The PSI 
stated that from the information available to him in Miami he 
doubted very much that MASFERRER would be able to make an 
attempt at invading CUba or, if an attempt were made, that it 
would be successful.~ 
N,icaragµa 
PSI DE LEON also advised on January 28 that he had 
eceived information from within CUba that ERNESTO "CHE" . 
RA has not abandoned his proJect to utlrize pro-Communist 
c'a:raguan exiles and -cuban "volunteers" in an attempt to 
invade Nicaraguao This source advised that approximately 400 
guerrillas have been trained to make up the invasion force. 
The PSI stated he had received no information as to the timing 
of such an attempt, but expressed doubt that it would occur in 
the immediate future in view of the concern of the CUban Govern­
ment over a possible early invasion attempt by Cuban exiles. («) 
NW -~0953 Docld: 32301923 Page 3 
-5-
• ~ t'Cir"' r"-"::\ ('..))~- r( rr,: . : • 
