13-00000 
PAGE 29 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
records are. The bulk of our work has been with federal agencies that hold 
assassination records. But we've also, at the direction of Congress in the bill 
that was passed, entertained a search for records wherever they might be. 
Records that are in private hands are not records that we can subpoena and take 
from people, so we have to find where they are. 
Staff members go out, talk to people, encourage them to donate those records to 
the American public, to the National Archives. That was done in this case. We 
received a tip that an individual had records that were left over from Mr. Shaw, 
and staff went and talked to the person, spent time with the person, encouraged 
them to share those records with the American public, and that's how it was 
developed. 
REP. BARRETT: How do you determine which assassination records you can disclose 
now and which just have to wait? 
MR. TUNHEIM: Well, there's a standard that's set up by the act. There's first of 
all a presumption that all records should be public. That presumption has 
governed what the board has done throughout the process. But then there's a 
standard where the board has to weigh the public interest in a particular record 
or information with the potential harm that might be caused by release of the 
material. 
The standards that we look at are, are there national security interests such as 
disclosure of an intelligence agent whose name hasn't been disclosed and whether 
that person perhaps may be in some danger if that name was released publicly. 
Does it disclose a method of protecting the president that is not generally 
known today, so therefore it might be a threat to the president. Are there 
personal privacy considerations that are involved. 
I will tell you that when all is said and done, a very, very tiny percentage of 
information gets redacted under the standards that we are applying, and the 
process of going through the records has led the board to arrive at a number of 
policy decisions which the agencies by and large are now following in their own 
review of records, and therefore decisions that we had to make two years ago now 
we don't have to make because the agency is following the advice of the board 
made on earlier records. 
REP. BARRETT: As long as there are some records that are not being released, do 
you think that we will inevitably face criticism from some people in the 
American public that there is still some sort of cover-up? I make reference to 
Mr. Holland's comments about a book being written 75 years after President 
Lincoln's assassination. 
Will the time ever come, do you think, when all records will be released? 
