13-00000 
04/23/97 WED 15:54 FAX 202 724 0457 --· -------- -- --
-3-
CIA Sources 
The Review Board established guidelines, during Its December 1996 meeting. tor 
handling CIA source issues and applied those guidelines at the January ·1_997 meeting. • 
• These guidelines directed the protection of names and Identifying ·1nfonnation· of CIA:..::.: 
sources in. cases where the identity of the source is of' low public Interest or ls peripheral .· 
to the JFK assassination~ • The Board's decision was based on two factors: • the ·concern 
that since CIA sources generally. live outside the United-States, they could risk tia1m if 
their identities were revealed. Moreover, many of the sources reference.~ In CIA 
records appear Infrequently and are of relatively low public interest. Therefora~Jn 
records where the identity of the source Is of Importance lor und~_rstanding1t1Ef
0 
j . , 
assassination, the.CIA will be required to provide additional evidence to supportthEf 
protection of the source's ldentity.s In cases where the identify of the source is 
peripheral to the assassination story, the information will be postponed until 2017. 
FBI National Security Assets 
FBI national security assets should be treated in the sa~ manner as PIA sources. 
FBI Informants 
Informant issues represent the largest category of postponements In the FBl's 
Segregated Collection, as they do In the "~re" FBI assassination files. They also 
provide the greatest opportunity for streamlining the.review process. Currently, there 
are ten members of the Bureau's· JFK Task Force who are responsible for researching 
individual informants in response to evidence requests from the Review Board.' They 
retrieve and review the lnfonnants'. files and attempt, through DMV, Sooial Security, and 
other database searches, -to determine If the infom,ant is alive. Under current Review 
Board standards for ,.core• files, this work is necessary to provide evidence to support 
redacting the Informant's name, regardless of wh~ther the informant provided 
information. Removing the requirement of proving whether Informants are alive In the 
Segregated Collections would free up significant resources that could be deployed to 
reviewing unprocessed HSCA subject files. 
The new approach to HSCA subjects is to protect inforrnant•i~entifying information, 
3An example would be the case of John Scelso (pseud.). The Board found that 
his identity is relevant to the assassination story and CIA offered evidence -of a 
continuing need to protect the identity. In this case, "Sce.lso" documents would 
continue to be scheduled for release in five years. 
4Six work full-time on informant evidence, four devote about half their time to 
infoimant evidence. 
laloo4 
