52333 
\ 
0 0 
,sEt'pf1; V.\b&f 
CIA did not service the drop because our informant 
did not exhibit ari agreed-to signal. He apparently 
did not use the signal in order to fully protect 
himself. On the other hand, CIA was unable to 
service the drop until August because State Depart­
ment adamantly refused to give CIA clearance to 
conduct any activity in Moscow ... This position was 
taken by State beca.use it felt that any operational 
activity might jeopardize the test ba.n talks. CS) 
ANATOL! GOLITZYN AKA ANATOL! KLIMOV 
This is the Soviet KGB defector who came to 
the v. s.·under CIA control, feuded with the agency, 
' /left for England under British Intelligence :control 
and very recently returned to the U.S. Since his 
return, he has met with the Attorney General and 
with McCone. He has been extremely critical of 
the U.S. position toward Russia. Although a prima 
donna, Golitzyn has been the source of extremely 
valuable information for all U.S. agencies including 
the Bureau. Since his return, he has indicated to 
· the Attorney General and CIA that he will contact 
\
a.ppropriate agencies when he sees fit. In the past, 
Golitzyn has asked to meet with the Director. The 
Director has made it very clear that he will not 
see Golitzyn. .• 
MICHAL GOLENIEWSKI 
The subject is a former high-ranking official 
of the Polish Security Service who defected in 
January, 1961, and in recent weeks has been an 
embarrassing problem for CIA because of his many 
complaints. He has communicated with the President, 
the Attorney General and has been in contact with 
a Congressman. He. is slated to testify before the 
Sena.te Internal Security Sub-Committee in the near 
future. He has accused CIA of dishonesty and over-all 
failure to comply with his needs. We have had a.ccess 
to Goleniewski who has been a valuable source of 
information. However, we have been most c1reful not 
to become involved in the feud between him and CIA. 
We have cooperated to the extent of furnishing CIA 
any information received from Goleniewski which 
might be of assistance to the agency. 
- 8 -
Docld:32313069 Page 8 
., 
I 
i 
