SECRET 
to fight a pitched battle with regular militaty f6r­
mations which might have required more advanced weap­
ons than small arms, grenades, mines, and machineguns. 
In many ways, Cuba under Castro is the Latin version 
of the old Comintern 9 inciting, abetting, and sustain­
ing revolution wherever it flourishes. 
We have occasional evidence of more concrete Cu­
ban support. Cuban nationals, for example, took part 
in the La Oroya disorders in Peru in December. We 
know that some funds move, generally in cash by courier, 
from Cuba to the revolutionaries in other countries. We 
know that Cuba furnishes money to buy weapons, and that 
some guerrilla forces in Peru, for instance, are equipped 
with Czech weapons which most probably came from Cuba. 
Venezuela is apparently number one on Cuba vs pri­
ority list for revolution. Fidel Castro said so to the 
recent meeting of Communist front organizations for 
Latin American women. Che Guevara and Blas Roca both 
emphasized the outlook for revolution in Venezuela in 
speeches in January. One of our established sources 
of proven reliability, high in the ranks of the Vene­
zuelan Communist Party says the Central Committee 
agreed in January that a "peaceful solution to the pres­
ent situation in Venezuela is out of the question." 
This same source reported that Communist guerrilla 
and terrorist operations in Venezuela were placed un­
der a unified command in late 1962, which coordinates 
activities with the other militant extremist groups in 
Venezuela. The result has been the creation of the 
Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN). This or­
ganization is currently trying to publicize its exist­
ence by such acts as the hijacking of the freighter 
ANZOATEGUI, and by acts of sabotage and indi,scrimina te 
shootings. These were also designed to dissuade Pres­
ident Betancourt from his trip to Washington. In this/) 
of course, they failed. • 
The violence in Venezuela should not be minimized. 
The sabotage is the work of experts, and is being done 
with advanced types of explosives. The shooting -has 
reached the point in Caracas where it is not safe to go 
out at night in some sections of the capital. But it 
is the opinion both of our people and the embassy that 
-2-
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 8 
