( 
SECTION 107. 'CURITY INFORMANTS AND CON.FIDJ , IAL SOURCES 
• 
d. All such material should be transmitted :i.n the same manner as 
statements furnished by informant, 
107G -. H 
e. Receipt of such material should be recorded on form FD-306 or on a 
channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items set forth 
on form Ii'D-306 ~ See section 107M for filing instructions . 
. R. P.ASSDTG INFORMJ_TION IN DOUBLE AGENT OPERATIONS 
1. Carefully handle and create basi• for acquisition 
a.. In double a.gent operations information requested by th-e princi1ials 
is frequently passed either to build up a double agent's stature 
or as evidence of espionage activity. 
b. Each case must be carefully evaluated to make certain that a net 
gain accrues to the u. s. 
c. The information which is passed should be carefully handled and 
appropriate expl~nations created for its acquisition by the double 
agent to avoid his compromise. 
2. Locating information to pass 
Wherever poss:i.ble the field office handling the double agent should 
locate appropriate information to be passed; however, the Bureau can 
assist in fulfilling requests for information in possession of 
Government agencies. 
3. Obtaining Bureau authority 
Bureau a1.d;hority must be obtained to pass any information in a double 
agent operation except: 
a. Newspaper articles 
b. Magazine artfcles 
o. Pamphlets, brochures, etc., prepared by a private company or corporation 
for distribution or sale to the public. (This does not include highly 
technical pamphle·bs, even if unclassified, which are prepared for 
limited use by engineering staffs and not intended for release to the 
public.) 
4. Retention of copies of passed material 
a. True copies should be re·l;ained by the office of origin of any documents 
or material related to the national defense which is passed in double 
agent operations. 
b. Su.ch material should be appropriately identified by ·!;he double agent. 
o. Bureau .Agents should not place identifying data on such material but 
should preserve any notes made by them in connection with the passage 
of such material. • 
d, Similar ar.:tion should be taken with regard to any material which is 
passed which is considered evidentiary although not-clearly related 
to the national defense. • 
e. It is not necessary to retain copies of bu-ildup material ·obviously 
not evidentiary in nature where there is assurance that copies can 
be obtained at a later date from the Government agency or private 
concern having custody. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1343 
13 
7--14-64 
i 
I 
I 
' _j 
l 
[ 
i 
• I 
I 
I 
