·SECRET Betsy palmer 
Review _of _Files_ - Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I _-,_J(V:n::r 
Volume XVII - September 1964 - February 3.:96~ 
May 2, 197B'·----
1. Memo dtd 1 Sept 1964, Subject: [ /J,l'rAUP-2]Production 
"Chief of Reports CoI!I!aents: It would appear that .AMTAU?.:.21 s reporting on 
JUP.E natters have been generally reliable." 
2. Autonomous Operations - Operating Plan 
Activity:[ AM.BANG 1 
For the Pericrl: 1 October - 31 December 1964. Total of $75,000 paid 
to effect move of JURE activities from U.S. territory and as a final payment 
to JURE. 
3. Intelligence Inf'ormation Cable, dtd 9 Sept 1964 
Source: Jose Garcia Valdez, aka "Pepe Gatillo 11 
Subject: Plans of JURE leader Manuel Ray Rivero to depart Miami for an 
Undisclosed Location. 
Ray asked Garcia on 9 Sept 64 to ta..~e him, St. George and Mirta Borras on 
trip to unspecified destination. To depart on JURE catamaran. 
4. Memo for the Record, dtd 11 Sept 1964 from Alfonso Rodreguez 
On Aug 24, 1964, Rogelio Cisneros called to report his resignation from JURE. 
Stated Ray incapable of directing both political and military activities. 
Cisneros thinks Raul Chibas will soon also resign. Cisneros said Ray not 
prepared for ill-fated May attempt into Cuba and Cisneros thinks Ray had 
belie;_,.~he could arrange for CIA to take hi:r:1 into Cuba. "Ray is politically 
1.1/Vll,n.formed --- politically that which he last read.". Cisneros further stated 
that he believed. Ray had planned his entire return-to-Cuba angle with President 
Ken..."ledy and the presidential elections of November 1964 in nind.. According to 
him, Ray planned to make JTJRE and Ray outstanding liberal and democractic 
exile group with the thought that prior to the 1964 elections, Mr. Kennedy 
would have to do something about Cuba. Hith Kennedy's death, according to 
Cisneros, all of Ray's plans went awry. Rodriguez expresses to Cisneros 
that this seems like a far-fetched possibility and Cisneros admits he got 
idea out of thin air, but said theory widely held ·,,,j_ thin Directorate of JTJRE. 
5. Bemo for the Record - draft - dtd 22Sept 1964 - Alfonso Rodriguez 
Conclusions "I recommend we give Ray what he asks and close the JURE books 
·ror--good. If Ray is succesful in Cuba he ,.;ill not need our help, if he is 
not, our help won't do much good. 
"He is h5:mest and at least the r;;.oney will largely be spent for the 
purpose he wants to achief . • 
'',!hat.ever Ray r;,.ay ever say, he was treated the way be asked to be 
treated. He :have -played the gar.e in a ni.anner beyond reproach." 
SECRET 
