13-00000 
appropriate solution. 15 
2. A _National Declassific~tion Center 
The proposed National Declassification Center is a response to the fragmented 
quality of declassification policy, and to the inadequacy of executive branch oversight, 
which the Secrecy Commission described as "the critical missing link. "16 
As currently conceived, however, the Center risks becoming an extraneous 
bureaucracy that agencies are free to utilize or not, as they wish, and that has little or 
no independent authority. In order to fulfill its intended purpose, the Center should be 
assigned specific tasks and authorjties. For example: 
• The Center could ~e assigned to perform independent review and approval of all 
agency declassification guides, so as to ensure their consistency arid 
compliance with the provisions of the Act and the executive order. • 
• The Center could be assigned to perform or to coordinate the declassification of 
all documents involving multiple agency "equities," in order to optimize the 
efficiency 6f the declassification process. 
Perhaps most important, the Center could undertake in an expanded form many 
of the oversfght responsibilities now assigned to the Information Security Oversight 
Office (ISOO) and the lnteragency Security Classification Appeals Panel (ISCAP). 
ISOO, under Steven Garfinkel's leadership, has a profound understanding of the 
intricacies and shortcomings of secrecy policy and, in my opinion, has generally 
demonstrated good judgment about what is appropriate and achievable and what is nqt. 
But ISO O's staffing and resource levels are laughably low when compared to its 
nominal responsibilities. This disparity between resources and responsibilities sends a • 
message throughout the executive branch that "we're not going to take secrecy 
oversight seriously." 
15The characteristic risks and benefits of information disclosure, and the 
mechanics of actually balancing them in practice are elucidated by Arvin S .. Quist in 
Security Classification of Information, Vol. 2: Principles for Classification of Information, 
Martin Marietta Energy Systems, Inc., Oak Ridge, TN, Report No. K/CG-1077N2, April 
1993, Chaps. 5; 6. Of particular interest, Quist discusses how legal standards for 
weighing eyiderice that are already part of the judicial process- such as "beyond a 
reasonable doubt," "clear and convincing evidence," and "preponderance of the 
evidence"- could be used in balancing and in any subsequent review (pp. 61-69). 
16Commis_sion Report, Chapter 2, page 42. 
8 
