13-00000 
04~23t97 WED 15:55 FAX 202 724 0457 - ~-- -- - --· -- • 
-5-
CIA's argumentto protect employee names emphasizes a number of.points. First~ 
since many employees are -Under cover," the maintenance of that cover is critical to . 
gathering intelligence. CIA argues that identification of a_ name can Identify.the c9ver 
provider and Jeopardize operatio~s. Second, although the majority of names are·of .. 
retired CIA employees,. CIA has a confidentiality agreement with them and many do not 
want their past Agency affiliation released, The argument here Is that release may • •V) 
Jeopardize business relationships or personal safety. Such arguments ~ave already 
been presented to the Board~ · Their.merit can only be determined on a case-by-case 
basis. However, due to the volume of names in the JFK Collection, the Individual 
review and evaluation of each case would delay significantly the review of qocuments 
and ultimately lead to less tota1·1nformatlon becoming availabie to the publlC:-<··. 
J 
CIA has proposed, and the Review Board agrees, that CIA employee.names b~ treated 
in a manner similar to that applied to Source names: to postpone untll 2017 those 
employee nam~ that are of low public Interest or are of peripheral interest to the 
assassination. It Will be presumed that employee names will be released if their 
identities are important to the ass~sinati~n story unless the CIA is abl~ to prQvide 
specific Information of a potential harm of release. (CIA ~cknowledges the presumption 
of release unless specific evidence is provided to the Review Board that harm to 
national security or to personal safety would result from the release of the employee 
name.) 
FBI "Foreign Counterintelligence'' Postponements 
It is presumed that the FBI will, at.least partially, cany over its post-appeal standards for 
disclosing "FCI'' activities targeting Communist-bloc nations. T_o tfle extent that the 
HSCA subjects reflect "FC1• activities against other nations '1at have not been 
addressed by the Review Board in the "'core• files, the FBI will be allowed to redact 
direct discussion of such activities, unless the irifonnation in the proposed redaction 
meaningfully contributes to the understanding of the assassination. · • 
FBI and CIA Foreign Liaison Postponement& 
The criteria for these-postponements would not, in the abstract, depart $lgnificantly from 
the Review Board's current approach of releasing.information received through liaison 
channels, .while protecting direct acknoWledgment of the source of the information. In 
practice, however, the sJaff would be more _flexible in protecting text that Implies, 
although may not unambiguously state, that a foreign government Is the source of 
particular information. Nevertheless, the more significant the information is to any 
assassination-related issue, the more information would be released under these 
guidelines. 
~006 
