f 
Mr. Will~am E. Colby 
Page Two 
( 
June 26, 1975 
4. Relationships between other organizations, public and 
private, and the CIA. 
5- The use of CIA personnel, funds, or facilities for pur-
poses unrelated to its intelligence missions. 
Within these broad subjects of investigation, the Committee 
will examine ''questionable activities'' by the CIA. These 
activities are those where there exist, in the words of the 
agreed upon Outline for Inquiry Procedures, "specific alle­
gations of Agency or Executive Branch abuses or other con­
troversial specific matters where there is reason to believe 
improprieties may have occurred". The following categories 
are believed by the Corrnnittee to be among those in which 
questionable activities have taken place: mail openings; 
electronic surveillance; equipment testing within the United 
States; surreptitious entries; penetration of dissident 
groups; use of cover and false documentation; security inves­
tigations, including those initiated as a result of or in 
connection with news leaks; use of polygraphs; political 
misuse of the CIA; assistance provided CIA by other agencies 
or private companies and CIA's assistance to them; CIA 
management of its investments; CIA use of pr6prietari~s, 
notional organizations and devised facilities; CIA experi­
ments with drugs on unwitting U. S. citizens; CIA detention 
of individuals within the United States. 
In regard to each questionable activity chosen for study, 
the Select Com~ittee will examine the nature of the activity 
and will attempt to evaluate the results. The Committee 
will also look at the CIA's authority to undertake the 
activity, the relationship between the activity and the CIA's 
missions, the internal mechanisms for initiation and review, 
and the external mechanisms for control of such activities. 
Though the initial focus will be on the specific question­
able activity, the Select Committee's inquiry is designed 
to reach fundamental issues which bear directly on the ade­
quacy of the administrative organization and procedures of 
the CIA, and the legislation presently controlling the 
Agency. Among the major issues which the Committee will 
address are: • 
Hlf 5095-'i Doclcl: 32112856 Page 3 
-::r ,. 
Cl ,. 
e!. Q. 
,:I 
