6H 
[ 
3. 
4. 
PART II 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
h. If an item to be submitted appears on more than one page of the news,­
paper, the words "Continued on page ... ," the subheadline on the con­
tinued page, and the words "Continued from page ..• " should not be 
mounted. 
i. Mounted. clippings should read from top to bottom, column by column, 
from left to right. 
j. All clippings must be complete. 
k. Only one copy of a clipping need be submitted except that two copies 
of all items pertaining to actual or possible ciYil rights Yiolations 
should be forwarded. 
l. Include clippings with other mail being sent to Bureau on the day 
that the clippings appear in the local paper;, Forward clippings from 
~esident ~gencies the day they arriYe at.headquarters city. 
Resident Agents must be alert for material appearing in the local press. 
Submission of publications of security interest to the Bureau 
a. General principle governing submissions 
The Bureau desires to receive publications of security interest at 
[FBIHQ]for purposes of information, research, and intelligence. Conse­
quently, it is requested tnat evidentiary copies of publications be 
retained in the field and only nonevidentiary copies.be forwarded to 
the Bureau by routing slip. 
b. Y~nner of handling and forwarding nonevidentiary copies of publica­
tions 
(1) Nonevidentiary copies of newspapers, magazines, journals,· 
periodicals, news bulletins, and books, obtained regularly 
(2} 
(by subscription or repeated purchase) and forwarded to the 
Bureau, need not be identified as to source. They should be 
submitted via ordinary mail by routing slip (marked for the 
attention o:f[Section IS-3, Intelligence Division)Junless 
transmittal by cover letter has been specifically requested. 
Routing slips may be used to notify the Bureau of routine adminis­
trative matters, such as temporary suspension of a publication 
(e.g., during summer months, lack of funds), temporary delay in 
obtaining or receiving particular issues of a publication, or 
other information which will keep the Bureau informed relative to 
the status of these publications. To avoid confusion, noneviden­
tiary copies which have been marked for identi:fication (source, 
Agent, date, and place of acquisition)should be further annotated: 
"Not Evidence." 
Letters should be used in connection with initiating action or 
·ceasing action to ob.tain public~tioII;S desired by the Bureau; .to 
call to the attention of the Bureau specific items of information 
·connected with these publications; and in those instances in 
which good judgm~nt dictates that certain circumstances or 
information should be recorded in letter form. 
Each SAC and each legal attache must keep the Bureau, attention 
[Section IS-3, Intelligence Division,]informed on a current basis 
regarding publications (including books) of potential interest 
that are not included in the current list of publications which 
is supplied periodically to the field and to the legal attaches. 
These publications would include those published by subjects 
of security or counterintelligence investigations and publica­
tions which may otherwise have a security or counterintelligence 
significance. . 
Each SAC and each legal attache should insure that the handling 
of publications for which his office is responsible is being 
given adequate supervision at all times. Subscriptions to these 
publications should be followed closely to insure that the • 
publications are received at the Bureau on a current basis. The 
Bureau should be advised of the expiration date of the subscrip­
tion to each publication in pufficient time to enable the 
Bureau to determine the necessity for renewal. 
5a 
3-27-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 213 
( 
I 
\ 
