13-00000 
PAGE 8 
20/20 (ABC), August 27, 1993 
HAN: C?l The President of the United States, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, is dead. 
Let us pray. 
SHERR: The official version of what happened is that from that sixth-floor 
corner window, acting alone, Lee Harvey Oswald ·fired three shots, the third of 
which ended the life of America's 35th president. But that's too simple an 
explanation for a great many Americans, and for conspiracy theorists, far too 
convenient that one man alone did it. Doubters insist that the shot or shots 
that killed the President came from behind that fence on the grassy knoll, or 
from a railroad overpass just beyond. 
HARK LANE, Author/Attorney: Shots came from at least two directions. A bullet 
·hit the President in the back. A bullet hit him in the throat. It came from the 
front. A bullet hit him in the head. It came from the front. That was three 
shots. At least one bullet hit Governor Connolly Csp?l, One bullet missed, 
struck the curb. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl Attorney/author Mark Lane, one of the most persistent and 
prolific of conspiracy theorists, has long insisted that the Warren Commission 
was wrong, and covered up critical evidence that might make it possible to 
identify the President's assassins. 
Hr. ~ANE: Today, with hundreds of thousands of documents in the vaults of the 
CIA, the DI C?l, and the FBI and the National Archives - which we can't see -
the cover-up is continuing. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl But another lawyer-turned-author, Gerald Posner, says 
evidence available to researchers and conspiracy buffs for years led him 
directly to the only person who could possibly have shot the President. 
GERALD POSNER, Author, •case Closed': Lee Harvey Oswald killed Jack Kennedy, 
acting alone. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl Posner, author of Case Closed, the culmination of a 
three-year, exhaustive reexamination of the Kennedy assassination, concedes that 
in identifying a familiar culprit, he• s not likely to win over many conspiracy 
bu,ffs. But he says the evidence d idn • t allow for any other suspects. 
Hr. POSNER: Nost people who have written conspiracy books started with their 
conclusion already done. They knew it was a conspiracy in their heart, and they 
went around to prove that case. 
SHERR: Cvoice-overl One of the major assassination controversies Posner seeks to 
resolve is the number of sho~s fired, where they came from, and which ones 
struck the President. Using recently-developed computer enhancements of the home 
movie taken·by Abraham Zapruder, Posner explained for 20/20 how he says he was 
able to count the shots, for which he says Oswald had more time than the Warren 
Commission believed. 
Hr. POSNER: Oswald's first shot, which missed, was fjred much earlier than 
anyone realized - just after the car turned the corner. Evidence of this is 
overlooked by most experts. It's in the film. In the upper righthand corner of 
your screen, you'll see a little girl. She's heard that shot and turned. In the car, the President and Mrs. Kennedy and the Governor also heard the shot and 
;ervices of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
