• • 
(2) Sometime during the interview, Mr. Gitenstein 
raised a question about "Expedite Processing" of mail and how it was 
handled in Mr. Hoover's office. Miss Gandy pointed out that the 
handling of personal and confidential mail forM·r-. Hoover was 
~andled by _Miss _Mooney and she, Miss ~J-andy, was ng!JtaYi\IeaR~ confidential 
Just how this mail was handled. I explained that alljm.ai'.f receivect 
in the Routing Unit of the Records and Communications Division 
was taken unopened to Miss Mooney in Mr. Hoover's office where 
she opened this mail and the clerical employee who brought the mail 
down then logged it in and stamped the mail "Expedite Processing" 
on the left-hand edge. Thereafter the clerica employee·would take 
the log ba~k to the Routing Unit and when the mail was subsequently 
returned to the Routing Unit for regular filing purposes tI?-e item 
would be crossed off the log. Mr. Gitenstein wanted to know 
if the "Expedite Processing" logs were maintained permanently and 
he was informed that to my knowledge they were not kept after accounting 
for the particular items of mail contained on the particular log. 
(3) Mr. Epstein q1estioned Miss Gandy at length 
concerning her title as "E:x;ecutive Assistant. " He wanted to know when 
she acquired this title and she said she .could not recall. He wanted 
to know whether anyone else at the FBI had occupied this position and 
Miss Gandy explained that she was the only employee with the 
title of Executive Assistant who had served under Mr. Hoover during 
his tenure in office. Mr. Epstein seemed to pay a great deal of 
attention to the title Executive Assistant and :t endeavored to explain 
to him that the title was a Civil Service Commission title and that 
Miss Gandy's position.was set up under the Classification Act administered 
by the Oivil Service Commission. Although I am not· sure what was 
behind Mr. Epstein's lengthy questioning aboutJ this matter, I got the 
impression he might be trying to find out if Miss Gandy acted for Mr. Hoover 
on her own initiative. This is just a guess on my part and I am not sure 
what was behind his questioning. 
(4) During Miss Gandy's description of the various 
offices, she did m~ntion specifically the fact that the interesting case 
files were maintained on the shelves in the big conference room in black 
v folders. They asked what the interesting case files consisted of and I 
explained this to their satisfaction; namely, that they were writeups of 
closed cases which might be of irl erest for various purposes. 
- 2 -
NW 3832:ti Docld:32989£11 Page 121 
