[ 
[ 
6G 
2. 
PART II 
.S~CTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Identification orders, wanted flyers, check circula·rs, and appreherisi·on 
orders 
Each field office must maintain a mailing list composed of .indiv'iduals 
and organizations to which identification orders, _wanted flyers, check 
circulars, and apprehension orders are to be sent. Each fie];d -office must 
review annually its mailing list in order to see that no da:ta is ~ent to 
firms whioh ha.-v-e cea.seci business. or have merged with other ·organizations . 
.A survey should be conducted by Agents each year by every office,. a-t the 
time the field office mailing list is purged, to determine wh_ether addi­
tional na.mas of individuals and businesses should be added to the field 
office-mailing list. 
a. ·Addressograph plates are to be prepared a~ the ~ureau upon receipt of 
fi-eld request. (The Bureau will prepare_, on it.§! own initiative,· 
Addressograph plates for new FBINA graduates.) Title of position is 
used rather than name of incumbent. 
b. Decide what organizai;ions, in.di viduals, or concerns are to appear on 
the li,st. 
(1) The quality of the assistanpe the addressee is in a position to 
give 
(2
3
) The cooperation which has been afforded 
( ) The following must ·appear on the list: 
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Division. Missi~ns Providing Lodging 
Bureau.of Customs Post Office Inspectors 
Cooperative Credit Bureaus Postmasters 
Duly Constituted Law Enforce- Salvation Army· 
ment Officers Secret Service 
FBINA Graduates u. S. Marshals. 
Hotels· 
Immigration and Naturaliza-­
ti on Servic~ 
(4) The following may appear on the list: 
Automobile Clubs 
Banks 
[Car ~ental Agencies] 
County Attorneys 
County Coroners 
Credit Companies 
Detective Agencies 
Enlistment Officers,[U. s. Air 
Force,]Army, Navy, Marine Corps 
Employment Service 
Fire Departments 
Forest 1 Service 
Gunsmi:ths 
Insurince Companies 
Movie'studios 
Navy Shor~ Patrol. 
Oil Company Special .A:gents· 
Parole and Probation Officers 
Plant Quarantine Officers 
Protective Associations. 
Race Tracks 
,Savings and Loan Associations 
Service Recruiting Officers 
State Employment Otfices 
State Hospitals.for Insane 
Steamship Companies 
Telegraph Companies· 
U. S. Attorneys 
U. s. Commissioners 
c. Identification orders, wanted flyers, and check circulars are to be 
furnished newspapers and periodicals only upon their specific request. 
Should a compelling reason· exist for distriou-tion-· of an identification 
order, a wanted flyer, or a check circular, such as possible employment 
of a fugitive by a newspaper or periodical, secure Bureau approval ·for. 
such distribution. 
d. Give consideration to the desirability of circularizing motels. 
e. Veterans Administration (VA) installations should be circularized ·on 
identification order fugitives who are veterans. Office of origin 
has responsibi;Li!y for _instructing other -offices to initiate distribu­
tion to VA installations in such cases. 
4 
2-27-62 NW 38321 Docld:32989529 945 
I 
( 
\ 
