13-00000 
.. 
To the contrary, judicial review has been a potent factor in making the FOIA as 
useful a tool of democracy as it is. Indeed, it has been persuasively argued that the ' 
courts are not sufficiently diligent in reviewing agency classification decisions. 13 • 
The CIA has warned of •costly legal challenges that risk second-guessing of 
• DCI/CIA judgments.• This is a .considerable exaggeration since in practice, no judge 
would reject a sworn affidavit from the DCI that certain information must be withheld. 
But at the same time, CIA classification judgments are in need of the checks and 
balances that judicial review would provide, particularly when it comes to the invocation 
of "sources and methods.8 Thus, the Secrecy Commission last year found that: 
the sources and methods rationale has become a vehicle for agencies to 
automatically keep information secret without engaging in the type· of harm 
analysis required by executive orders as a prereqtJisite to keeping other kinds of 
information secret The statutory requirement that sources and methods be 
protected thus appears at times to have been applied not in a thoughtful way but 
almost by rote.~4 
Federal co4rt judges will never reject a "thoughtful" or even a merely plausible 
argument about the need to protect intelligence sources and methods. But the 
possibility of judicial review will serve to discourage i~defensible "rote• classification. 
Dire warnings of the consequences of judicial review of classification have not 
been borne out by the last 24 years of judicial review under the FOIA, and there is no 
reason to believe that courts would suddenly become reckless now when confronted 
with a balancing test. 
I would add that any suggestions of a "flood• of lawsuits resulting from this 
provision are certain to be exaggerated. For the typical FQIA requester, th~re are huge . 
"barriers to entry" to the judicial .system. Legal representation is absurdly expensive, 
and pro bono assistance is generally available only in cases of considerable national 
importance or when victory is all but assured. In the last twenty years I must have filed 
hundreds of FOIA requests, but have brought suit under the FOIA only once. 
The absence of effective •checks and· balances• on executive branch 
classification actions has helped to produce today's bloated and highly arbitrary 
classification system. ~ balancing test that is subject to judicial review is the most 
13"National Security Information Disclosure Under the FOIA: The Need for 
Effective Judicial Enforcement,• Boston College Law Review 25: 611-643 (1984). 
14Commission Report, Chapter Ill, page 70, emphasis added. 
7 
