SECRET 
DOD has a program providing for enlistment in the 
U. S. Army of those Cuban nationals between the ages of 18 
and 30 who pass entrance requirements. (A· similar program 
for the Navy covers ages 18-26). The program provides 
20-22 weeks of training at the conclusion of which they 
are transferred as individuals to U. S. Reserve status. 
They are not required to know English. .A two week period 
for resettlement is also provided at the termination of 
the training. 
Another DOD program enables former officers of the 
Cuban Army, Navy and Air Force to volunteer on a highly 
selective basis for programs in the U. S. Armed Forces. 
Training perioas are from 20 to 36.weeks. English is 
necessary .. The officers are in civilian status. They 
receive a salary from the Cuban Revolutionary Council and 
a per diem through DOD from AID funds which are no longer 
available. 
Considerations: 
This course of action would provide the simplest and 
most economical way of disposing of the problem, provide 
equal treatment for all eligible Cuban refugees; equivalent 
to benefits offered to American citizens. 
Individual Cubans could continue to be accepted for 
service in the U. S. Armed Forces and their language, skill 
and country knowledge could be distributed through various 
U.S. units which might be used in an invasion. 
The unsatisfactory aspects of this course are that 
it would appear to run counter to expectations of the Brigade 
as a result of Administration statements and actions; it • 
would result in substantial loss of whatever "mystique" 
the Brigade possesses, which might be useful in unifying 
Cuban refugees; and a phasing out of this kind would 
probably engender some adverse political reaction 
domestically as well as from the Brigade and its 
sympathizers.~ Also it might have an undesirable ef feet 
on opinion in Latin America and other parts of the . 
Free World concerning the det.erminatiori of the United States 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32276061 Page· 114 
