13-00000 
. , 
-APR 15 '97 05:01PM USGOVERNMENT 
SECRET 
Subject: CIA Employees 
substitution-for the true name be used. If the Review Board 
is concerned about tracking particular employees thro~ghout 
the records, a particular identifying substitution can be 
used for a particular employee." 
20. (S) CIA believes that this approach will not 
undermine the Review Board's- ob;tigations under the JFK Act. 
A review of the JFK Collection reveals that approximately 84 
·of the 600 names appear only once- in the_entire Collection. 
In such-cases, it is difficult to see how the individuals' 
identity can add anything of significance to the historical 
record; yet there may be some security concerns· still 
associated with these individuals. For example, Arthur H. 
Stimson retired under cover and is currently living in 
Europe. When the CIA notified him that his name appeared in 
the JFK Collection and was subject to public release, he 
told.CIA that he was opposed to having his name released and 
believed such a release could pose personal and security 
problems. Furthermore, he could not understand why his name 
even appeared in.the Collection, since he had no 
recollection of being involved in anything related to the 
assassinatibn. 
21. (S) -With regard to the approximately 500 names 
that appear more than once in the Collection, the vast 
majority of these individuals played almost no role in the 
·JFlC story. One example of this is former DO officer 
Alexander Brasko. His name appears approximately 20-30 
times.in the Collection simply because he signed off.on name 
trace requests. Mr. Brasko was a covert CIA.employee and· 
retir~d under cover. The public release of his name would 
proviqe the public with no additional significant 
info:r:ma.tion about JFK. Tom Flores is another example of a 
covert CIA employee whose name appears in the Collection but 
has' l.ittle or no connection to the JFK story. . Plore_s 
retired under cover, is living in South America, and objects 
to the release of his name. Mr. Flores• recent letter to 
CIA is also attached for your convenience. 
22. (S) The Agency, of course, recognizes that some 
names may be particularly important· to the JFK story 
regardless of how frequently or infrequently they appear in 
the Collection. One such example is former COS Mexico 
Winston Scott who CIA has acknowledged as a CIA employee. 
In such cases, the CIA will continue to work with the Review 
Board for an appropriate resolution. The CIA proposes that 
the R~view Board and its staff identify those individuals 
whom it believes are important to the JFK story and whose 
names should be released to the public. These names would 
carry a presumption of_release unless specific evidence is 
provided to the.Review Board that harm wou!d likely.result 
7 
SECRET 
