13-00000 
.• .. 
-2-
3. Cuba - Peace Feelers 
Mr. Bundy stated that is has come to the attention of the White 
House that Castro would like to have a talk designed to bring about 
some kind of "arrangement" with the U.S. To hear what Castro has to 
say and to know on what basis he might wish to negotiate would be of 
some use to the U.S. Mr. Bundy suggested that for this initial talk 
Mr. William Attwood, currently on the staff of Mr. Stevenson at the 
United Nations, might be a likely candidate since Mr. Attwood has been 
in touch with Mr. Carlos Lechuga Hevia, the Cuban Ambassador to the 
United Nat:ions. Also, Attwood has a fairly friendly relationship with 
Castro based on previous acquaintance. 
In the Group discussion which followed it was thought inadvisable 
to allow Mr. Attwood, while on the UN staff, to get in touch with Castro. 
The suggestion was made that he might be removed from his official UN 
status and then go to Cuba for the ostensible purpose of writing an 
article for Look magazine. In this way it might be learned how badly 
Castro might want a detente with the United States. 
It was suggested by Mr. Helms that it might be profitable to 
"war game" this problem and look at it from all possible angles before 
making any contacts. 
A further suggestion was made by Mr. Bundy that Dr. Rene Vallejo 
Ortiz, Castro's aide and personal physician, might be flown to Mexico 
with Castro's proposals and discuss them with the U.S. Ambassador in 
Mexico City. 
The Attorney General emphasized that as a prelude to all this the 
U.S. must require some fundamental steps such as the end of subversion 
~n Latin America and removing the Soviet troops in Cuba before any serious 
discussion can take place about a detente. 
Mr. McCone stated that it might be possible to use again Mr . 
. James Donovan who is known to have excellent relationships with Dr. Vallejo. 
Vallejo might be flown to the UN for such talks or better still Donovan 
could go to Cuba. 
It was decided by the Special Group members not to try to reach a 
firm decision at this time but to study the problem for several days and 
attack it again. 
Distribution 
Mr. Johnson 
Mr. Gilpatric 
Mr. McCone 
• 
