SECRET 
steady campaign against Cuban activ.iti~s, and the Costa Rican 
Security Service, at the urging of the CIA station·, has destroyed 
tons of propaganda brought into the country from Cuba. 
7. Dominican Republic - Efforts to get Juan Bosch to 
take active steps against Communists and travellers to and 
from Cuba have been fruitless to date, as have been efforts 
to establish a new and effective internal security organi.za­
tion in the Dominican Republic. Bosch appears to have lost 
his previously stated enthusiasm .for such a service, but 
efforts to persuade ~im to approve a proposed budget for 
the service are continuing. 
8. Ecuador - Station reports that, largely as a result 
of both overt and covert propaganda activities of U.S. 
agencies in Ecuador, the public awareness of Cuban subversion 
has changed from apathy to genuine concern. The government, 
however, is no more inclined to take action than before. 
The National Director of Immigration has stated that he 
personally would like to do whatever he can to stop travel 
to Cuba, which he reali.zes is for subversive purposes, but 
present laws do not permit him to impede travel via thJrd 
countries. He is exploring possibilities of reprisals 
against citi.zens who return from Cuba. He has checked 
a list of names and passport numbers obtained by CIA 
from airline manifests in Mexico, and reports that not 
one name or passport number corresponds with official 
Ecuadoran records, indicating the possibility of 
fabrication of passports by Cuba. 
A recent Ecuadoran returnee from Cuba, recruited 
by the station, lost his hand in testing a homemade bomb made 
in accordance with instructions received in Cuba. He made 
a public statement and wide publicity was arranged by the 
station and USIS. Plans are to keep this incident alive 
as proof of revolutionary training given in Cuba for 
terrorist activity in Ecuador. 
The station chief has accompanied the American 
Ambassador on visits to the Ecuadoran Ministers of Defense 
and Government to stress the threat of Cuban backed 
subversion. 
Approximately 7,000 pounds of Communist propaganda 
are being destroyed monthly as a result of a unilateral 
operation of the CIA Base in·Guayaquil. 
SECRET 
NW -~095.~ Docld.: 32424015 Page 13 • 
