13-00000 
The ISCAP, meanwhile, is doing a fine job, but on a tiny scale. And it is already 
operating at full capacity, although its tasks are expected to escalate sharply in coming 
years. As ISCAP Chair Roslyn Mazer has noted, • 
When I consider what the next few years may hold for ISCAP, I fear that to a 
considerable extent we may become victims of our own successes- and the 
caseloads that these successes may engender. Unfortunately, ISOO [which 
also supports the ISCAP] is a very small organization that faces ever-increasing 
demands on its resources from the dramatic changes in the classification and 
declassification systems now underway .... the onus on the ISCAP's staffing 
structure may very well prove too much to bear.17 
• Therefore, one straightforward "fix' that Congress might consider, at least in the 
interim, would be to significantly increase the stature and resources available to these 
two organizations so as to help fifl in the •missing link• of executive branch oversight. 
But whether Congress chooses to invigorate the existing oversight entities or to 
establish a new National Declassification Center, the goal should be one that has been 
clearly formulated by the Secrecy Commissior:-i: 
. I 
Oversight should be the ·responsibility of a strong and active organization, 
independent of the agencies that classify, perhaps modeled after agency 
inspector general offices. To be truly effective, such an organization should also 
possess the means to compel agency compliance with established policies .... 
Equally critical is that such a body have adequate resources, wheth_er through a 
budget line item or the reallocation of resources from the principal classifying 
agencies. 18 
3. What About the "Other" Classification System? 
If the Government Secrecy Act became law, we would not just have a statutory 
secrecy system- we would have two statutory secrecy systems: one for national 
security information and one for atomic energy information, prescribed by the Atomic 
Energy Act of 1954. This may be too much of a good thing. 
The existence of two parallel classification systems has proven to be a 
significant obstacle to efficiency in secrecy policy, as numerous records must undergo 
separate declassification reviews under each system. 
17Remarks by Roslyn Mazer, footnote 2 above. 
18Commission Report, Chapter 2, page 44. 
9 
