...... .. ·- • 
RE: UUITBD STATES smm.TB SEL'.ECT co:lM:tTTEE TO STUDY GOVElU:R-1EtlTat 
OPEfu"\T:tONS W:CTH RESPECT TO INTl:lLLIGENCE ACTIVITrnS ( SSC-) 
name was deleted. As previously indicated, during 1972 the ADE)t 
·wao evaluated and revised. Fol.lowing this revision, tho· nu.rnber 
of individuals who were included on the A.DEX began to decline 
o.nd thus the high number of oanoolled cards. In aocordanoo with 
Bureau policy, which was instituted during the S:t P,rogrrun, these 
cancelled cards are maintained at FBIIIQ for a period of three 
years and there is no way to rcoonutuct a fa:t"nor SI or ADDX list 
for a particular timC\ period by rovie~1ing thcsa cm.nccllA.d cards . 
Those cards, howcvor, ,1ill reflect the identity of those in­
dividuals who have been placed on the SI and the ADBX for tho 
period for which these oards were maintained. 
Per your request., these out.dated SI and l\D:CX cards 
arc available for review by appropriate SSC roproscntivca 
at. FBIHQ. In this regard, SSC Staff Uembers !,!art.ha Talley and 
John T. Dlliff hnvo had accens to these cards on -October 30, 
1975, and November 1, 1975 1 rospcotively. 
During 11X,'. Blliff's review of these cards, tho names 
Shelley Blum., r-unan.uel James Brisker,. Jr. , and Gregory Allan 
Calvert were selooted by Mr .. Elliff in connection with request 
number b-10 of your October 28, 1975, letter. Documents re­
quested regarding those individuals arc cncloncd. 
A review of pertinent files ut FB::tHQ regarding the SI 
and the RI indicates thore are no other versions of t.hc former 
SI or RI at FDIHQ. contact was also t.1.0.de with knowl.edgcubla 
individuals of our New York City Field Office anc1 it was doter­
mined these programs had boon hnndlod in accordnnce with than 
existing FBIHQ policy and no other vorsionsof t.hcoc programs 
,1orc compiled by that office-. 
.Ma.t$rialn requested for do1ivcry under ite.-n nur:tber 
four of your October 28, 1975, let:tcr are encl.oseu. In thio re­
gard, it is noted thG correct FBIUQ filocnu.ri1..ber for tho Em.~a 
Lazarus Federation of Jewish Women's Clubs is l00-400394 and 
tho co~rect file nUL."'lllbor for tho file regarding Com.~unist Infil­
tration of i:.he Mational Association for the Advancement of 
Colored People is 61-3176. ln order to ho responsive to your 
rGqu.est, pertinent documents of the typo desired aro being fur­
nished regarding those organizations from these files. 
Enclosures • (10) 
1 - The Attorney General 
- -s -
NW 38296 Docld:32989550 Page 44 
