13-00000 
... 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENqE AGENCY 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505 
General Counsel 
Ronald Haron, Esq. 
General Counsel 
Assassination Recqrds Review Board 
600 E Street N.W., 2nd Floor 
Washington D.C. 20530 
Dear Mr. Haron: 
29 July 1998 
Congratulations on your recent appointment as General 
Counsel to the President John F. Kennedy Records Review Board 
( •Review Board•). You have my assurances that, as the Review 
Board enters its final stages of the review and release of 
t 
records pertaining to President Kennedy's assassination, you will 
continue to have CIA's full cooperation. 
I am in receipt of the 15 July 1998 letter from former 
General Counsel Jeremy Gunn in which he outlines CIA's 
outstanding obligations under the President John F. Kennedy 
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44 U.S.C. § 2107 
("JFK Act•). While I-recognize that much.work needs to be done 
over the next few months, I am confident that J. Barry Harrelson, 
Senior Review Officer for CIA's Historical Review Program 
( "HRP•) ,. together with the rest of the Agency team dedicated to 
document review under the JFK Act, will complete the outstanding 
obligations set forth in that letter. 
With respect to the Review Board's request that CI~··submit a 
Final Declaration of Compliance under penalty of perjury, we are 
in the process of identifying the appropriate CIA official to 
sign such a Declaration. Both HRP and my office will work 
closely with you to ensure the Declaration contains the 
recommendations made in Mr. Gunn's letter. 
With respect to the suggestion that CIA execute a separate 
affidavit by an officer from each of the CIA's four Directorates 
as well as from the DCI area, the Office of Information 
Management, and the counterintelligence components of the 
Directorate of Operations, I believe that this is an 
unnecessa,rily cumbersome and confusing means by which to. attest 
to Agency-wide record searches. Rather, I propose that the 
Executive Director of the CIA appoint one senior official as a 
Records Validation Officer ("RVO"). An RVO has the authority to 
locate, identify, and preserve records created or maintained by 
any Agency Directorate or component which are actually or 
