13-00000 
SECRET 
.. 
another example, not a President but a Secretary of State, Deai\~usk. We put 
out at one point, Des was DDP at the time, we put out a very good report from 
an asset from behind the Curtain, if I can still use the old phraseology. And 
so, it was a good report. And suddenly we get a call, the DDPs, not the 
office but the DDP mechanism, gets a call, a requirement he get a call from 
somebody in the State Department asking for the identity of the source. The 
guy comes hot footing it up to me and says, "Sam, the State Department wants 
to know the source." I said, "Who in the State Department? State Department 
wants to know. Tell me who." "Secretary wants to know." I said, "Oh, okay. 
You have whoever-you were talking to tell the Secretary to call Des Fitzgerald 
or Dick Helms. It's simple." "I can't say that." I said, "Well, if you 
can't, I will. The man is crazy. We don't give sources." And so, I go in 
and tell my boss that such and such is going to happen. He might get the call 
from Dean Rusk on-the secure line. I tell him what the story is, and he says, 
"Okay I will wait for the call." And sure enough, I happened to be in the 
office on something else when the call came later that day, and it was Dean 
Rusk. And I could tell from the conversation what is going on. And it points 
out that Dean Rusk didn't want to know t~e identity of the source, never asked 
for the identity of the source. All he wanted to know was how good is this 
piece of information. And Des said, "I'll put my arm in the fire up to the 
shoulder blade. It's a good source." Knew what he meant. End of 
conversation. You know, Presidents don't ask, Secretaries of the State don't 
ask for details that they shouldn't. They know that. And they've been around 
long enough. I mean, I don't know about Jimmy Carter, but the other guys 
don't. And so, I think Presidents .knew in general terms that there was mail 
opening, wire tapping, and that kind of stuff. Well, they engaged it 
37 
SECRET 
