Review of Manuel Ray files 
Volwne if/ of xviii 
Page 2 
6. Field Inf'ormation Report 
·sECRET Betsy Palmer 
Subject: Background, Character and Economic Concepts or Nanuel Ray Rivero 
Date: J.6 March 1961 
Sources: uDr• Oscar SALAS :MarrerJ(pa.ragraphs l-ll) Knew Ray in Cuba 
Dr.·. Jose ALVAREZ __ ,~iaz, former.Minister of Finance under Prio/(Pg 
-Dr.' Jorge·':BERIJFF,~'former president of.' Banco de "Desarrollo _J 
·;,Economico • de Cuba:J(pg 13) . 
Note: Cover note pencilJe d COI:lI!lent (The ,content is so biased and mixed 
with untruth that it would be a disservice to the intelligence conmn.mity 
to disseminate it. 
Synopsis of paragraphs J.-ll. Dr. SaJ.as says during his childhood Ray was 
a Protestant but today is completely atheistic. Said Ray organized. the MRC 
against Batista and shortly after Batista's faJ.J., MRC and 26th of July 
Movement fuSed into one, ans as soon as Castro crune into power, control 
of.' the organization was given to the Communists. Tells of Ray's association 
with Castro and that he did not resign his position when his own brother 
was renounced. by Castro. Stated that Ray's rupture with Fidel was due 
to the fact a.hat Ray opposed the idea of shooting Hubert Matos as a 
traitor. Rey resigned. his post but said publicly that he approved and 
supported the Ca.st...-o regime without any mental reservations. Says in 
Cuban clandestine circles Ray is regarded as boastful, ostentatious and:: 
deceitfuJ.. Intimate :friends of Ray feel that he is a man of anti-democratic 
procedures, and does not like to take advice, even :from raembers of his own 
movement. 
Synopsis of paragraph 12. Dr. Alvarez said Ray w-as in favor or maintaining 
relations with USSR and not making Cor:mrunist Party illegal. Said that 
although Ray withdrew all these statements when threatened with press 
coverage, Alvarez thinks they are representative of Ray's thin..'tlng and 
would try to put ideas into practiu-e if he ever came to power. Alverez 
also mentioned Rays thinking on-nationalization of public services, 
socialized. medicine, nationalization of banks, etc. 
Syno:9sis o.f :paragraph J.3. Dr. Beru....-f'f' s2.id Ray well-intentioned. with no 
Communist tendencies. Cited a meeting at which the basic points of the 
MRP platform were discussed and said that since Rey was in disagreement with 
the others on most of the points, Dr. Felipe Pazos acted as ch~rman of the 
meeting and Ray argued his case as a simple meraber of' the group. Out of this 
meeting CaJne a declaration of 14 points, including the nationalization of 
the banks and public utilities. 
On 9 March, Rey said that ideas attributed to him in paragraph l2 w-ere not 
true and :part of a 
1
' ca.--:rp2ign against hi::: by Hr. Pawley of -the Mi .,n; City 
'l'ransi t Campa.•\/'. 
SECRF.T 
