13-00000 
SECRET 
24 April 1996 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD 
SUBJECT: Interview with John Whitten (S) 
1. ·on 22 April 1996, from approximately 1000 to 1600, 
Jeremy Gunn, General Counsel of the JF.K Revi~oard, and I· spoke 
'with Mr.· John Whitten at the U.S. embassy in~en§. Gunn . 
conducted the interview by showing Whitten varidus documents and 
his prior testimony before the HSCA. Mr. Whitten was eager to 
, help the Board in any way he could and «:ven offered to come to 
the US if need be. Gunn concluded that it would probably not be 
useful to take.Whitten•s deposition at a later date. Although 
Whj, t ten had in general a good memory, ,Gunn felt he did not add 
, anything of significance to his prior testimony be for~ the HSCA . 
. After the interview, Mr. Whitten took us to his apartment and 
. then later to a restaurant with his wife. We left Mr. Whitten 
• about 1900. (S) • 
2. Mr. Whitten wa's extremelyworried and upset about the 
release of his name and on several occasions in the interview was 
on the verge of tears. Although I was expecting him to be angry 
with CIA and the Board, ·instead, he clearly felt hurt and • 
betrayed. His obvious physical problems add to this ·feeling of 
being vulnerable. ·physical!¥ he is not well;' he is paralyzed on 
his left side and has. great difficulty walking;· .On a map;· he:·.:"·· · 
pointed· out his apartment and indicated what he believed to be 
serious threats to his safety should his affiliation with CIA 
• • e_kno:wn. Ni..thin_a block of his a12artment, he pointed out 
the headquarters of the PKK, the Anarchist party and a bar wh~ 
man Middle Easterners would con rega~H~then -pointed ou~ • 
ese places to us when we went to7hs apartment. He made it 
clear that there was no way he could defend himself from any 
attack. (S) -
3. Mr. Whitten also stated that he has been retired for 
almo.st as long as he worked for t CIA, and that he has a 
complete different life now in Vienna He and his wife have 
.lived in~enna approximately 25 years. He is a member of 
' rious musical and art societies. He sings in a prominent 
enn~lMen's Choir. He has published various articles on music 
1s specialty is .Johann Strauss). He has received many medals 
: f9r his work in the· arts[!:n Vienna7 which we saw when we went to 
his apartment. (S) 
4. Mr. Whitten is also greatly J.ed about the fact that 
.he committed perjury e_n_ap.,.P-1 in for Au~tri~ residency by 
stating he.worked for the State Depar menc. e believes this 
SECRET 
CL BY: ~224130} 
CL REASON: 1. 5 (c) 
DECL ON: Xl 
DRV FM: HUM 4-82 
