14-00000 
. . 
11u • ...:..1 =' 
. ,, 
,• 
S E C R E T 
"S. Plays a direct .Tole in sensitive counterintel R 
ligence liaison with closely allied foreign intelligence 
services on ltostile penet.r.a.tion plans and operations. 
''6. Reviews· compati'bili'ty between cover and 
asstgnments of CIA staff members. 
"7. Maintains cen'tral· data on leaks to the news 
media and assists the Office ~f Security, as ne~essary, 
in determini~g the sources .of .leaks, 
1'8. Maintains central data on the nature and 
extent of known compromise ·of Agency staff personnel 
to intelligence services·,· whe'ther liaison or hostile. 
119. Prepares stud;.es of individuals, including 
&fiournalistslwhose fore~gn intell~gence connections are 
a source o-'! c~ncern. 
1110. Carries out -additional and sensitive tasks as 
assigned by the C/C!, '' 
The first chief of the Special Investigation Unit (SIU) (as 
it was called in CS! NO. 70Rl) was Birch O'Neal, a former FBI 
officer who had transferred to CIA after World WaT II.* In the ' 
mid-fifties,...,SIG had rather slim picking and appears to have spent 
most of i tS"time i6vestigating various aspects of the {i~YFO_t{f] 
complex (the~oris Morroilcase) as it affected US interests based 
on information the Agency acquired from foreign sources. Then in. 
1962 SIG received its biggest shot in the arm with the defection 
of Golitsyn who brought with him several dozen leads to American 
ci~izens includi~g some supposedly in CIA. The•handling of these 
leads was assigned to SIG by Angleton, including the information 
emanating from Golitsyn, which related to foreign countries, Thus 
OtNeal and his assistant, Jean Evans, played a major role in 
directing the handling of the Golitsyn leads (or "Serials" as 
Angleton invariably called them). ,The activity continued through­
out the sixties reaching its apex in the period 1964-65 when the 
HONETOL investigations (of CIA staff officers) was at its most 
*The term Special Investi-gations Group (SIG) became common 
usage in the sixties but no exact date can be assigned for 
this change, 
S E C R E T 
145~ 
