Mr. William M. Kent joined the Agency in December 
1951. He had previously received~ d~gree in diplomatic 
and public relations from the Latin American Institute, 
New York City and had served time in the U.S. Army from 
1946 to 1948. He graduated from the Latin American 
Institute with-the ,highest honors ·and 4 awards. 
Mr. Kent was initially assigned to the Office of 
Special Operations as a clerk typist ~d, 11after six 
months, in June 1952, was assigned to(ganamj] as an 
intelligence officer under non.:.official .cover. In July 
1~56 he returned to Headquarters where he worked as an 
area operations officer, in the Western Hemisphere Divi­
sion. After a. successful stint i'.n- the Cuba1#-,~,S:tion he 
was assigned as an operations office1i~P-~ara~a§}. After 
an excellently productive tour in(J:aradi~ Mr. Kent was 
selected to join JMWAVE in Miami. There he really shone 
as attested to in the following quote fr~m his fitness 
report: "He has been placed in most difficult positions, 
particularly i.n the handling of incompatible people and 
groups which .he has managed without alienating either 
side artd on various occasions accomplishing the impossible 
by satisfying everyone concerned." After his tour in Miami, 
he headed several ~ections in Headquarters in the Western 
He~isphere Division. In 1967 he was transferred to New 
Orleans and then to the Washington Base. In both places 
he worked under ,film-official cov:,!)'2.Lt From 1970 until his 
retirement he served in several capacities ranging from 
the planning and guiding of Covert Action programs to 
occupying managerial· positions. During these eight years-
he received seven.strong and three outstanding overall 
ratings. Of special· note are the various.:_commend.at-ion,c - _ -=- ~"''~ 
and laudatory reports, concerning Mr. Kent's performance during 
the "Chilean crisis". Because of his excellent performance 
during the Chilean crisis he again was asked to help the 
Latin American Division during several investigations. He 
performed admirably as reflected in a commendation· written 
by the Deputy Chief of LA Division on 5 December 1975: 
"When confronted with a need to produce a paper on Chile in 
a short timeframe, I instinctively turned to him. It was not 
only because he had expertise on Chile, but to service iri 
the Chile Branch, but because he is highly skilled in written 
presentation. He organizes his material well and presents 
it in a lucid;-highly readable manner. On the first occasion, 
he helped us prepaie a paper that was eventually used by the 
Direct~r in his presentation before the Senate Select Com-
mittee.On 14-15'July. On the second occasion his contribution 
I .. I • .• • 
