13-00000 
\ 
Q:ould. do. 
0
Progr·ess sloweiand, behind schedule, the team reached the base 
camp from where the final ascent to the mountain's surm1it would be made by ,. . 
a small party of climbers accompanidd by a few porters. Soon after the 
group had started for the peak, one of the Sherpas returned to base camp to 
tel_l the CIA man, who had remained behind to handle communications with the 
staging area, that the Indians were causing ;rouble at the_ higher altitudes. -
The case officer immediately set out to reach Bishop and the summit team in 
an effort to restore peace among the· climbers. The project \-1as now well off 
schedule. and any more delays would have endangered the entire expedition 
because of the onset of bad weather. With some difficulty, the Agency 
operator was able to get the team moving again, and it finally reached.its 
tar.get near the top of the Nanda Devi'. Amidst howl 1ng winds and at temperatures 
well below zero, the climbers assembled the monitoring device and put it into 
.(. operation. Hith spirits high, the group returned to base camp and the news 
-i '·· 
of the successful installation was ~adioed back to the staging area. 
But within a few short months, the signals that the sensor had been 
sending from the Nanda Devi stopped. The CIA dispatched a plane to fly over 
the mountain and photogr~ph the monitoring site. It was learned that the 
device had been knocked over by a sno\-1 slide. When the Indian government 
was informed of the development, it complained to the CIA station 1n Delhi 
that the nuclear generator might be polluting the headqaters of the sacred 
Ganghes River which flow out of the Himalayas. The Indian concern was about 
religious pollution, not ecological. 
The CIA reacted by planning another cl imbfof the mountain for the following 
year, both to retrieve the damaged equipment and implace a new monitoring 
system -- this one powered by a non-nuclear generator. The climbing team, 
(-. led by Bish6p, was gathered together again and this time it reached the 
top of the mountain with comparatively little difficulty. The new device was 
set up, but after an extensive search~ the atomic generator from the year-, <(:-, . -J <-'-,. 
. . ~ • 
,,t.,f ... 
