[ . 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS[.AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES] 
• • 
107M 
4. [Subfiles] 
a, .A subfile is required on each informant who submits s.tatements, written 
or oral,[exoept in espionage or foreign nationality matters where a 
subfile is necessary only in those insta.noes involving possible 
pro seoution.] The original of each statement, whether pers·onally 
written by the informant or furnished orally and reduced to writing 
by contacting Agent, should be filed in this subfile, Executed form 
FD-306 or a channelizing memorandum containing all applicable items 
set forth on form FD-306 should be stapled to the original of each 
such statement, 
b, Holes may be punched in original statements of informants for secure 
filing, but care must be taken to prevent obliteration of any portion 
of statements or notations thereon. 
5. [Channelization] 
Excerpts from the informant 1 s statement are to be included in the regular 
investigative case report when information of value is submitted, Form 
FD-306 may be used to disseminate this information. to the case file in 
lieu of a channelizing memorandum if desired. If so used, prepare copies 
of FD-306 as needed for dissemination and staple one copy to each copy 
of ~he informant's statement being channelized. Channelization should be 
noted on original FD-306 and on all copies under "Remarks, 11 
6, [Dissemination of information] 
Information submit~ed by informants, potential informants, confidential 
sources, or sources of information should be reported to the Bureau and 
interested offi.ces and· other agencies whenever necessary by the appro­
priate means of communication under captions[ showing]the subject matter 
of the information. 
7. [Correspondence] 
Correspondence submitted in security informant and potential security 
informant matters should be strictly limited to the administrative 
handling of the informant and should not contain information more prop­
erly furnished to the Bureau under a substantive case caption. 
8, [Maintenance of files] 
a, .All pending files on security informants shall be maintained under 
lock and key under the personal supervision of the S.A.C, ASAC, or field 
supervisor as the informant indices are mainta~.ned and described in 
subsection K. 
b. Subfiles containing written statements may be maintained in the open 
files· section, provided there is no disclosure of the informant's 
identity on the statements, 
c, All informant files should be maintained in such a manner as to insure 
that all information furnished by a particular informant will be 
immediately available upon the request of the Bureau, 
d, In addition, these files should be maintBined in such a fashion that 
the identities of the cases in v;hioh an informant has furnished 
competent evidence can be furnished immediately to the Bureau by 
simply referring to the file of the informant and without the necessity 
of conducting extensive research, 
9. [U~e of informant by Department - filing correspondence re] 
From time to time, the Depa.rtment e:q:iretises an interest in using a parJ.;ic­
ular informant for testifying when he becomes available as a witness, 
.As a result, there will be oorrespondence[showing]this situation between 
the Bureau and the field. Place copies of all such correspondence in 
the -informant's file. Occasionally such correspondence may be volu­
minous arid apply to mo1·e than one informant, In those oases, summarize 
the inforrn.ation concerning each particular informant and place the summary 
in the appropriate informant's file, 
10. [ Form FD-238] 
Form FD-238 (printed on pink paper) has been approved for use in security 
informant and potential security informant files. I-!; is to be used in 
the nature of a table of contents or as an index to show where in the 
file part~cular data can be found, This form is to be kept as the top 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1795 17 
? 1 ? _I';() 
