C 
DETAILS: 
ORGANIZED CRIME 
ALBERT M. BILLITER! 
EXTORTIONATE CREDIT TRANSACTIONS 
Billiteri is a Buffalo, New York La.Casa Nostra 
member in the "family" of "Commission" member Steve Magaddino, 
and operates a major loan-shark racket in the Buffalo area on 
behalf of Joseph Fino, the "underboss" of the .Magaddino family. 
On 4/23/69, the Atto~ney General approved a recommendation for 
microphone and technical surveillance at two of Billiteri's 
key locations where this illegal activity is carried on. The 
Attorney General authorized a Department Attorney to handle 
the filing of affidavits with the Federal court in Buffalo, 
New York, to obtain the necessary court order for the 
electronic surveillance sought, pursuant to Title 3 of the 
Omnibus Crime Billo The Department Attorne~ in conjunction 
with our Buffalo office, ·was to make application to the court 
on 4/28/69, the necessary affidavits to be filed by a Bureau 
Agent. This is the first such application 1 we have made 
pursuant to the provisions of Title 3. 
MANHATTAN JOINT STRIKE FORCE 
The Department has proposed -a strike force with the 
stated objective of making a concentrated drive against 
organized crime in the borough of Manhattan in New York City~ 
This apparently has b~en enlarged to include the Bronx in 
view of the inclusion of the Bronx County District Attorney 
on the strike Force Councilo This strike force is to be 
composed of Department Attorneys, members of the staffs of 
the District Attorneys of New York and Bronx Counties, members 
of the New York City Police 1Jepartment and investigators from 
the various Federal investigative agencies, including the FBI. 
The Federal Government is to provide the office space and office 
equipment. A supervisory council has been named to make 
-decisions of strategy and timing and approve all planning. The 
r 
members of the Council have been named as Assistant Director 
in Charge John Fo Malone o:t our New York office, the District 
Attorneys of New York and Bronx Counties, Police Commissioner 
of New York City, Assistant Attorney General Will Wilson, the 
Assistant secretary for Law Enforcement of the Treasury 
Department, the Chief of the Organized Crime and Racketeering 
Section o~ the Department, and the Uo s. Attorney of -the 
Southern District of New York. 
-3-
.. 
NW 3 ~~~-u:321~'.'.li~'.)4 
, Page 572 
... 
.. . ', 
