r 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
....... 
D. Promulgation of NSAM 181 and the Response 
12. On 21 August the DCI attended a meeting in Secretary 
.Rusk's office at which were- also present Secretary McNamara, 
Under Secretary Johnson, the Attorney General, Gene'rals Taylor 
and Lemni tzer, and McGeorge Bundy. He told this group that in­
formation available since 10 August indicated the extent of So­
viet aid was much greater than preyiously thought, and that 
this probab1y included highly-sophisticated electronic installa­
tions or missile sites, probably ground-to-air. The DCI again 
raised the possibility that the Soviets would locate MRBMs in 
Cuba, and there developed a discussiori of possible US courses 
• of action in ca~e they did so. It was agreed that the DCI would 
fully brief the President the next day (which he did) and that 
Rusk, McNamara, Gilpatric, Taylor, Bundy and the DCI would dis­
cuss the si~uation with the Pres~dent on 23 August. 
13 .. At the meeting of the 23rd, a number of actions were 
decided upon to deal with what was agreed to be a critical 
problem for the United States. These actions were formalized 
in NSAM 181. (In addition, the President asked for a continu­
ing analysis of the number and ty~es of Bloc personnel and 
equipment in Cuba). Thus, by 23 August CIA had alerted the 
highest levels of the government to a rapidly unfolding Soviet 
military development in Cuba, including the-probable establ~sh­
ment of surface-to-air missile sites, and the danger of surface­
to~surface missiles. Furthermore the President had taken ac-
. tion on the intelligence received. There was at this time no . 
evidence of any sort that surface-to-surface weapons were being 
installed--in fact, the 1ffiBM uni ts had scarcely started en route • 
from the USSR--but the possibility had been discussed by the 
President and his advisors. 
14. The paragraphs of NSAM 181. applicable to CIA dealt 
with: a) release of information, b) MONGOOSE, ·and c) "An anal­
ysis /which? should be prepared of the probable military, po­
litical and psychological impact of the establishment in Cuba 
of ~ither surface-to-air missiles or surface-to-surface missiles 
which could reach the US." The first two subjects are outside 
the scope of this memorandum; the third exists as a memorandum 
dated 31 August prepared largely bi McGeorge Bundy and the DD/I. 
This paper, which had the benefit of preliminary results of the 
29 August U-2 mission, concluded that the introduction of sur­
:face-to-air missiles was the "most probable present Soviet mis­
sile activity," and that such missiles would be a serious 
threat to aerial reconnaissance, but not to "determined US at­
tack. 11 It stated that "surface-to-surface missiles with nu­
clear warheads would constitute a very significant military 
-6-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
_iJti..~ 
fl'OOl 
· ~ R fori lb~ 
