13-00000 
., SECRET 
PERSONNEL 
) 
HR.20-55c 
(2) The Director of Personnel will ascertain whether any staff or nonstaff 
personnel are available to perform the needed services. If not, he will 
examine the feasiblllty of satisfying the requirement by hiring new per­
sonnel. U this latter course of action also proves impracticable, the DI­
rector of Personnel will approve the proposal and return it either to the 
Office of Logistics or to the originator for subsequent submission of a con­
tract request to the appropriate proc:urement unit. Procurement contracts 
are written under the authority of the Director of Logistics as stated in 
HR 45-2. 
(3) The approval .of the Director of Personnel Is not required 
Ca) for procurement contracts involving the services of individuals inci­
dental to research and development or the preparation of studies or 
reports, where the fee reflects an end product (a report written, a 
. task performed, etc.) rather than a computation based mainly on 
time (per hour, per man year); , 
(b) for procurement contracts involving the purchase of equipment which 
requires the services of experts or technicians in delivery, Installation, 
testing, initial operation or maintenance, training, etc. However, any· 
follow-on contract for services only-such as maintenance or opera­
tion_:_requlres the Director of Personnel's prior approval as set forth 
above. • 
c. RESTRICTIONS 
(1) Operating Officials are responsible for monitoring all personnel acquired 
through these procedures. They will ensure that such personnel are prop­
erly briefed and thoroughly understand any limitations on their access to 
Agency information and buildings and other pertinent security restrictions. 
Operating Officials are required to advise appropriate offices at any time 
· the relationship or use of such Individuals is subject to a change. which 
•• affects the terms of their contractual arrangements, their status, or se­
curity clearances. 
(2) Technical representatives and other types of personnel engaged under 
procurement contracts or other agreements which do not cteate a direct 
employer-employee relationship are prohibited by law from holding formal 
organizational positions or positions requiring the exercise of any admin­
istrative· authority. They are also prohibited from, formally representing 
the Agency in meetings with representatives of other Government agen-
cies; private Industry, or foreign governments or industries. • 
56-59. Reserved. 
Revised: 23 February 19'73 ('733) 
·sECRET 
E2 IMPDET 
Cl By: 002230 
131 
I 
