6A 
SECTION 6. 
- PART II 
PUBLICATIONS , PRESS , AND PUBLIC CON.TS 
All news releases made by field offices should be issued over the c· 
name of the SACo They should be issued to ~11 interested news media 
in the field office territory as simultaneously as possible; and they 
should prov~de as full an account of the facts·as can be disclosed 
within the provisions of Section 50.2. In news releases announcing 
arrests or other developments attributable to the joint efforts of 
the FBI and other law enforcement agencies, appropriate recognition 
should, of course, be given to those other agencies. 
SACs may authorize other experienced Special Agents,'including 
Resident Agents~ in their field offices to read or deliver news 
releases issued over the SAC's name to news media after the SAC 
has approved those news releases6 However, those Spe~ial Agents 
should not expand upon the information in the news releases; and 
they should answer any inquiry or request for additional informa­
tion by courteously telling the newsman involved that his inquiry 
or request will be brought to the attention of the SAC as quickly 
as possible for his consideration and action. The reason for the 
policy of referring all such matters to the SAC is to assure both 
uniformity and accuracy of any supplemental information that is 
provided to news media.. • 
SACs also may authorize other experienced Special Agents to record 
news releases in compliance with requests of radio and television 
. stations. However, only SACs· or ASACs should make live or filmed 
television appearances involving the reading of news releaseso 
SACs have the option of accepting or declining such time-consum~ng 
requests made by radio and television stations. If declined, 
however, the declinations should be tactfully worded and explained .c· 
so as to avoid any impression of partiality .. If a request is 
accepted, the radio and/or television station involved should under-
stand that the SAC or the Special Agent designated by the SAC will 
merely read the text of _the news release and will not answer questions. 
On occasion, SACs also issue news releases or make announcements 
dealing with adminis-trative matters such as transfers of the SAC 
or-ASAC of the field office or presentation of service awards to 
personnel of the field office. On such occasions, photographs 
and biographical sketches of the personnel involved may be made 
available to the news mediao However, requests to -interview these 
employees about their official duties and experiences should 
tactfully be declined. 
le 
2-27-74 
( 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1005 
