:,: , ,, 
( 
[ 
( 
b. 
( 
'') 
SECTION 107.ECURITY IN~,0Rl1;\.HTS AND 107G 
( 6_} 
( 7) 
~ ~~ 
( 10) 
( 11) 
( 12) 
Info~mants should include, in the body of their statements specific 
dates and places; purpose of the meeting or activity being 
related; identities of speakers and persons prcsont, plus their 
known status in any group; specific activity enga~e~ in by each 
indi-viclual present; and corn.rnents made by each :i.ndivi,1.ual. 
Infor~ant should identify each page at the bottom by affixing 
his code name. Jrny correc·bions, erasures, chanter., or additions 
should be identified(by informant affixing his co4c name or the 
initials of his code name.] 
Agents' names should never appear on any page. 
Informaxd; should refer to himself in tho body of the statement 
by his true name and he should tise thu third parson. 
Agent receiving written statement should not make any corroctions 1 
additiono, deletions, etc., thereto, nor should he plaae any 
markings thereon, such as his inibials, date of receipt from 
informant,. permanent symbol munber of informant, file nurnbc:rs, 
indexing symbols, etc. 
Do not block sta,mp or serialize. Receipt 2-nd serialization 
should be recorded on form FD-3O6 or on a channelizing 
memorandum which should contain the applicable items set . 
forth on form FD-3O6. 
Extr?...neous maJ.;erial should be kept to an absolute minimum. 
Infor·mants should leave out such i terns as: 
(a) Any reference. concerning the Director and the Bureau 
(b) References to other document-s and statements submitted by 
the informant 
(o) Obvious adminis·t;r·ative mat"erii.al,. such as operational 
instr.ti.ctions given by contacting Agent to 1.nforman·!; 
These data should be fur_nished orally by informant to con­
tacting Agent who will record the information in me:::iorandum 
form for the informant file. . 
Fu.rnished orally by i,nformant 
(1) Contacting Agent should promptly reduce information to writing 
{ 4) 
( 5) 
so that it will be accurately recorded as contemporaneou3ly as 
possible with the making of the oral statement by the informant 
to the Agent. The_ following i terns furnished by infor.mant should 
be left out: 
f~~ 
( c) 
Any reference 
References to 
the informant 
concerning the Director and the Bureau 
other d9cuments and statements submitted, by 
Obvious administrative material,· such as operational 
instructions given by contacting Agent to informant. 
These data should be recorded in memorandum form for the inform­
ant file. 
Prepare on paper devoid of any Bureau markings or i~e~ 'ication. 
Date it at the top with the date the informant furnish_, the 
information to the Agent. No other date is desired ext~c:pt the 
date of the meeting or activity which shall be set forth in the 
body of the statement. • 
Separate statements should be prepared for each meeting or each 
separate activity in which informants engage and should be 
diotated by the Agent as if the informant were preparing them 
himself. 
The information, after being reduced to writing, should the:i. ·'!)e 
read promptly by the infornrnnt and acknowledgEld by :d:n by 
affixing•his code name on each page. In espionage a2d foreign 
nationality_matters authentication.by infor~ants, is necessary 
only where future prosecution is possible. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 1395 
li 
1-15-62 
