13-00000 
DRAFT 
Assassination Records Review Board 
600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530 
(202} 724-0088 • Fax: (202} 724-0457 
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION 10, j 
DEQ.ASSIFICATION ANO/OR \ October 17, 1997 RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIC>tl \ 
tN THlS DOCUMENT \' 
Mr. John Per'W'a 
Director 
Historical Review Group 
Center for the Study of Intelligence 
Central Intelligence Agency 
Washington,.DC 20505 
Re: Completion of Review of Assassination Records 
Dear John: 
.,· 
j 
0 
The Assassination Records Review Board ("Review Board") has less than one year to 
complete its statutory responsibility of ensuring that all Federal records related to the 
assassination of President Kennedy are made publicly available at the National 
Archives and Records Administration ("NARA"). Because of the importance to the 
Review Board of completing the review and release of Central Intelligence Agency 
records, I am taking this opportunity to raise with you some of our concerns and to 
describe our goals. 
Let me first reit~rate our deep appreciation for the cooperation that we have received 
thus far from the Agency. We are very mindful of the enormous amount of work that 
has been accomplished thus far. We very much hope to be able to report, at the 
completion of our work, that the Agency has fully complied ~ith the letter and spirit of 
the JFK Act and that the Review Board is confident that all CIA assassination records 
have been fully processed and transferred to the National Archives. Unfortunately, it is (/ 
clear at this point that the pace of review of CIA records will need to increase 
significantly during this final year so that the Review Board and the CIA will be able to 
complete our responsibilities and that the Review Board can issue the type of report 
that we all ideally envision. 
It is our goal to have all CIA assassination records reviewed and transferred to NARA 
by September 1, 1998. By ''all" assassination records, I include the unredacted originals 
as well as copies containing Board-approved postponements. (I am excluding, 
therefore, duplicates of those records that have been transferred to NARA.) The 
Review Board is prepared to take all necessary steps within its statutory authority to 
ensure that this work is accomplished. 
BoARO MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff· Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell 
