14-00000 I 
! 
AGENCY·INTER~A~ ~SE ONLY 
PRIVILEGED ATTOR~EY WORK PRCr:.·.:T 
SUBJECT: DCI Sources and Methods Authority With Respect to JFK 
Assassination Records 
(A) an intelligence agent whose identity currently 
requires protection: 
(B) an intelligence source or rr.ethod which is 
currently utilized, or reasonably expected to be 
utiliz·ed, by the United States Gove:-nment and which has 
not been officially disclosed, the disclosure of which 
would interfere with the ccnduct of intelligence 
activities: or 
(C) any other matter currently relating to ... 
intelligence operations ... the dis~losure of which 
would demonstrably impair the natio;.al security of the 
United States.• 
ARCA§ 6(1) (Emphasis added.) 
4. The originating agency is t= make tr.~ first review to 
ide~:ify information that meets tr.e s:andards for postponement. 
ARCA § 4 (c) (2) (D) (i). For CIA, this effort is being undertaken 
by t~e Historical Review Group, in consultati~n with the 
Dire:torate of Operations and other appropria:e Agency 
components. Information the originating ager.:ies identify for 
postponement must be transmitted to th~ Revie-., Boa_rd. _ ARC~ 
§ 4(c) (2) (E). The Review Board "shall consider and render 
decisions on a determination by a Government office to seek to 
postpone the disclosure of assassina:ion recc:-ds." ARCA§ 
7(i) (1). Specifically, the "Review 3oard sha:l consider and 
render decisions on ... whether an assassinat:on record or 
particular information in a record qJalifies ~or postponement of 
disclosure under the Act.• ARCA§ 7(i) (2) (B). 
5. If the Review Board determ:~es to o:-ier the disclosure 
of information that the originating agency fe:t met the criteria 
for postponement, it "shall notify the head c~ the originating 
body of its -determination and publish a copy of the determination 
in the Federal Register within 14 days after the determination is 
made.• ARCA§ 9(c) (4) (A). If the information contained in an 
assassination record is •obtained or developed solely within the 
execµtive branch, the President shall have the sole and 
nondelegable authority to require the disclosure or postponement 
of ... the information _under the standards set forth in 
Section 6. • ARCA § 9 (d) (1) (emphasis added). The President• s 
decision must -be certified _to~-the _Rev:ie_w Bo~rg "1ithi_n ~-0- days of 
,the Review Boards determination. Id. Records postponed by the 
·President must be re-reviewed every 5 years. ARCA§ 9 (d) (2). 
2 
PRIVILEGED ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT 
AGENCY-INTERNAL USE ONLY 
