( 
( 
..., •. r 
H. 
SECTION i07 -ECURITY INFORNA.NTS AND CONFID-IAL SOURCES • 
SYMBOLS 
1. As sig,ning numbers 
a. All informants should be designated by permanent symbol number of 
which Bureau must be advised. Once number assigned, it must not he 
subsequently reassigned to any other informant or so11rce. 
b. Potential security informants and confidential sources whose identity 
must be protected may be assigne·d perma.nent symbol numbers if ·they are 
producing suffi-cient information to warrant use of such designations. 
c. Individuals to whom permanent symbols assigned are not to be a.cl.vised 
of such symbols. 
d. Cover name should be used by informant in signing hi·s statements and 
in communications betwee.n informant and field office. Advise Bureau 
of cover name. 
e. Prefix of symbol number consists of appropriate field offic~ teletype 
abbreviation. Suffix of symbol number will consist of letter "S" for 
security informant; letters "PSI" for potential security informant; 
letters "CS II for confidential source. • 
f. Al though source may subseque,ntly furnish information requiring change_ 
in designation (e.g., from security to criminal or to racial, etc.), 
number previously assigned will remain same; however, suffix is to 
be chan~ed to appropriate letter or letters i~dicating this change 
(NY 000-S to NY 000-C or to NY 000-R). . 
2. Communications - use of symbols 
a. After Bureau is advised of permanent symbol, in subsequent communica­
tions true name .of informant should not be set forth; use symbol 
number. 
b. In all communications after initial letter, Bureau and field office 
file numbers for informant must be set forth. 
c. In communications between offices, follow same procedure. 
d. Informants and sources entering another division 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis should be referred to in initial letter to 
interested office by true name and symbol number if necessary 
for other division to know identity. Office receiving such 
letter should make appropriate index cards for "Informants and 
Sources in Other Divisions" index. Subsequent letters between 
interested offices may then identify individual by symboi number 
only. 
(2) Individuals who leave division where they have been furnishing 
inforw~tion and do not plan to return should be immediately 
discontinued, their symbol number, if any, should be cancelled, 
and their true name used in all administrative correspondence. 
(3) If informant is transferred to another office and-remains active, 
his identity must still be protected·. 
e. In cornmunicati ons concerning potential security informant when a 
symbol number is n.ot assigned, name of potential security informant 
and abbreviation "PSI" shall be used; e.g., "John Doe, PSI." 
f. In espionage and foreign nationality matters, caption of com~unica-
ti on should also show character and country designation (i.e., IS - R 
for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.). This facilitates routing 
at Bureau. 
I. INDEXING 
True names and aliases of all informants, as well as cover name ass.igned, shall 
be indexed in general office indices as any other name. Index cards should 
show file number of informant, but such terms as "Informant" or "Potential 
Security Informant" shall not appear. 
J. INDICES 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol number index 
Are to be kept by SAC, ASAC, or security supervisor consist-ent with. 
maximum security and best administrative practice 
a. Alphabetical name index 
In all offices maintain card index showing true identities of all 
security informants, potential security informants, and security 
confidential sources. This is to be known as alphabetical name index. 
File cards in alphabetical order. 
11 
11-12-70 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 1696 
