13-00000 
, .. ' SECRET 
(U) The index reference to the Defectors File 
identifies a list dated 13 September 1966 which was known as 
the Defector Machine Listing. This listing was a computer 
printout of defectors which reflected limited biographic 
data on each name. This listing was maintained separately 
from the actual Defectors File; notations within the 
Defectors File show the Defector Machine Listing as 
permanently charged to the Security Analysis Group of OS. 
Efforts to locate this listing or determine the disposition 
have been unsuccessful. 
(U) Information regarding the purpose of the Defectors 
File was gleaned from a quick review of selected holdings. 
lifatie Naka~of this office at one time was assigned to the 
Security Analysis Group and recalls the Defector Machine 
Listing. From her recollection, this machine listing was 
approximately one and one-half inches thick and was in two 
parts. One part consisted of an alphabetical index of 
defector names with assigned numbers. The second part 
listed the assigned numbers in numerical order and contained 
limited information on each name. 
(C) The Special Investigations Branch of Investigations 
Division is the current operating component encompassing most 
of the Security Analysis Group functions still conducted in 
OPS. '@ail Jew~ of this office was queried regarding office 
holdings relating to the Defector Machine Listing. Ms ~-------ewe 11 had no knowledge of the listing and suggested illiam 
• Gilber as a resource. ~- Gilb§ CIC Liaison Officer, 
could not recall the listing, opined it may have been 
destroyed, and suggested contacting'%achary Fili~of the 
Counterintelligence Center (CIC). 
(C) CIC assumed many of the functions previously 
conducted by the Security Analysis Group. f!-'!r. Fill.o/was 
queried regarding the possibility the Defector Machine 
Listing may have been transferred to CIC during the 
realignment of duties. Mr F~l.Ii:i>advised the Defector 
Machine Listing could not be located in CIC holdings; and he 
has.made inquiries with Directorate of Operations 
counterparts regarding the listing. 
4 
SECRET 
