., . 
C 
[ 
( 
Q.. 
SEC-~ION 107. SECURITY INFORNAHTS AND COHFIDEWl'llL SOURCES. 1070-R 
•
j ~ 
CORRECTIY1':: ACTION FALSE INFORNATIO}T W 
1. When it is determined that informant or ex-informant furnished false informa­
tion while informant,. promptly advise Bureau of complete facts. 
2. Set forth your suggestion relative to wording to be used in describing 
informant in future, such as: "inf orrnant of known unreliability" or 
"informant who has furnished both reliable and unreliable information in 
tlle past." 
3. Bureau will advise which designation to use. Then proceed with review of 
all data furnished by individual and label information from him accordingly. 
4. All communications containing information from informant which have been 
disseminated to Bureau, other Bu,__rea.u·offices, and to outside agencies 
must be corrected. • 
5. Identify cases individually by title and character, together w;ith dates 
of communications containing information. • 
6~ If information was used in reports, corrective letters should be.crystal 
clear and refer to specific report, page number, and change_ to be made. 
7. Amended pages should not be prepared unless so instructed by Bureau in 
accordance with part II, section 4, of Y~nual of Rules and Regulations. 
Corrective action should be calied to attention of qther Bureau offices, 
outside agencies, and Bureau by letter. 
8. Instruct each interested Bureau office whi-ch has made further dissemina­
tion of information to follow instructions set forth above. 
9. Set up control file regarding this corrective action, and upon completion 
of same submit to Bureau final letter under informant's caption identifying 
each case by title, character, Bureau file, v1here known, and date of com­
munication. This letter will be used to check all pertinent Bureau files 
to see that necessary corrective action has been taken. 
10. If necessary, other field offices vrhich h-a.ve received information from 
informant should also be requested to submit summary' letters showing what 
corrections have been made. 
11. All information from informant must be correctly labeled and great. carf 
must be taken to see that· this is done. 
12. Occasionally, ex-informant through his speech, writings, or actions raises 
a doubt as to his reliability subse~uent to time he was informant. It 
is not necessary to go back and change evaluation of information attributed 
to that individual in absence of definite indication that ·informant· furnished 
unreliable information while he was informant. • 
13. Dissemination of information from sources of questionable reliability and 
known unreliability should be made in accordance with part II, section 5, 
Manual of Rules and Regulations. 
R. CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES 
1. Definition 
See page 3 of this section. 
2. Assig1u:1ent of. symbols . 
a. A symbol number should be assig~ed from the time any step is taken 
to develop an individual as a. confidential source. 
b. Advise Bureau by[secure teletype (Nitel))giving name, address business 
affiliation, symbol number, reason for assigning symbol numbe; and 
brief statement concerning type of information furnished. ' 
c. Abbreviation 11CS11 may be used in intra-Bureau communications for 
confidential source; e.g., "Richard Roe, CS." Com."Ilunica.tions relating 
to espionage and foreign natio.nali ty matters should in addition 
have a character indicating country involved; e.g., IS·- R. 
a. When permanent symbol has been assigned to confidential source, 
abbreviation n,::su is to-appear before symbol number; e.g., CS NY 000-S. 
e. :Numbers assigned to confidential sources are to be taken from series 
of numbers used for security, extremist, and criminal informants.· 
21 
8-14-72 
NW ,68321 Docld:32989529 "Page 1181 
