DD/M&S 73-1809 • 
• 
•• 
MEMORAi':DUM FOR: Deputy Director for Management and Services 
SUBJECT l Contacts with Individua_ls Named in the Watergate ~fatter 
.. 
1. I am addressing this to you instead of to the Director of Central 
Intelligence since I doubt that the information contained herein is of such 
significance to warrant his interest and because it has been on record with 
the Agency since July 1972. However, if you feel that ti1e information is of 
such interest that it should be forwarded to the Director I shall put it in the 
proper format to do so. 
2. My only c~ntact with anyone named in connection with the 
Watergate and related matters was through Mr. Jack Bauman a former 
Agency employee now retired and living in "\Vinterhaven, Florida. In 
December 1971 lvlr. Bauman called me from Florida and advised that he 
wanted to get in touch with Howard HLmt. He said that he did not have HLmt's 
home phone nwnber and that it was probably unlisted but that since HLmt \\~as a: 
former employee, could I contact Hunt and ask him to give Mr. Bawnan a cJ.11. 
I had only met Hunt once about 10 years before but I agreed to relay the message. 
I called Howard Hunt at his home and told him that 1'.·Ir. Bauman did not have his 
home phone and requested he call l\Ir. Baum~m. l\1r. Hunt: thanked me for 
relaying the message and sa~d that he would call Mr. Bauman. This seemed of 
little consequence to me in December 1971 but in July 1972 Iden 17 of r.he 
Office of Security cont.:ictcd me in regard to the FI3I investig::i.tion of the Watergate 
situation. At that time I informed Iden 17 'of the telephone call from 
Mr. Bawnan in December 1971. Attached is a copy of a i\Icmorandwn for the 
Record prepared by. Ide_? 1 ~ las a result of our conversation. 
. 3. In the swnmer of 1972 I took my fanilly to Disney World in Florida 
and took that occasion to drop in to see Jack Bauman. Mr. Bauman told me in 
a private conversation that he had been interviewed three or four times by the 
FBI in connection with the Watergate affair and he related to me his contact 
\
Jf:,1,;J1••"" ; \fl(''• 
•• ,,, ••••. .. .'':. • . J. • - t. 
-NW 38296 Docld:32989624 61 
