13-00000 
' \ 
PAGE 17 
Federal News Service, JUNE 4, 1997 
The legislation that created the Assassination Review Board broke new ground by 
establishing the principle that there should be a presumption of public access 
to government information. That legislation was necessary because 
administration after administration had failed to release documents. That 
should not be. The Assassination Review Board has released millions of pages 
that could have otherwise remained locked in government file drawers. We are 
here today to extend the authorization of this board because the process of 
making government information public has been more complex and time-consuming 
than anticipated. I am not criticizing the work of the board or the dedication 
of its members. I am, however, critical of the fact that we are still fighting 
with our government to allow public access to government documents. 
Congress has passed laws and resolutions reiterating the principles of public 
access that were laid down when this country was founded. Administration after 
administration has worked to thwart that access. I applaud President Clinton 
for his efforts to declassify xdocuments, but we need to do much more. 
I hope that every employee at the Office of Management and Budget, and every 
agency in the government will pay attention to what this board has accomplished. 
It is the refusal to allow public access that breeds suspicion of the 
government. It is the thwarting of public access that causes the public to 
mistrust government officials. If we are to tum the tide of mistrust and 
suspicion, it will be done by opening the doors of access. Today is one step in 
that process, but there is much more work to be done. 
Thank you. 
REP. HASTERT: Are there any other members wishing to .make an opening statement? 
If not, our first witness this morning is fellow Congressman Lou Stokes, who 
served as the chairman of the House Select Committee on Assassinations from 1976 
to 1979, and is a cosponsor of this important bill. 
And, Mr. Stokes, we want to say welcome, and thank you for your fine work in 
this area. And please proceed with your opening statement. 
REP. LOUIS STOKES (D-OH): Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Barrett, Mr. 
Turner, Mr. LaTourette. 
Mr. Chairman, I'd like to submit my written testimony for the record, and if I 
may, I'd like to just summarize my testimony. • 
REP. HASTERT: Without objection. 
REP. STOKES: Thank you. 
It seems, Mr. Chairman, it was not as long as it is, but actually it's been 20 
years; it was in 1977 when I was appointed as chairman of the House Select 
Committee on Assassinations. We were authorized at that time and directed to 
complete an investigation surrounding the assassination and the death of 
President John F. Kennedy. We completed, as you've already stated, our 
