13-00000 
,, .. ,. nirtt, fraud, sabotage, EDP equipment mal-
d human errors are considered the most , • .,. ''"••• an 
t ....... dl1t9f'rl, 
Ga•llff terminals connected to central processors 
fr• ,_o,e points are more exposed to violations 
• .., •••t••• The Increasing populari~y of time­
,,., 199 111,ems among large corporations and ser­
••c• ~ur~aus has given rise to even more potential 
,..c.rllJ breaches. Data transmitted ?Ver a c?m-
.. ,,,,,1on line could be subject to wire tapping and 
• ,~, oC other hazards such as piggyback.entry, 
_...,.~, the Intruder intercepts and compromises 
•-■ &cation between a terminal and the processor 
■'Ill•• lrgltlmate user is inactive but still hold­
•••''" line open. The intruder can even cancel 
••• •••r•• sign-off signal and continue operating 
11 ••• aal!lf', A knowledgeable person could enter 
,,~ changes from a terminal and play havoc with 
,-. -.,itt'III, 
Nead for Protection 
~ to the increasing popularity of computing 
••rYICf"S, the issue of control and security pro-
1re1lon has become more important. It is evident 
1h1 1 lmc-shari ng systems present few· obstacles to 
•••uthorlzed parties. The security problem has been 
-.sr ~uch more critical by the growing number of 
..,.~Pl" trained in computers and by the fading of the 
,~•••er mystique, In addition, communication by 
..,,,, oC time-sharing systems has no more protection 
•••• telephone conversations or Morse-coded methods, 
ti ■<• the technological skills necessary to inter­
,,., c0111puterized data are widespread. More and 
.. ,. coeipanies are appointing security monitors from 
•••Ir t:111' staffs to centralize security matters. 
fra4r organizations such as the American Management 
&,ioclatlon and the Bank Administration Institute, 
c.,..,,11rr firms, and research firms such as Advance­
••• Management Research, Inc. find their seminars 
.. coeputer security overcrowded by data processing 
-.aaagrrs and security officers from business and 
tnernment, 
Target of Attacks 
Coeputers have become an important source of in­
f•raetlon and, as a result, the target of many at­
••~l•. Some of the general information targets for 
I...Sustrlal espionage are sales and service informa­
tloa. market analysis strategies, bid prices, cor­
porate finance, stockholder information, legal ne­
t 0 •1atlons, planned policy changes, expansion plans, 
product drvelopments, personnel changes, payroll 
data, v•neral administrative matters; and the list 
'"Id be expanded even more, 
Threats 
The case ot an 18 year-old Cincinnati youth who 
atrd long distance telephone to tap the lines of a 11•-sharlng system firm in Louisville, Kentucky, 
'" •••ncted data from its ledgers as well as rec-d • ' •r I o. Its customers, is representative of the type 
•I risk 10 which computer installations are expo~ed. 
Accldrnts can have serious consequences such as 1'• lecldent in which income tax return records for 1--.,q •ere erased by energy emitted from the radar of 
• ~•rby airport in Austin, Texas. 
Safeguards 
la 11 Important to consider that too much control 
•...S too 111ny security safeguards can become bother­
,_. •nd costly, The measures to protect data from 
::•••• 0rlzed access vary from one system to another. 
,.!0 ~dlng to _Richard F, Cro!s, Security Office.for 
'Ink or Ne~ York. 11Pr.11r11v ,;v,;tpm,; .:hn11J1I ,n-
elude each of the following segments: physical se­
curity; personnel security; procedural security; 
audit control; insurance; and any needed interfacing. 
The quality and level of protection required de­
pends on the sensitivity of the data handled, Never­
theless, control and security in a time-sharing en­
vironment should encompass the whole system, since 
it is well known that even the strongest control 
measures can be violated at the weakest point. These 
measures should be taken in the central processing 
unit, software, personnel, communication lines, the 
terminal, and its users. 
Methods and Provisions -
Central Processing Unit 
The central processor is threatened mostly by 
sabotage, fire, water, theft, EDP equipment mal­
functions, human accidental errors and environmen­
tal problems, 
The computer center of any company is the heart 
of the organization, and protection of the equip­
ment against these threats can be provided by a 
carefully planned computer room. Luis Scoma, Presi­
dent of Data Processing Security,· Inc., recommends 
that the computer center be located out of the main 
traffic areas. It must be fireproof, dustfree, and 
waterproof and provided with temperature and humid­
ity control and carbon dioxide fire extinguishers . 
Water lines should not run through the computer 
room. A separate, fireproof storage area should be 
provided for data files, documentation, and oper­
ating supplies. It should also have alarm devices 
sensitive to magnetism, humidity, heat, pressure, 
dust, theft, power blackout, etc. There should be 
strong access control including armed guards, 
fenced areas, TV ~onitors, personnel identification 
(visual, voice print, fingerprint, badge, passwords, 
etc.), well-performed maintenance service, and a 
number of extra provisions for protection. 
Data Processing Security, Inc. has developed,.for 
high security necessities, an electronically oper­
ated double door entry system for access control in­
to -the computer room, When a person enters the buf­
fer zone, the door locks behind him while he is sub­
jected to electronic search. If something is de­
tected, the system freezes and automatically alerts 
the security guard. The second door can be opened 
only with a special badge key, 
A carbon dioxide (CO2) fire extinguishing system, 
such as the one installed at the Chase Manhattan 
Bank's New York City headquarters, has proved use­
ful. Engineered by Walter Kidde & Co., Inc., this 
system uses a battery of remotely located cylinders 
containing the liquid gas. When activated by smoke 
detectors, the gas discharges and builds up an in­
ert atmosphere in the immediately surrounding area, 
extinguishing the fire without damaging equipment or 
data files. Employees can go back to work within 
five minutes after the fire has been put out and the 
ventilation systems restarted, 
Another fire-fighting system which has been de­
veloped by the Ansul Company uses Halon extinguish­
ing agents which are discharged in the form oi a 
colorless, odorless, and non-toxic gas. 'Since Halon 
agents do not work by diluting oxygen, they are 
well-suited for areas-where humans are present,_ 
The Guaranty Bank and Trust Co. of Worcester, 
Mass,, has adopted another approach to fire-fighting, 
a system installed by Security Control Systems which 
detects fire, smoke and excessive temperatures and 
humiditv fluctuations and causes a monii~iinQ and 
