BLACK Pl\N'IlIEn: PARTY (BPP' . 
:AJ.so known as 1· 
,,-J uck Panther. Party for Se .. r Defense 
According to the offiei•al ·newspaper of the BPP, the BPP 
w<1s started during D2cember, 1966, in Oakland, California, to 
organize black people so th8y can take control of the life, 
politics, c1nd the destiny of the black coITL'nunity. It was . 
organized by BOBI3Y G. SEALE, BPP Chairman, and HUEY P. tmWTON, 
Minister of Defense, BPP. 
The official newspaper, called II The Black Panth'.=r," 
/ 
reg-ularly states that the BPP advocates the use of guns and 
guerrilla tactics in its revolutionary program to end oppression. 
of the black.people. Residents of the black community are 
urged to arm themselves against the police who are consistently. 
referred to as 11pigs 11 who should be killed. 
The newspaper, in its.issue· of September 7, 1968, had an 
article by the then Minister of Education, GEORGE t-1UR!"1AY. 
This article ended with the following: 
"Black men. Black people, colored persons of J: . .merica, 
revolt everywhere! A.rm yourselves. The only culture 
worth keeping -is revolutionary culture. change. 
Freedom everywhere. Dynamite! Black power. Use 
the guri. Kill the pigs everyt·rhere. 11 
The BPP newspaper, issue of October 5, 1968, had c.'1 
article introduced with the following statement: 11We will 
not dissent from A.rner.ican government. We will over.throw it. 11 
DAVID HILLIARD, Chief of Staff, BPP, in a speech at the 
San Francisco PoJ.o Field on November 15, 1969, said ''We will 
kill Richard Nixon." 
DAVID HILLIARD, in the "New York Times-, II issue· of 
December 13, 1969, was quoted as follows: 11We advocate the 
very direct: overthrow of the government by way of force 
and violence." 
In the issue of ~.pril 25, 1970,. the BPP newspaper h2.d • 
an article by Minister of Culture E!·-IORY DOUGL.ZiS as follows: 
"The only way to make this racist US government ad:nini.ster 
justice to the people it is oppressing, is ... by taki:1g 
up arms against this govetnment, killing thr~ officidls, 
until the reactionary forces ... are deaa and those that • 
are left turn their weapons on thGir superiors, th,=;reby 
passing revolutionary judgement against the number one 
enemy of all mankind, the racist US government.," 
~1e BPP Headquarters is located at 1046 Peralta Street, 
Oakland, Culiforn.ia. Branches of the BPP, and Cormni ttees to 
Combat Fascism, under control of the BPP, hav:e been esta:Oli!:hed 
in various locations in the USA. : ' 
APPENDIX 
