THE WASHINGTON POST 
September 12, 1976 
I/tun F,ye . . 
e]FK:Ass sination: Curidsityr:ifl:. 
• ' : ·. ·._ : ...... ; •. ' ·-·•, _'· ·- ,:: • • •• • •. ,. :_'.:;' ,•. I .- : l • •• l • ·-. 
. ·• . ' 
An inquisitive American learns many things on a 
vi.sit fo Cuba. One of the most surprising is that high 
omcials in Havana seem genuinely hopeful that the 
investigation of the Kennedy assassination will be re­
opened. They are convinced thatthere was. a Cuban 
fattor in the murder. • • • 
·Conversations with senior officials of the Cuban . 
·government, including Deputy Prime Minister Carlo.c; 
Rafael Rodriguez, make clear that they have followed 
closely the disclosures by the Senate Intelligen~e 
Committee casting doubt upon the Warren Comnus-• 
sion j.nvestigation. Toe Cubans are well aware that the 
doubts center on the failure of the CIA and the FBI to 
inform the Warren Commission of the several plots 
mounted by the CIA to kill Fidel Castro. Knowledge 
of these plots appears to have been withheld even 
from the FBI and CIA officials who were responsible 
for investigating the President's murder and for sup­
porting the work of the Warren Commission. As a re­
sult, there was no special effort to explore the possi­
ble involvement of either the Cuban government or. 
Cuban exiles in the assassination. Evidence developed 
by the Senate committee makes both hypotheses plau­
sible-and a new inquiry imperative.· • • • • • ·' • 
Toe situation is murkier and more perplexing than . 
ever. Toose(who are resistant to conspiracy theories·. 
and who have been prepared-i!ven, eager -to be­
lieve that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone can no 
longer rely on the Warren Comn1ission_ report as.an . 
~The writer is a senior/ell.ow of the Council tm FM-, 
· cign Relations~ i ··-,. , \;. •: • • • , •·· ,· 
adequate prop for their predilections. Toe commiB-, 
llion did not know that on Nov. 22, 1003, at about the 
very hour Oswald struck in Dallas, an agent of the ; 
Central Intelligence Agency was meeting with a rank­
ing Cuban official (code-named AMLASH and re-., 
cently Identified as Rolando Cubela) to plan the mur•:' 
der of Castro. Simultaneously, in Cuba, a French re- 1 
porter, Jean Daniel. was spending the day with Cas• 
tro, convexing to the Cuban leader views expressed•. 
by President lt~edy in a brief interview at the;: 
White House on Oct. :ii, persuading Castro that Ken• ; 
nedy.wanted to explore way:, to normalize relations'. 
, Tbus, at the moment the President was killed, U.S .. 
policy. toward Cuba appeared to be movmg not only·. 
on two tracks but in opposite directions, and move-; 
ment on either track cou,ld hav~ provoked violent re­
sponse by one or another Cuban faction. 
Perceptions inside the Cuban government re.• 
· sponded to both tendencies in U.S. policy. Tuer~ is 
good reason to suspect that the AMLASH operation 
involved a double agent, or at least a singularly inept 
mt 50955 Docld:32423630 Page 402 
one. Castro almost certainly knew of it. Toe CIA even-
. tually concluded that the AMLASH activity was "inse- • 
cure" and terminated it. Among other discoveries. 
within two days of the assassination it was known !but 
not to the Warren Commission) that AM.LASH had • 
. been in cont.act with Soviet personnel in Mexico City, ; 
"'here Oswald bad gone in September 1003 to visit· • 
hotb tl!e Cuban and Soviet consulates. WbetMr U:1e11a-' 
facts are significant or merely coincidental, one can• 
not tell. In retrospect, Cuban authorities note with 
some relief that Oswald w~ denied permission to visit 
Cuba, implying that, had his request been granted; 
• the finger of suspicion would surely have. pointed .at. Havana; ,: : · · • • ' • • 
Perhaps more suggestive 0
1
f a direct leak from AM~ 
.. LASH to Castro was the sequence of events on Sept. 7, 
1003, when the CIA re-established contact with the Cu­
ban conspirator for the first time since the precedll)'g 
• year. Late that evening, Prime Minister Castro called 
in Associated.Press reporter Daniel Harker for an un-' 
expected intervitw. Only three Western reporters-. 
were based in Havana at the time and their contact 
with Castro wu quite limited. Evidently, the Cuban 
leader had a message he wished to get on the record 
• through Harker. He charged that the United States 
. was aiding terrorist plots in Cuba and .warned U.S .. 
• leaders that "if they are aiding terrorist plans to elimi• 
. nate.Cuban Iea4ers, they themselves will not be safe." 
Thill threat of reprisals seems less inflammatory 
• and more understandable now that we know what 
' Castro knew at the time, namely, that the United 
States wu in fact stepping up 'its covert operations 
against Cuba during the summer and fall of 1003. Yet • 
.· it seems an exception to the main lines of Cuban pol• , 
: icy u it was then evolving. • • . • • 
; For months afer the missile crisis of 1962, Castro • 
1 had been displeased with the Soviet:., and there are 
\ signs that he was interested in an opening to Wash-
• ington. 'On Sept. 5, the. Cuballll quietly proposed. talks 
\with the Americans at the United Nations, and Ken•; i 
~edy soon responded with interesL Also; in early Sep- :, 
• tember • the Time magazine bureau chief in .Buenos .• 
Aires, Gavin Scott, travelling on a Canadian passport, 
spent two weeks in Cuba. Although key U.S. officials 
have no recollection of conswting with Scott on that . 
occasion, the Cubans recall his . questions and com- . • 
ments as hinting of American interest in a-possibi~ ac. • 
commodation, much as they wer~later _to interpret . 
the discussions between Jean Daniel and Castro. • ::;, 
Then and now the Cubans' attitude toward Ken- '. 
nedy has been a compound of political antipathy and,; _ 
personal admiration. While critical of Kennedy's role •, 
in various counter-revolutionary efforts, Castro and ·, 
his associates voice a warm, almost affectionate re­
gard for the President's courage and realism. They 
