13-00000 
.. NPV 07 '97 10:31AM 
31 October l.997 
Reciu••t for Mc:li.t~onal i91.JD.d• tor-the an Asaaadination 
Records Review Project, through 31 September 1998. 
Reference: Ltr. to Executive Director form J. Jeremy Gunn, 
Executive Director, Assassination Records Review Board 
(ARRB), copy attacned. 
Background. 
1. The .ARRB will go • out of business on -31 September 
1998. Before that date, it has a statutory ob1igation to 
complete its review of all records held by the U.S. 
Government which relate to the assassination of Presiden~• 
Kennedy, determh_ie those which.are relevant to-the 
assassination story.and ensure that the same are transferred· 
to the National Archive~.• As the .board begins _its fina1 
year, it has become increasingly concerned about the pace of 
the review and transfer process. Referent letter is the 
latest of a number of exchanges dealing with that concern. 
2. CSI/HRG has carefully reviewed its current position 
with respect to its ability to·meet the deadlines imposed 
and has concluded that it cannot fully do so without 
additional resources, at least through 30 September 19~re. 
This conc1usion is based in large measure on three changed 
circumstances: 
A. The ARRB ha"JI recent1y exercised its statutory 
authority and designated additional CIA records to be within 
the JFK collection (to date approximately twenty cubic feet 
or 40,000 pages) • • Additional reco:t::ds may be identified as , 
the ARRB staff continues its review of Agency files. 
B. over-the past three months we have received an 
increase in the number of •Assassination Records• referred 
from third a~encies which include both Agency documents he1d 
by another agency or third agency documents which must be 
reviewed because they contain CIA information; and 
c. The ARRB itself has established a deadline which was 
no~ anticipated. All agencies had unders.tood that the 
review process1and ARRB action would have to be completed by 
_30 September. but it was widely assumed that final 
·processing and transfer of the documents to the-National 
Archives could occur after that date. However, the Board has 
now mandated that all relevant records which are not 
duplicates must be. transferred to custody of the National 
Archives before it goes out of business. 
P.2 
