13-00000 
24 
statement of some employee. or something. He was designated by the present _Direc­
tor to come' here and present th~. story because' he was· sup~ to be thti most familiar with it since he had reviewed it for the CIA. • .·•. • '. ••. · • •• • · • • ' · • 
, :: • He.:.n:a~ in:s~ce. Mr. Nosenko was taken into~~y in:'this c;ouq.try by 
the .CIA after defection or after-alleged defection, held in a 89-Called safe· ho~ cm a . 
die.t of tea and porridge twice a da1, was allowed.no reading material. The guards 
were instructed neither to talk to him or smile to him. I:Ie was subjected to 48.haurs 
: at. a .crack interrogation. This being while they built a separate facility l!omewllere 
' .else in the country; namely, a device described by him as a bank ·vaul~ and_ fhen 
built a house around the bank _ vault to put this man in and then kept him tliere • 
under the equivalent of some 3 years with that kind of thing, 1,277 days to be 
specific, at which point they finally gave up and gave him some· emolument and put 
him on their payroll and let him go: • · · • •. ., • • • •• 
. And .. then they gave as their-I questioned on the authority to do a thing like 
U)at. Did they have any kind of process, and they said other than the fact that Mr . 
. . · IJelms had conferred with you and gotten • your OK; that this woulit ·be legal. 
> And I just-found it awfully difficult to believe that. And that is why~iind I .don't 
imagine. it would be the kind of thing that you would be asked to OK enough that 
you woul~ not rather clearly remember the incident if it had occurred. • •. -· .. 
• Mr.· Ki'l'ZBNBACH. If the facts· that you have just set forth to me, Congressman, 
had ever been made· known to me, l would recollect it; I am certain;- and I would 
hope to goodness I would not have given thelegal advice that is claimed. • • • • 
• Mr, SAYWBR.lt makes me feel better about it. Thank you. 
That is all I have, Mr. Chairman. • . 
. . Having heard Mr. Katzenbach's testimony of yesterday, can you 
.-reconcile his testimony to this. committee with your statement just 
read tci this committee? . • 
• .. Mr. :HELMS. I can only say, Mr; Stokes, tha_t it is very hard to 
. reconcile: I thi_nk' the basic point at issue here is really whether the 
meeting with him took place at alL What happened after the 
meeting is something he was not responsible,for as. far as I am 
aware. 
• Let me read to you the memorandum for the record which Mr. 
Lawrence R. Houston, the General Counsel. of CIA-, wrote on April 
3, 1964. I have a copy in front of me. It is headed Memorandum for 
the Record and the subject is the Nosenko case.· 
It reads: 
Mr. Helms, Mr. Murphy, and I met with Mr. Nicholas deB. Katz.enbach, J. Walter 
Yeagley, William E. Foley, and Harold F. Ries, on April 2, 1964. Mr. Helms outlined 
the problems foreseeable in our future relations with Nosenko and asked the opin• 
ion of the Justice representatives on what we-could do to conirol the situation. I 
pointed out that his technical status is one of exclusion and parole-or more 
technically, deferment arid parole. 
Paragraph 2: 
. After some discussion, Mr. Foley stated it was his opinion that Agency representa­
tives could take any actio11-necessary to carry out the terms of the paro_le. Mr. 
Katz.enbach asked Mr. Foley to check this and let me know and Mr. Foley later 
confirmed this position by teleprione. • . 
I in turn, after the meeting, reviewed the parole agreement and provided .an 
interpretation thereof for Director of Security, a copy of which is attached hereto. 
Also, I informed Mr. Foley of this interpretation. Signed, Lawrence R. Houston, 
General Counsel. • 
The.attachment is a memorandum also dated April 3, 1964. It is 
signed by Lawrence R. Houston, General Counsel. It is a memoran­
dum for the director of security. That would be the officer who was 
the director of the security office of the Central Intelligence 
Agency. The subject is Parole status of defectors: 
On 2 April 1964, we had a discussion with the Department of Justice on the status 
of aliens whose inspection by INS-
