13-00000 SECRET 
SUBJECT: (U) Identity of Human Sources 
employees of the CIA, and not assets or contacts, it 
indicates Congress' intent from early on to protect those 
working covertly for the U.S. Government. ·-
9. (U) In 1980, Congress passed the Classified 
Information Procedures.Act (CIPA) which sets .out pretrial, 
trial, and appellate procedures for criminal cases involving 
or potentially involving classified information. Working 
with the Department of Justice and the courts, CIA has 
successfully protected intelligence sources from.public 
release even in criminal trials where there are heightened 
(i.e., constitutional) considerations favoring disclosure to 
the defendant of all government information relevant to the 
defense. CIPA allows for in camera ex parte hearings in 
which the judge can rule on questions of admissibility and 
relevancy of classified information, including the identity 
of human·sources who may have information pertaining to the 
defense, before it is introduced either to the defendant or 
defense counsel, or in open court. In some cases involving 
CIA, the judge has ordered that CIA information be t",Urned 
over to the defense, but only in some unclassified form such 
as in a summary. In other cases, judges have reviewed the 
classified information and ruled that the harm to national 
security outweighs the defendant's legal rights to the 
information. In still other cases, the defense was never 
notified that CIA even had information bearing on the case 
as the judge ruled that the mere fact that CIA possessed 
this information was classified and outweighed any rights 
the defendant had .. Moreover, under CIPA, the Attorney 
General has the authority to drop a prosecution in those 
cases where the risk to national security is too great. 
10 (U) In 1982, Congress acted to protect human 
intelligence sources by passing the Intelligence Identities 
Protection Act of 1982, 50 U.S.C. §421 which criminalizes 
the revelation of a source's identity. This Act subjects 
anyone who reveals information that identifies a covert 
agent to prosecution with up to 10 years in prison and 
$50,000 in fines. A covert agent includes: (a) a U.S. 
citizen whose intelligence relationship _with the U.S. 
Government is classified and is acting abroad as an-agent, 
informant or source of operational assistance to an 
intelligence agency; and (b) an individual, other than a 
U.S. citizen whose past or present intelligence relationship 
to the U.S. is classified information and who.is a present -
or former-agent·or·informant of, or is of operational 
assistance to, an intelligence agency. 
4 
SECRET 
