• 
.. 
13. Extremist Informant - Development of sources to provide 
intelligence and evidentiary information concerning ei~remist 
individuals and organizations,. 
14. Ghc-t.t.o Informant - D(lvalopm'2nt of i:nclividunls living or working 
in Ghotto nroao who can furnish informo:tion with particular 
omph~sis on situations which mey create civil unrest. 
15. Intensification of Invcstiga-tion ·of tioatherrn.an nnd Other 
Simi1ar Terrorist Grouns - Use of full resources of FBI and 
use of innovative ~..et.hods to achieve a more oomprchcnsive 
coverage. of such groups. 
16. Koy Activist - :rnvi.:lotigation of individuo.lo -uho ,·1cro c::trcmo1y 
active rn1d vocal in ·i:.b.ci:r stn:tomcntn denouncing 1:hc u .s. 
and calling for civil disobedience and other fonra of 
unlawful and uisruptive acts. 
17. ~oy Extreroist - Provided in.tansified coverage of solected 
extremists who were ltnown to ha a.cti vo and who hac1 
previously evidenced the potential for fomenting violence 
or revolutionary a.ctivitica.. • 
lS~ Location of Non-Fugitive Weatherman Homboro - Intensified 
efforts to locate non-fugitive Weatherman members. 
19. New Left Bxtromi~t - False Identity~ Attempt to provide 
effective dissemination of voluminous data concerning 
fa.lso identities used by Weatherman personnel mid other 
!11etc1 Lof·t m:tromists. 
20.. Hev1 Loft r1ovom2nt - Finiltlccs - Periodic informa.tion r:rtauo 
available to the USDJ and the White House regarding income 
sou:t'ce of various rcvolu·tionury groups. 
21. Mew Loft I!ove.i.""!tent ·- Publications - Coverage of Pt1.blicationo being 
circulated by N~l,, L~ft i,ove:ment .. 
22.. l?o'c.ent.inl :for Racial Violence - survey of 1000.lities having 
potential for racinl violence based on current social conditions. 
23. Potential for Violence and Civi1 unreot - Per~odic assessment 
of potential for vio1enoe and civi1 unrest throughout the 
u.s. with emphasis on sit.uo:t_ions involving racial factozis .. 
24,. Prisacts - Extremist, revolutionary, terrorist,_ and 
subversive activities in penal institutions. 
- 2 -
