CONFIDENTIAL 
(When Fill•rJ In) 
Date_...c$'--'-Oc"-'t__,::;;l9..,.S6:;.;;.... ____ _ 
1. This 1s to notify you that the United States Government, as 
represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, has accepted your em­
ployment effective 8 Oat.ober 1,9S6. 
Position: Al'N Ope Ottioe 
Base Salary: t6390.00 PC" amma 
2. You wili be entitled to receive annual and sick leave, retire­
ment coverage and bltch other employee benefits as may be provided by 
Agency regulations or applicable Federal lave and regulations. 
3. As a condition of your employment by the Central Intelligence 
Agency, you are subject to assignment to tours of duty at posts outside 
the continental United States. Each time you are so assigned, tbe dura­
tion of the tour of duty will be prescribed in advance and will normally 
consist of a period of 24 months. You will be required to serve the 
prescribed period of the overseas tour of duty from the date of arrival 
at your overseas post of duty unles~ this tour is sooner terminated by 
the Government for its convenience or it is terminated for circumstances 
that are considered by the Agency to be beyond your control. 
4. If you terminate yov:r assignment at an overseas post of duty 
for reasons within your control in less than 12 months from the date of 
arrival at the overseas post of duty, it is understood and agreed that 
you will be liable for reimbursing CIA for all travel expenses, includ­
ing storage and per diem, incurred by the Government in the transporta­
tion of yourself, your dependents, householc effects and automobile to 
your ~verseas post of duty, and you will pay all return travel and 
transportation expenses to the United States. 
5. It is further understood and agreed that if you terminate your 
overseas assignment for reasons within your control subsequent to the 
tvelfth month but prior to the completion of your prescribed tour of 
duty, you will pay all return expenses for the travel and transportation 
of yourself, your dependents, household effects and automobile to the 
United St.ates. 
6. If you wish to return to the United States for personal reasons 
during your overseas tour of duty, all travel and transportation costs 
incident to s1.Lch return will be borne by you, with no expense to the 
Government. 
