107L 
[ 
- • S~CTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANTS AND CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES. 
a. Receipts should be of such a nature that they will be self-sufficient 
so that, if it becomes necessary to introduce receipts in evidence, 
they will not relate to other documents or files. 
b. Rec~ipts should clearly show: 
!
ll Date on which payment was made 
2· Period for which made when informant is paid on period basis 
3 Total amount paid broken down into separate amounts for services 
o~ expenses where pertinent 
{4) Name of Agent making payment 
(5) Signature of person receiving money 
c. Receipts are not to be witnessed by another Agent. 
d. If necessary to make corrections on receipts, they must be initialed 
by informant and not by Agent. 
e. When transmitting receipts and itemized statements of expenses to 
Bureau, staple them directly to blue slip, leaving margin of one 
to one and one-half inches at top to avoid contact with Acco fastener 
punch. Place staples so that date or other data appearing on 
receipt will not be mutilated and all information. on receipt can be 
easily read without detaching it from blue slip. 
60 Income tax returns 
ao [Advise informants who receive compensation for their services to 
the Bureau that such compensation must be reported as :i,ncome when 
filing a Federal income tax form, and, where appropriate, state and 
local tax forms. Informants must be periodically advised of the 
above ahd complete details of any reported problem an informant 
has encountered with the taxing authorities are to be expeditiously 
furnished the Bureauo] 
b. Bureau income should be set forth on Federal income tax return, form 
1040, as income received from other sources for personal services 
rendered through a private enterprise or similar general term applicable 
to informant's position and station in life. 
c. If informant is self-employed and files schedule C as self-employed 
individual, it may be possible to include his Bureau income with his 
self-employed income from other sources without revealing connection 
with Bureau. 
d. If informant cannot report payments received from Bureau for services 
without -jeopardizing •his security as informant, such payments will be 
subject to 20 per cent withholding tax. There are four categories of 
circumstances in which taxes will not be withheld. Taxes are not 
to be withheld from payments made (1) to other than security in-­
formants and sources, {2) for reimbursement of expenses, (3) under 
SAC-authority, or (4) to informants who have been able to report 
Bureau income on their Federal tax returns without jeopardizing their 
security or without challenge from Internal Revenue Service. Each 
office has detailed instructions and exhibits concerning procedure to 
be followed in handling and control of money withheld. 
·e. When informant or former informant is initially considered as potential 
witness in Bureau case, determine whether he paid Federal and state 
taxes on in.com€! ·he received from Bureau for his services. If such 
taxes have not been paid, obtain all pertinent details and promptly 
submit recommendations for handling situation. 
7. St;i.pulation re payments made to witnesses 
a. In trials in which informants, former informants, or other persons 
who were paid sums of money are prospective witnesses, Bureau must 
furnish Department set of photostats of original receipts signed 
by pros pe cti ve witnesses. Original receipts and set of photos ta ts 
will be transmitted to field office in wh6se territory trial will 
take place. Office handling prosecution must de_termine from Govern­
ment attorney which individuals are to be used as witnesses 0 There­
after offtce should furnish and/or cause other appropriate offices 
to furnish to Bureau .following :i:nf ormation: 
16 
10-15-73 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1741 
) 
., 
. i 
l 
I 
\ 
I 1 
j 
l 
