13-00000 
.. 
.. 
Identification and Location of Additional Secret Service Records and 
Information. Time consuming and careful review of Secret Service activities by 
the Review Board produced a series of requests for additional records and " 
_information that, in tum, led to the identification of additional relevant 
assassination records. For example, in response to the Review Board's first eight 
requests for additional information, the Secret Service has submitted more than 
1,500 pages of material. 
Identification and Location of Additional Military Records and Information. The 
Department of Defense (including its many components and the military 
services) (collectively "DOD"), identified few assassination records on its own 
initiative. DOD has nevertheless been cooperative with the efforts of the Review 
Board to locate assassination records. When such records have been located, 
DOD has been willing to release the records with few redactions. 
l -
Additional work would be required in(our,last year to ~ure that all". ": yt;;_~ i:"u 1:'n~T'..rr:: ~-'' ::-. -:-,: • 
assassinaµon records in the military:ard\i'(t.eshave been made a part of the1FJC::-i TT.",:; 6'"'" ; --~: • 
Collection. Fortunately, the diligent efforts of the ARRB staff have set the stage 
for accomplishing this task. 
V. Release of Private and Local· Records 
In addition to the release of records in the Federal Government's vast files, and 
consistent with the Board's mandate to make the historical record of the assassination as 
complete as possible, we have been aggressive in identifying and acquiring significant 
assassination-related records in the possession of private citizens and l(?Cctl • • 
governments, including: • 
.. 
The original personal pap~ of Warren Commission-chief Counsel J. Lee Rankin 
that give further insight into the operations of the Commission; 
Copies of the official records of New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison's 
investigation of the assassination; 
The original papers of New Orleans attorney Edward Wegmann, from his work 
as a member of the legal team that successfully defended Clay Shaw in 1969 
against a charge of conspiracy to kill President Kennedy. 
Copies of records from the Metropolitan Crime Commission of New Orleans, 
including records on District Attorney Garrison's investigation and prosecution 
of Clay Shaw and records regarding New Orleans organized crime figures; 
5 
