ve'ry· welT'. pu~>;,._t".:, his five years of service there and his broad personal· 
·,. •· ·- . ~- •.. , ,.I ,.•.· 
confacts among the Chilean officers. Following a proposal by the Chief 
of Station, the CIA decided to enlist Colonel Wimert in collecting in­
t~lligence concerning the possibility of a coup and to use him as a 
channel to let the interested Chilean military know of U. S. support 
for a coup. Karamessines described this procedure for the Committee: 
We also needed contact with a wider segment of the military, 
the senior military which we had not maintained and did not 
have, but which we felt confident that our military represen­
tative in Chile had .... And we got the approval of the DIA to 
enlist the cooperation of Colonel Wimert in our effort to pro­
cure intelligence. 
(Karamessines testimony, August 6, 1975, p. 6) 
To obtain Wimert's services, CIA officials prepared a suggested mes-
sage for the Director of DIA to send to the Army Attache in Santiago 
through CIA communications channels. Because the DIA Director, General 
Donald V. Bennett, was in Europe on official business, the Deputy 
Director of Central Intelligence, General Cushman, invited DIA Deputy 
Director Lt. General Jammie M. Philpott to his office on September 28, 
1970.* During that meeting, General Cushman requested the assistance of 
the Army Attache, and General Philpott signed a letter which authorized 
transmission of a message directing the Army Attache: 
* 
... to work closely with the CAS chief, or in his absence, 
his deputy, in contacting and advising the principal mili­
tary figures who might play a decisive role in any move which 
might, eventually, deny the presidency to Allende. 
Do not, repeat not, advise the Ambassador or the Defense At­
tache of this message, or give them any indication of its 
portent. In the course of your routine activities, act in 
accordance with the Ambassador's instructions. Simultaneously, 
I wish--and now authorize you--to act in a concerted fashion 
with the CAS chief. 
General Bennett retur~ed to··.\h{\ U°.ite~ 
10, 1970. General Philpott ':!?s'.·Ac,t:1,ng 
\if. :.\•.' '.} 
t,•, 
\ 1 . 
\\ 
States ·o~ ~~e:1ve~ing 
D rrector in Bennett's 
of October 
absence. 
NW 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 455 
-
-
