·sECHET Betsy Palmer 
Review of Manolo Ray y Rivero Files . ..:. Volumes _ _!_: XVI:!_!_ 
April 24, 1978 
_Volume VIII - September 4, 1962 - December 27, 1962 
1. Telegram Inforna.tion Report ( circa Sept. 10) Unevaluated information. 
Ray in the U.S. 8-9 September. Intends forming new organization. Some of 
those participating with Ray in this effort are Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, 
Ramon Barquin and Justo Carrillo. Ray is of the opinion that nothing 
will be done about Cuba in the innnediate future as the President of the 
United States is fuli'illing "an e_xpedient of a political nature." However, 
there is an ally in the White House who has assured Ray that if he organizes 
a purely revolutionary group, he will b_e heard, 
2. Junta Revolucionaria Cubana 
Declaration of Principles outline the following areas: 
1. Cuban Reaffinnation - recognition of sovereignty of the pe~ple, through suffrag 
2. Human Rights - human 1'raternity and social solidarit-.r for all CUbans 
3. Social Justice - equality of opportunity for education, work, homes, etc. 
4. Economic Development - intense industrialization 
5. Agrarian Reform - CUban pesantry to own land he cultivates 
6. International Relations - break with Soviet bloc 
7. Restoration of I..egitimate Property - not that under public power 
8. Political Parties - Communist Party will be proscribed 
9. Political Prisoners - immediate release 
10. Elections - within 18-month period 
2. Dispatch to Chief, Task Force .,..,, from Chief of Station, JHWAVE 
Date obs-cured 
PJ.fl'HRILL-1 provided inf'orl!l.ation on Ray obtained from Silvia KOURI de 
Pend.as, a fellow student of Ray's at Institute de Segund.a Ensenanza #1 in 
Havana. Ray never know to have sympathy for Communist cause. However~ one 
of his good friends, Pedro Valdes Vivo, is active member of Communist cell 
and a brother of Raul Valdes Vivo, now sub-director of Corra-mmist paper 
"Noticias de Hoy." 
3. Cable to Priority San Juan, Info: Priority J1-QlJi:vE, Priority Mexico City 
From: Director (Rodriguez originator) dated 9 Oct 1962 
Admission visa not pnuched 00 forwa....--ding document will be in WAVZ hands 
10 October fori::ass ing to Ray. Lechuga is principal target in area of 
Ray trip. Stress desire keep Lechuga in place in preference to defection. 
4. Memorandum for the Record dated 8 October 1962 from Patrick I. Karnley 
Subject: Hotes on Manolo Ray 
In conversation with Luis Laboy, Laboy said Ray does not have any 
significant following among Cuban exiles -- says Ray is honest person 
conrpletel._y motivated by patriotism but lacks qualities of a politician. 
Says Ray is too blunt and even Cisneros is not happy with him these days. 
Puerto Rican Police are apparently canvassing Cuban exiles regarding Manolo 
Ray.C)1-In~~~-1 Report fiL54 dated 30 Sept 1962, he refere to fact that both he 
and Fermin Alvarez Silva were vi.sited by officer of PR Internal Security Force 
soliciting their opinions of Ray. 
SECRET 1/lsR 
