slogans and initials of y~t another group. Among groups 
named in testimony before the Senate Internal Security 
Subcommittee·are: Accion Cubana, or Cuban Action; Alpha 
66, a name adopted when victory in 1966 seemed possible; 
FLNC, standing for Frente de Liberacion Nncional de Cuba, 
which means Cuban National Liberation Front, and Prngma• 
tistas, which means what it sounds like-pragmatists. 
A group calling itself Zero issued a "death list" of people 
marked for killing and, according to officials, several persons 
on the list soon died violent deaths. 
Dade County's antiterrorist head, Lieutenant Lyons, says 
he has stopped trying to keep track of the groups and instead 
concentrates on trying to solve the crimes that they are 
suspected of having committed. I Ie has no shortage of 
business. Here is a sample of the violence attributed to 
terrorists in the last two years: 
• Since February, 1975, there have been at !east seven 
assassination attempts direct'ed against refugee leaders who 
were viewed as opponents of the terrorists' tactics. Three 
men were shot to death. One was killed by a bomb. Three 
other attempted killings failed, but a prominent radio broad­
caste( lost both legs below the knees when a bomb ripped his 
car apart. 
• On Dec. 3-4, 1975, bombs blasted the Miami office of the 
Federal I3ureau of Investigation, a Social Security office, a 
State unemployment office, two post offices, a bank, a State 
attorney's office and the ~tiami police-department headquar­
ters. A man accused of those bombings, and also the bombing 
of the Miami International Airport two months earlier, was 
acquitted recently in a federal court. He is to be tried again 
in a State court. 
• A number of bombs have been exploded in New York 
One blew out the window of the Venezuelan consulate on 
Fifth Avenue, across the ,street from St. Patrick's Cathedral. 
• On Feb. 12, 1976, a Soviet freighter, the Dzhordmw 
Bn1110, was sitting motionless 35 miles off Cuba's north coast 
while its tanks were being cleaned. Suddenly a small boat 
raced close to the freighter and raked it with heavy machine-
' gun fire. No one was injured. 
• On April 6, 1976, two Cuban fishing boats were attacked 
,md a fishe1 man was killed. 
• On Sept. 21, 1976, in Washington, D.C., a bomb ex­
ploded in a car and killed Orlan<lo Letelier, a former Chilean 
\mbassador to the U.S. under the Marxist regime of the late 
President Salvador Allende. Although the crime is officially 
msolved, there have been persistent reports that the bomb 
:as planted by Cuban terrorists as a "favor" to the secret 
·0lice of the present anti-Communist Government in Chile. 
NEW TERRORIST STRATEGY 
Leaders of the terrorist bands are hard to identify. nut one 
m has emerged as an apparent leader: Dr. Orlando Bosch, 
nediatrician. He was caught firing a bazooka at a Polish 
pin 11iami harbor in 1968 and was sentenced to 10 years 
1 :irison. 
\\ lr. Bosch was released on parole after four years, but he 
1 . ,rtedly returned to the movement. He is now under 
,t in Venezuela, charged along with three "~tber men •in 
,ection with the Cuban airliner bombing. D'r. Bosch is 
- ribed as -the-leader of~the g~oup calling itsel( .~ccion •• 
u1a. • .., :; ·-:--r - - ----..... ~ .. ~ · .. " --:--- .- -~ of • , ~. 
• June ofthis-=-yea:1/Dr. Bosch c'alled a small grQ.up orhis 
- v ·activirtftogether'.-"in the DofDinic-in Republic. "'They 
5harply. di'vided :on:P.olicy and strategy. • 
_.ie wanted_to av0id~the-risks;;:of further attacks iri the 
! Stati;s and to conce'ii:trate th'eir effortsaagainst C:istn,· 
.' this country.. Ofhers,,,held~ ouC for continuing their 
. ies b5th here and.ab{5a"d. -.. ,. • 
. .-a heated""i:irgument, ?s!'i'aky ,Tgreement was reached - - --- ~, -- .... 1 ~~-
-. JS & :ORLD R'€PCJRT.';~ 6, -~,;:76 ' - • • • _,,.,,,.. • p;3.ge 23 
···nocid: 32421~30 
lffl 50955 
Automobile bombing that killed a Cuban refugee in Miami is one 
of many unsolved crimes attributed to anti-Castro terrorists. 
to focus their efforts outside the U.S. To direct the activities, 
a new group was formed with the initials CORU, which stand 
for Coordinacion de Organizaciones Revolucionaires Unidas 
in Spanish or Co-ordinating Committee of United Revolu-
tionary Organizations in English. . 
American law-enforcement officials say that members of 
CORU have the backing of powerful forces, perhaps even 
the governments themselves, in some countries of Latin 
America. The terrorists are described as "at home" in I laiti, 
the Dominican Republic, Nicaragua and Chile. They are well 
armed for terroristic acts, as shown in the box on page 32. 
Since the June meeting, a new wave of terrorism has swept 
across the Caribbean and beyond. Bombs have damaged 
Cuban airline facilities in Barbados, Jamaica and Panama. 
Two Cuban officials were kidnaped in Argentina. 
On July 23, three men who had flown from Miami carrying 
three coffee cans filled with plastic explosive attempted to 
kidnap Cuban Consul Daniel Ferrer Fernandez in Merida, 
Mexico. He escaped, but a Cuban fisheries expert was killed. 
The most serious act of terrorism came on October 6, 
when a Cubana Airlines DC-8 exploded in llight shortly after 
taking off from Barbados. The plane fell into the sea, killing 
73 persons including members of the Cuban national fencing 
team. 
In messages to news media, both CORU and El Condor, a 
group unheard of previously, claimed responsibility for the 
crash of the plane. 
Dr. l3osch, who has traveled freely on documents appar­
ently provided by officials of Governments friendly to the 
anti-Castro movement, was picked up in Venezuela and 011 
November 2 was charged with homicide iii connection with 
the plane crash. Three other men are similarly charged. 
The arrests of Dr. Bosch and his cohorts, instead of 
reducing terrorist violence, may actually stimulate more 
violence. El Condor, in a message to the United Press 
International on November 19, said the four men held by the 
Venczuehtns are innocent and warned that, if ihev are 
convicted, planes of the Venezuelnn.Jnternatiomir:-\'i~,,:;ays 
will be attacked. On the same ::fay, CORU sent a message· 
saying it would join with the Honduran Anti-Communist· 
Alli,mce in ,att.1cks on three airlines that plar1. excursion_ 
11ights-to Havana. . --- • • • 
Rob.erto Carbal!o,;a militant leader. of veterans of the Bay • 
of ·Pigs 'invasion, denounced the threatened attacks . • :It aids • 
. Castro by making all Cuban exiles look like mad .bombers," 
Carballo said. 
. CRACKDOWN BY LAW OFFICERS 
.. Since last spring, there has been a sharp. reduction· in 
terroristic violence in the Miami area. That may be as much -·· 
due to a successful counterattack by law-enforcement agen­
cies as to the policy that was adopted by CORU last June. 
F.arly this year, an antiterrorist task force was ornan;,,,,,, •· 
.i 
\
""' • : . ~;;:,-;..T 
' , ~ 
' ' . ..--,..._ ~ 
-
