107I - K SECTIO?T 10·. ) SECURITY 
• 
\ 
INtORMAU'rS AN'D COHFL .hIAL 
• 
SOURCES 
( 
( 
[ 
( 
[ 
( 
2. Communications - use of symbols 
a.. After Bureau :i.s advised of the permanent symbol, in subsequent 
communications true name of informant shou·ld no·I; be se·I; forth; use 
symbol numbc:c. 
b. In all communications after the initial let·l;er, Bureau and field 
office file· numbers for informant must be se I; forth. • 
o. Iri communications between offices, the same procedure·is to be 
followed. 
d. Informants and sources entering another diviaion • • 
(1) Active informants and sources entering another division on 
temporary basis for Bureau business or for personal reasons 
should be referred to in initial letter to interested office 
by true name anc1 symbol number if' it is necessary f'or _the other 
division to know the identity of the informant. Office receiving 
such letter should make appropriate index cards and place same 
in "Informants and Sources in Other Divisiotis" index. Subsequent 
lettcrH between interested offices may then identify individual -
by symbol number only. • 
(2) Individuals who leave the division where they have been furnishint 
information and do not plan to return should be immediately 
discon·l;inued, their symbol number, if any, should be cance],led, 
and their true name should ~e used in all administrative 
corresponc1encc. 
(3) If an informant is transferred to another office and remains 
active, his identity must still be protected. 
e. [Deleted) • 
f. In cornmunicat:i.ons concerning a potent'ial security informant[when 
a symbol number is not assigned, )the name of the potential security 
informant and abbreviation "PSI" shall be used; e.~., ·".John Doe, 
PSI. II 
g. [ Deleted) 
h. [Deleted) 
i. [Deleted) 
j. In espionage and foreign nationality matters the caption of the 
communic?.tion should show in addition a character and the countr.y 
design~.tion {Le., IS - R for Russia or IS - PO for Poland, etc.). 
This facilitates routing the mail at the Bureau. 
J'. nrnE XING 
K. 
1. 
2. 
True names and aliases of all infor,:. ts, as well as the cover name 
assigned to them for informants I us.- i !l submitting· their statements, 
but not their permanent Bureau symb0:~. i'!Umbers, shall be indexed in 
the general office indices in the sam':.' manne:r> as any other name. 
These index cards should show the file number of the informant and 
such terms as "Informant" or "Potential Security Informant" shall not 
appear. 
INDICES 
1. Alphabetical name index and symbol_ number index .. ·-· 
a. Alphabetical name index . .. 
(1) In all offices all act.ive poten-!;ial security and S€cur,ity 
informant cards are to be kept by the SAC, ASAC, or security 
supervisor consistent with maximiun security and best admin­
istrative practice. This is to be known as the alphabetic!l 
name index .. 
(2) File these cards in alphabetical order and also include cards 
for security confidential sources. These cards should show 
whether the individual is a potential infornw .. td;, _an informa:it, 
or a confidential source furnishing information on security 
matters. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Page 1345 
( 
