' . 
• 
•• 
his contacts with numerous individuals in diplomatic 
circles. He was again told that all of this information 
was reduced to writing and I understood that it was 
disseminated to other government agencies, including 
the U.S. Mission to the UN and the S~ate Department. 
Wallach wanted to know how I knew this to be the case. 
I explained that FBI policy required dissemination of 
information to other government agencies and I felt certain 
that this policy was· followed in the case of memoranda 
prepared as a result of my contacts with Jaffee. 
Wallach asked if Jaffee was an informant and 
I told him that Jaffee might more properly be called a 
Source of Information. 
Wallach then wanted to know if I requested Jaffee 
to do anything in the course of contacts _with him. Wallach 
was told that Jaffee may have been asked to follow up on 
info.:tmation which he furnished or make contact with a specific 
individual but that this did not occur very often, if at all, 
since Jaffee was a free spirit, who usually did as he pleased. 
I then explained that during my contacts with Jaffee I received 
frequent calls from other FBI Agents who said that Jaffee was 
using my name in order to cross police lines or get information 
while covering a story of major importance,such as airplane 
hijacking. This in spite of repeated requests on my part 
that he cease doing this. 
Wallach asked if I knew whether Jaffee had ever 
been followed by FBI Agents. I pointed out that Jaffee had 
been followed by FBI Agents and, in fact, talked to Agents 
who were following him, as well as Agents going about their 
business. He often mentioned my name to these Agents. 
Wallach asked if I was aware that Jaffee did a 
telew.ision program on the FBI. I said that I was aware of 
this and in fact, at his request, arranged to have him visit 
Camp Smith with a camera crew to cover our firearms training 
program. 
Wallach was told that I could not remember when 
I last saw Jaffee, but that I last talked to him when he 
returned from Hong Kong. At this time Jaffee called my home 
from Washington, D. C. and told my daughter that he had to 
talk to me immediately about an urgent problem. When I 
- 3 -
NW 38316 Docld:32989653 Page 168 
