13-00000 
r~f~rw,TEXT-ASSASSINATIONS-1 
a0829 
13:50 05-15 
BC-TEXT-ASSASSINATIONS-lSTADD 
THE REUTER TRANSCRIPT REPORT -----------·-· ------- --------------
HOUSE GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS LEGISLATION AND NATIONAL 
SECURITY SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING 
Topic: H.J. Res. 454, Assassination Materials Disclosure Act 
of 1992 
Witness: CIA Director Robert Gates 
May 15, 1992 
(First-Add)._ 
***** 
xx x Mr. Chairman. 
" 
REP. JOHN CONYERS JR. (D-MI): Thank you very much, 
Mr. Gates. we appreciate your statement. And I only have a 
couple of observations. • 
_ Putting them altogether, I'm interested in how much 
material has been destroyed by CIA that we may never know about? 
Why-the Lee Oswald file was opened at the-CIA 14 months after 
his defection. Was Oswald in fact a Soviet spy? And was that ~ 
picture in his file that was thought to be him, was that an 
error? Or was there something involved in that that you can 
shed some light on? 
GATES: Well, at the risk of appearing appallin_g_l__y ·J· _ ... ignorant, Mr. Chairman, I don't know the answers to-any··of· tiiose A 
questions. But I will take them for the record and respond 
quickly to the committee. . -
REP. 'CONYERS : Well, thank you so much. 
We're here against the backgroun9 of history and the 
fact that this is the murder of the century. A president of the 
United States, sitting president. And I thought it was 
exemplary of the CIA--I never thought I'd be saying this this 
morning, either--to find out that you had permitted your 
representatives to discuss the subject.,matter with various think 
tanks around the city, ·one of which was included was the 
Institute for Policy studies, whose cofounder is Marcus Raskin. 
And I was told that there was a very candid exchange . 
about this subject matter which was the purpose of the meeting. 
Some dozen or more of your representatives were meeting with 
·them. 
And I think that that is a very healthy sign of the 
times. I never thought it would happen, so r never thought I'd 
say what I am saying today .. But one of the parts of that 
discussion was that Oliver Stone, the producer of the movie, has 
been parading around the country saying that you will not meet 
with him. ·, 
And as a conciliatory member of this Congress, could I 
facilitate -such an arrangement so that it would help relieve the 
confusions and the disturbances of a lot of people, since he 
5 
Q
I 
< .J 
