107G 
3. 
4. 
s. 
( 
~ • ~ 
SECTibN 107. S: .ITY I!iFORY..ANTS AND COHFIDE1TT1, i 1 SOURCES 
{6) After informant auttenticates his statement, .. n~aoting Agen~ 
should prepare a oaver sheet, form FD-306, whioh should be stapled 
to it and thereafter the statement should be handled as a 
written one in accordance with instructions set out in 2, a, 
(10}, and (11). 
(7) Oral information furnished by informant purely of lead value 
should be incorporated in an office memorandum by the Agent 
and should not be initialed by the informant or exhibited to 
him or treated as e7idence. 
Transmission of information 
a. Statements should be personally delivered to contacting Agent by 
informants whenever possible. Careful considerat~on should be 
given to full security of all such personal contacts. 
b. They should never be mailed to field office or resident agency. 
c. If they cannot be obtained personally by co~tacting Agent, obtain 
confide~tial post office boxes. for their receipt. . 
d. Confidential post office boxes should be obt,•, • ";d u11der fictitious 
names and not under n~.mes of per·sons who may list1:·:. in post office 
dire·ctory. 
e. Hore than one informant nay send st~tements t~ a specific post office 
box, but consideration should be gi ·1:1 to obb.ining post office boxes 
in different post office stations t :revent suspicion on part of 
post office employees. 
f. • ~1velope enclosing statement shoulc: • .•. ·:e return address of another 
·)1_1fidential post off-ice box obtair-· • .rnder a-fictitious name 'in th~ 
. ; .~me manner as d. ·:·::. ·-... ,-- =• •• .: 
g. 3tatements should be collected at post office boxes regularly, 
but time of pickup should be varied. Work out system of rotation 
whereby sa1;:r; A.gent or Agents will not appear· at same post office box 
for any ex~ ·ied period of time. 
h. When inf or-- • • !; receives information of vital and immediate interest 
to Bureau, ·-~ should furnish it as promptly as possible to contacting 
Agent or •. •fice by most appropriate means of com .. 'l!unication. Office 
sho1.1.ld -t· • -i any necessary action without delay. 
Handling of ·-ad information 
a. All leaJ ·~nformation obtained from informant must be run out to 
a logical conclusion. 
b. If there is only partial name of individual or meager descriptive 
data, and if there is sufficient data available to do so, file should 
be opened and assigned to effect an identification and to take any 
necessary action. 
c. If there is insufficient information to warrant opening case, 
a tickler card should be prepared to.follow with the informant and 
take o·!;her logical steps in an effort to obtain additional ide11-tifying 
dat.a concerning the indi,id·ual. Tickler cards should be restricted 
to information which v:ould warrant investigation if an identity is 
established, This will eliminate inconsequential items, but at the 
same time definite stens must be taken to run out affirmative informa­
tion. Ii no identificition is made after reasonable effort, prepare 
memoranuum for informant 1 s subfile. If an identification is made, 
a file should be opened and any necessary action t~.ken in ct:nneotion 
there;-;! th. 
Handling 4ocumentary material furnished by informants 
a. P::i.mphlets .'.l.!l<l similar d.ocu::1entary material furnished by informants 
should havfl placed thereon the informant 1 s code name. 
b. Informant should affix date he received the material. If informant 
cannot recall date o~ receipt, the date he furnished material should 
be affixed. 
c. No additional markings of any kind, such as initials, date received, 
permanent syml)ol nurnl)cr of informant, file numbers, indexing symbols, 
etc., should be placed on documenta'ry material by .agents or clerical 
personnel. 
12 
6-13-61 
" 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Page 1399 
i 
' .. • I 
i 
I 
I 
I 
,, 
~ 
} 
I 
•I ., 
·I 
:I 
:l 
11 
'I 
H !l 1: 
li ti 
;i 
II 
!' i ,; 
H .. q 
ti 
i! ;! 
q 
\1 
ti l• 
f' 
'.l 
i :I 
l 
I 
!i ,I 
:! 
: 
\ ! 
.'! 
l 
!I 
