107N 0 SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORM.ANTS[.AND CONFIDENTIAL 
-• 
SOURCES]. 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 9. 
• 
protect his security. Fellow members ·of the pertinent subversive 
organization may be aware of his unemployment stat11s and would expeot 
him to apply. Where a state requires notification of Bureau payments 
to informants that would necessitate disclosure of their identity, 
then Bureau payments should be discontinued during the period they 
receive unemployment compensation benefits. 
Handling money and property received by double agents , 
a. Double agents must turn over to the Bureau any money or property 
received from their principals in connection with the double agent 
intelligence operation. This should be made clear to the double 
agent at the inception of the operation (.consider obtaining a signed 
statement to this effect). Exceptions to this rule must be specifi­
cally approved ~y the Bureau. Entirely separate arrangements must 
be made for payments to double agents for services rendered to the 
Bureau. 
b. Any money or property received by a double agent from his principal 
represent.a. possible future evidence and the double agent should 
execute a statement describing the money received by tYPe of currency, 
denomination, series of issue, and serial number and appropriately 
a.esoribing any other property received. This st_atement should be 
r,igned by ·:the double agent Is code name or number. 
c. Money or property received from double agents should be retained as 
evidence in accordance with section 3, part II, Manual of Rules and 
Regul3:tions. . _ 
d. Bureau Agents receiving-such money or property from double agents 
should make independent records for ·retention for purposes of refresh­
ing recollection in the event testimony is later necessary.] 
0. SEMI.ANNUAL LETTER 
A semiannual letter should be submitted to the Bureau by each office as 
follows: . 
1 .. Li st. the symbol numbers of all security informants and confidential 
• sources being paid for services or expenses on a regular basis. If such 
• confidential source has no symbol number, ~ist his name. 
2 •. Also list the -symbol numbers of all unpaid security informants •. 
3. Set forth any cow.ments concerning the present status of the informant 
coverage of the office, together with information concerning what actions 
.- 2.re being taken to improve the security informant ooverage. 
4. .A.s a s·eparate section of the semiannual letter, list under 11Headquarters 
Cityn and each resident agency all sub-versive organizations broken down 
into eaoh division and unit thereof, suoh as clubs, committees, and·. 
chapters. 
Und.er each unit the approximate membership, together with the symbol 
numbe~s and positions of security informants affording coverage, should 
be set out. Where no informant coverage exists or where coverage is 
provided by informants or sources who are not members, such factors should 
be shovm relative to each unit. 
Semiannual letters may include any additional pertinent information re 
informant coverage that may be helpful in over-all eval u2.tion, such as 
informants in other divisions who are occasionally utilized and highly 
placed informants who furnish area-wide, national, or inte~national 
information. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1792 22 
,, 1 ?. F,() 
) 
) 
