to the Special Group that "the propose<] actions would not, 
of themselves, bring about the desired result in the near 
·future, lacking some clecisive stroke against Trujillo himself." 
(Special Group Minutes, 12/29/60) 
IV. January 12-, 1961 Special Group Approval of ''Limited 
Supplies of Small Arms and Other Material" 
• • On January 12, 1961, with all members present, the 
Special· Group met and, according to its Minutes·, took t'.1e 
following action with respect to the Dominican Republic: 
" Mr. Merchant explained the feeling of the Department 
6f State that limited suppli~s of small arms and other 
material should be made available for dissidents in­
side the Dominican Republic. Mr. Parrott said that we 
believe this can be managed securely by CIA, and that 
the plan would call for final transportation into the 
country being provided by the ·dissidents themselves.· 
The Group approved the project." (Special Group Minutes, 1/12/61) 
A. Memoranda Underlying the Special Group Action 
On January 12, 1961, Thomas Mann sent a memorandum to 
Under.Secretary Livingston Merchant. 'l'he memorandwn, sent 
through Joseph Scott, Merchant's Special Assistant, reported 
on the disillusionment of Dominican dissidents with the United 
States for its failure to furnish them with any tangible or 
concrete assistance. Further, it reported: 
Opposition clements have consistently asked us to supply 
them with'"hardware•'of various types. This has included 
quantities of conventional arms and also, rather persis­
tently, they have asked for some of the more exotic items 
·and devices which they associate with revolutationary 
effort. (Mann to Merchant memo of 1/12/61) 
* The members of the Special Group were at the time: Lfv:1ng_ston 
Merchant, Under Secretary of State for Politic§l Aff~irs; Gordon 
Gray, Advisor to the President for National Security Affairs; 
John N. Irwin, Deputy Secretary of Defense; and Allen Dulles, 
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
Hlf 50955 Docid.:32423525 Page 34 
