13-00000 
• TOP SECRET DINAR 
29 
foAs)DEVELOPMENTS - cont'd /' 
\:: 'elf O v 
Thes~. lfEtleg•tes, ·Penha Marinhojstated, "are wondering 
whether the'euban Government would be so stupid as to send 
to Venezuela arms with the inscription 'Cuban Army' and the 
insignia of Cuba engraved on them" as indicated 1?Y2 J;he Vene-
-~zuelan photographs shown at the (9As)~ These 4elegat~s\ believe, 
o(, ·Penna Mari_nho\w~nt on, that if Cuba had actu4lly ·sent' the arms 
o Venezuela .i. t would first have removed any inpication of 
t_heir origin. This account indicates that thetBrazilian dele-()6 
gate\and the others of whom he speaks are apparently unaware 
that/considerable effort had, in fact~ been made to erase all 
evidence of the Cuban origin of these arms. The 31 submachfne 
guns found in the cache had their serial numbers and other 
identifying marks recently ground off. Venezuelan technicians, 
using a highly technical process, were able to raise the serial 
numbers and the Cuban shield on some of the weapons. In inde­
pendent tests, US technicians were able to raise the numbers 
and shields on three of these weapons. The numbers correspond 
to those of weapons known to have been delivered to Cuba from 
Be.lgium in 1959 and 1960. Similarly, in the case of the 81 
light automatic rifles of Belgian manufacture found in the 
cache, all identifying marks had been obliterated. In this 
case, one-fourth inch of molten brazing alloy had been used 
to. cover the places where·the numbers had been ground off and 
it was not possible to restore the numbers. However, Venezuelan 
military authorities-have noted that these weapons are unique 
to those manufactured expressly for the Cuban Government by 
Belgium's Fabrique National.._e in 1959, when Cuba ordered 22,500 
such weapons. (NSA ·3;O;,{l3LJ?IT2041-63, 6 December, TOP· SECRET 
DINAR; backgrounsi data:CA'SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM) 
. 0~ 
The\Venezuelan OAS-· delegate) dispatched a "personal, urgent, 
and confi'cte_ ntial" message to his iforeign ministe~~n 6 December 
expressing.certain misgivings as't--o the attitudes 0 of members 
of the special:(9.A~act-finding committee with respect to the 
Venezuelan charges 1lgainst th,c,(;astro regime· which the committee 
was named· to investigate. Th8 i'inbassadorj reported that he had 
just received "strictly confideb:tial information" that the pre~ 
vailing opinion within the committee is that it must investigate 
the entire subject of Cuban subversive activities in Venezuela, 
not limiting itself to the evidence on the Cuban origin of the 
arms cache found in Venezuela last month. 
-8-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
