( 
( 
( 
( 
[ 
g. 
., 
C .,.;.. ~ 
.. -,~ .... · Sr.;CTION 87. Sl!!CURITY INVESTir ""IOWS 87D • 
~,. of the source, date of acti vi. date rc,c~i ved, anc1 name 
of the A£rc:nt receiving the information arc known, :i.t in 
not necessary ·l;o request the office orii!:i nally obtaining 
the information to document it further by furnishing 
informa:tion shovdng the location of the original in 
the office files. If all documentation, except the 
latter item, is not in the possession of the office 
preparing the report, it should be obtained. 
V. If it is found desirable to include in a report the 
identities of individuals v,h.o are knoNn communists 
and have been associates of the subject to lend 
weight to evidence of the subjcct 1 s potential 
dangerousness, only the source of the information 
showing the associate to be a communist need be 
identified. 
VI. In a very J.imited number of instances it may be necessary 
to obtain a thumbnail sketch or characterization of an 
individual or organization from another office or the 
Bureau. When such information is received in your 
office, it should be placed in thumbnail :iketch files 
so that it will be available to and can be readily 
loca:l;ed by Agents ha-ving future. need for it, thereby 
eliminating repeated requests of another office for the 
same information, . 
Chann,lizing memoranda - destruction bf following submission of reports 
in security cases 
Channelizing memoranda in organizational and individual security' case 
files may be destroyed following submission of reports in these cases. 
In destroying these memoranda, be guided by the following instructions: 
(1) T'he .A.gent, at the time he dictates the report, is to pr"pare 
a memorandum listing the channelizing memoranda to ba d ',troyed 
by serial or serial scope an'd requesting the chief clert:, s 
office to destroy. This memorandu~ should indicate that pertinent 
information contained in the serials to be destroyed was in­
corporated in the report. Use form FD-338 for th:i:s purpose. 
(2) The cover pages accompanying the report will list the file and 
serial number of the original informant r(• 1lorts or master 
channelizing memoranda. 
(3) In the case of multiple volumes the des-I: •tion memorandum should 
be prepared by the Agent in sufficient 1.: ·ors so th a·t. l'.ln,: copy will 
appear in each volume of the multiple vo.:;.·, :.,e file bei1{{ :. .. ~··ipped. 
(4} Prior to destruction, the Agent's recommendations are to ~u 
reviewed and approved by the supervisor at the time ·4e reviews 
and approves the report. 
(5) Employee destroying the channel:\ :,g .memoranda mus~ place date 
of destruction and bis initials . ·l;he destruction memorandum. 
Thereafter, this i:nemorandum will r:c filed in the case file as 
a permanent record of the serials destroyed. 
(6) Channelizing memoranda[based on confidential investig&tive 
techniques]ma.y be destroyed wtthout the necessity of identifying 
in the cover pages of the report the -exact location in the office 
:files of the original informati·on. The use of an asterisk 
identifies the source and the original information can be 
readily located. 
(7) Channelizing memo~anda of translations of foreign language news­
papers and periodicals may be destroyed provided the original 
translation is maintained in the m~in file of the publication 
conc·erned. 
( 8) Do not destroy channelizing memoranda in the fo.1101·:ing instanc·es: 
78a 
12-13-61 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 814 --=-------
