13-00000 
Strategy and Action on World Trade 
James H. Binger, Chairman 
Honeywell Inc. 
2101 Fourth Ave. S. 
Minneapolis, Minn. 55408 
, .. 
'What we {the United States] have is a little corner of the world, and we must. find a 
MY to live in it harmoniously with our neighbors, many of whom are every bit as 
good as we are at almost everything we do." 
The theme of my remarks is the intensifying con­
troversy over the conditions that influence our 
well-being here in the United States - particularly 
tbe threat of another unfortunate experience with 
protectionism. 
I am well aware that I cannot go deeply into this 
subject in a short space. This I know because I was 
privileged to serve on the President's Commission on 
International Trade and Investment Policy. For over 
a year we studied every way in which this and other 
countries are affected by international trade and 
investment policies. 
Protectionist Attitude 
•Let there be no doubt where I stand on the prin­
cipal issue. I believe that the threat of the protec­
tion! st attitude in America is far more than an is­
sue involving business and jobs. I sincerely be­
lieve that this issue embraces many powerful forces 
tbat will have an important bearing on whethe, or 
not all the peoples of the world make the most of 
tbeir opportunities in the years to come. 
I recognize that there are strong and honest dif­
ferences of opinion on the proper direction of our 
nation's foreign trade policies. There are many 
persons and suppliers who have been adversely af­
fected by foreign competition. It would be unreal­
istic not to acknowledge this fact of life. 
Complexity 
These differences of opinion, and these disloca­
tions of people's lives, point up the complexities 
of the problem. Who among us can honestly say he 
understands all of the ramifications involved in the 
balance of trade? Where is there an unchallenged 
expert on monetary policy? What type of restraints, 
if any, could or should be made on the world-wide 
transfer of technology? What is the proper level 
of East-West trade relations, and are the national 
defense implications of yesterday still appropriate 
Based on a talk before the Board of Governors of the Electronic Indus­
tries Association, Phoenix, Ariz., January, 1973. 
today? Should the United States government be sup­
porting broad research and development to match the 
funds that foreign countries are investing in their 
industry? Can we preserve the rise in productivity 
that underlies the American miracle - which is the 
production of goods at low cost while wages, taxes 
and dividends all rise steadily? 
These are just some of the questions whic~ must 
be asked in the discussion now developing, particu­
larly in the halls of Congress, but also at various 
other governmental and community. levels. 
Facing these and still other complexities, we 
know that Congressional hearings soon to begin 
could result in new laws and regulations which 
could be detrimental. 
Action 
Because this is so, it will not do for anyone 
with a qualified viewpoint backed by experience, to 
be simply an observer. I am convinced that this 
present controversy ca~ be resolved positively, but 
it will require action. 
What kind of action will be most effective? the 
kind of action which is in the public interest? -
not special pleadings based on the experience of a 
single company, or a single industry, or even a 
single community. 
It is, of course, important to gather this sup­
porting information and be aware of all the facts 
tbat bear on our needs, our experience and the op­
tions that governments can take to effect them. But 
going beyond this, we must be prepared to discuss 
with everyone who wi 11 exert influence on our elected 
lawmakers the more important question - what do all 
these statistics and contentions mean to me? • 
The Concerns of U.S. Citizens 
The concerns of the ~reat body of United States 
citizens are how to assure and enhance their jobs 
and living conditions and be involved in what was 
once unashamedly described as "the pursuit of hap­
piness". 
