87E 
'') 
SECURITY INVESTIGATIONS. 
:r.. nrvESTIC!.TION OF INDIVIDUALS - DNESTIGATIVE PROCEDURES AND TECHNIQUES 
. -I 
I 
1. Gene:::-al • • ( __ ·_ All pertinent information concerning subject's background and subversive 
activity must be fully developed and reported to assure accurate evalua-
[· 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
. [ 
[ 
tion of his dangerousness. Use discretion to prevent subjepts from 
becoming unnecessarily aware of investigation. 
!-".embers of law enforcement agenc:i.es are not to accompany Agents in 
security investigations without prior Bureau authority. 
2. Scope of investigations 
Following should be obtained: 
a. Background 
3 Occupation or business and employment address 
I
ll True name and aliases 
2 Residence address 
4 Citizenship status, including date and place of birth and 
pertinent data concerning naturalization of-aliens 
(5) Family background 
If possible, ascertain from source.s contacted a_nd report date 
and place of birth of subject's parents and spouse and parents 
of spouse. Do not conduct investigation solely for this 
information. 
(6) :t1:i.litary record 
Determine if subject ·has served in U.S. armed forces; time, 
place, and circumstances of such service; type of discharge . 
received; and any membership in veterans' orga~izations. If 
subject served in armed forces of any foreign government, 
determine pertinent facts. 
(7} Close relatives 
Determine whether subject has any close relatives in U.S. 
armed forces or in other positions of trust and confidence, 
whether public or private, relating to national defense. 
(8) Identification record . 
(a) Be alert for identification record showing arrests and/or 
civil data. Check local police records. 
(b) When subject "is approved for security index, submit FD-165 
to check reoords of Identification Division ·and to post 
flash notice if fingerprints on file. FD-165 will be 
returned if positive identification cannot be made vrith 
fingerprints on file. Office of origin is responsib•le for 
resolving identification vrhen record has been furnished by 
Identification Division as possibly identical.· If positive 
identification cannot be made, it·is not necessary to 
communicate .further with Identification Divisi·on. 
(c) When office of origin is changed for security index or 
reserve index A subject after flash notice has been placed, 
form FD-128 (changing origin) should so indicate. Send 
extra copy of FD-128 to Identification Division so its 
records will show new office of origin. 
(d) [On those individuals who are Security In·dex subjects 
on whom no fingerprints are on file with the Identification 
Division, a Security Flash Notice (FD-165} should be 
submitted periodically on a staggered basis and at· 
different intervals. Priority I, Security Index, subjec.t 
:x-equests should· be submitted every six months commencing 
with the submission of an annual report and every six 
months thereafter. In the case of Priority II and Priority 
III, Security Index, subjects, requests should be sub-
mitted on an annual basis in conjunction with t]).e submission 
of the annual report or annual verification of residence-
and employment. This periodic requirement is satisfied 
upon notification by the Identification Division of a 
:fingerprint record on the subject and the placing .. of a stop 
against such record or upon the removal of a subject from 
the Security Index.] 
22 
8-13-71 
-
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1968 
(. 
