' .. 
I• 
I 
. [ 
·[ 
[ 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 
SJi~CUHITY 87D 
(b) Where potPnt:i ... ,::rngerousness of a subject has been 
established a•. inclusion of that subject in security 
index is wnrrk~~ed, the office of origin shall submit a 
recommenda·l;ion i.'or inclusion in security inrle:x by sub­
mitting form ]'D-122 to Bureau. F'orm must be prepared 
(c) 
(d) 
(g) 
(h) 
in triplicate. Original and one copy Jhall be forwarded 
to Bureau and one copy will be placed in subject 1 s 
investigai;i ve case file. 
Nothing should appear on FD-122 or subsequently on tbc 
security.index card which is not in the subject's case _f~la. 
Form FD-122 has two uses: (1} to recommend a su·bje::ct .for 
inclusion in the ~ccurity index and (2) to submit changes 
to data which appears on face of security index cards 
already existent. • 
Proper selection should be made in the opening para&raph 
option. J!'D-122 is submitted v;ith abstract when use.cl to 
recommend the .subject for inclusion in the securi'ty index 
and without abstract when 1.1.sed to indicate additions, 
deletions., or changes in data appearing on existing cards. 
When iorm FD-122 is submitted to Bureau recommending in­
clusion of a name in security index, attach addition,>.} 
page or pages setting out a succinct summary of facts on 
which recommendation has been based. Facte must be in 
detail to clearly show soundness of recommendation. 
Statements of conclusion are not enough and original sources 
must be characterized as to reliability. Summary must con­
tain pertinent dates of subje~trs actiTities. 
. When, at conclusion of investigation, subject's name is not 
being recommended for security index, set out a brief 
surr.mary statement in the appropriate- communic~tion closing 
. -the case showini; reasons for the <1ecision. 
Security index cards shali ·be r·ecom.-nended by. and maintained 
by office of origin only . 
.A current report must be in possession of the B.ur.eau when 
subject is recommended for security index. If it is the 
initial report in the case, it must be a summary report. 
If-, however, prior investigative reports have·been sub­
mitted which are suitable for dis semina:tion and are 
appropriately documented, a summary report need not be 
submitiied. 
·To assure that subject recommended fo.r se·ourity inde·x·wifl 
receive proper attent1on, case shall be kept in pending or 
pending-ina.ctive status until security index card has been 
received from Bureau and fi1ed in office security index. 
If ca$e continues in pending statl.s because of outstanding 
investigation, reports shall carry. a leac1 to follow author-
. ization of security index card by the Bure.au and if approved 
to[disseminate a copy cf the report to]Secret Service in 
addition to other leads. If outstanding in~estigation 
has been bompleted and case would otherwise be closed • 
upon subm'ission of the report and.'form FD-122, case- ::hall 
be placed in pending-inactive. status with lead to .follow 
authorization of security index ca.rd by Burea1.t and if 
approved[to dissemi1mte the copy of the report]to Secre~ 
Service. In latter instance, upon receipt of security 
index c·ard and following local dissemination to Secret Ser•i'ice, 
case may be closed administra~ively. 
Recommendation for security index. card should not -be dela·yed 
because of absence of i~formation conce~ning race. sex. 
citizenship. date and place cf birth, or desciiptic~ wh~re 
s~curlty index card is warran~ed. In such instances, ~ec­
ommenda~ion for the card should· be submitted with a c·,.u>rent 
report ijnd case retained in pending status with acti~e 
inve3tiiation continuing to determine missing items of 
inf orm:l..t i en. 
47 
3-25~65 
