r • 
Memorandum to Mr. Adams 
Re: SENSTUDY 7 5 
FORMER SUPERVISOR LISH WHITSON 
ASSIGNED INTELLIGENCE DIVISION 
• 
Miami Airport, or whether Whitson had discussed this with anyone. 
Whitson advised Epstein that he had not gone to the Miami Office, that 
no Agent had met him, and that he had discussed the matter only with 
Sullivan. At this point, Whitson asked Epstein how he got the story. 
Epstein merely laughed and did not reply to the question. 
The foregoing represents the information furnished to 
Epstein by Whitson. Whitson made the following additional comments 
and observations. 
When Sullivan told Whitson he wanted him to fly the package 
to Miami, he stated that only he, Sullivan, Mr. Hoover, Mr. Tolson, 
and Mr. Belmont knew of this situation. Sullivan never did explain 
to Whitson anything more regarding this incident. Sullivan did during 
Whitson's anniversary celebration in 1968 in Sullivan's office refer 
to Whitson as ua real pro who knows how to carry out an assignment," 
and further commented that someday he would tell Lish about the 
assignment to which he had referred in his remarks. 
Whitson said that when he arrived at the North Terminal 
of National Airport, following Sullivan's telephonic instructions, 
a young man who was unknown to Whitson but who addressed him as 
"Mr. Whitson" turned a package over to him which was wrapped in brown 
paper and sealed with sealing tape. It is Whitson's recollection 
the package measured approximately 8 inches by 8 inches by 1 inch. 
It is Whitsonts recollection that at the time the foregoing 
occurred, Martin Luther King was either just about to go abroad to 
receive the Nobel Peace Prize or probably had already gone abroad. 
It was Whitson's further recollection that sometime shortly after 
the mailing of the package Sullivan commented to Whitson that the 
package had not yet been received by Martin Luther King. Because of 
this remark, Whitson is of the belief that the package was mailed 
to Martin Luther King at the headquarters of the Southern Christian 
Leadership Conference and not to Mr. King at the latter's home. 
Further, it was Whitson's recollection that it.was not long after he 
had mailed the package that Martin Luther King had a personal meeting 
with former Director Hoover in Mr. Hoover's office. 
Whitson stated that during the interview Epstein asked 
Whitson if he had ever written a memorandum regarding this matter, to 
which Whitson replied in the negative. He was also asked by Epstein 
if he had ever seen a memorandum on this and Whitson again replied 
in the negative. Whitson observed that in his opinion the information 
which was in the possession ef Epstein pri~r to his interview with 
2 - CONTINUED - OVER 
NW 38296 Docld:32989532 28 
