13-00000 
!~2 :;'.:::
1
:,:_;;,:;:f ~~::1~'1~*\''.C ·-:~.":: " . •• d.'f_" Fe,8 l'I ?r THE ,. L w yo",< mr, 
0 
,TrariSC:ript ofthe·President's News Con 
~t • Following is a transcrif," of Presi-
t-'dent , Car_ter·s news • conference i11 • 
I 
Washmgto1t y.tstcrday afternoon, as· 
.,-ecorded by The New , York Times 
1 through tli'i facilities of ABC News: 
'i"·-,, 
~,- Opening Statement,. 
11.i'•Gocd afternoon everybody, I'd like 
• to make a verv brief statement as a 
-progress report· to the .American people 
of some items that. are important to 
i l!S. . 
f' We have submitted and the Congress 
' lis now considering legislation to give 
me the authority to reorganize ,_ the 
, executh·e branch of Government. The 
• Senate Committee under Senator Ribic­
. cff has now completed their hearings 
. •and they'll be marking UP. the bill 
! beginning tomorrow. 
l The House Committee on Govern- • 
'ment Operations undeT Congressman 
Jack Brooks has 'scheduled :hearings to 
. begin on March 1. • 
So because of the interest of the 
• :American people and the Congress and 
myself in completing this very crucial 
project I think the Congress is moving 
'with great expedition to give me that 
. iaut-hority. • 
I, We've -also iini,tiated with directions 
: fo the members of 'the Cabinet and 
other agency !hea<ls a new program to 
cut down on the extremely great over­
load of paper work with a requirement 
that those who prepare Government 
regulations be responsible for the 
preparation assigned '1lhem. I've asked 
my Cabinet ·officers to read the regula­
tions that are forthcoming from their 
departments each week until they see 
the volume and the complex~ty of them, 
and we hope to eLiminate unnecessary 
regulations, abbreviate those that are 
necessary and express tllem i_n a lan­
guage so that we can all understand 
(hem. 
1 I've -also asked . major elements of 
our own society, the university profes­
sors ia:nd the state offidals in this last 
week to give me their suggestions on 
.how the regulations might -be improved. 
We have done -the same thing with 
reports required by the Federal Govern­
n1ent. I hope, to 'reduce drastically the 
1iur.iber of -reports and the frequency 
of those reports and the. cpmplexitY.. 
of them. •• 
• We will complete the proposed 1egis­
lation on creating a new Department 
of Energy this week. The proposed 
legislation is now on my desk. It will 
be submitted -to the Congress for action 
the first of next week. And we've con­
sulted very closely with the key leader.s 
Jn the Congress and I believe there's 
going to be a rapid creati0n of this 
new department and a J1eavy emphasis 
Qn the importance of energy questions 
to our people. : 
We will also present to the American 
people. probably at a joint' session of 
the Congress a speech by, me about 
April ~O, a comprehensive energy poli­
cy wl11ch would involve all the com­
plexities of the ebergy que,stion. It's 
·something that's long overdue and -it's 
. going to be quite profound in its impact 
on the American consciousness and our 
•society, ·and I hope it will be compre•. • 
'----=••- __ .:.. .. _L ,t. • '• " • "• 
President Carter walking past reporters after news conference at the E: 
I'm not going t<>: leave of not comment­
ing directly on 'any specific CJ.A. ac­
tivity. But I can tell you that I have 
beg1,1n a complete analysis which will 
be completed within the next week of 
all activities by the CJ.A. I've received 
substantial reports already. . 
I've reviewed the more controversial 
revelations that have be·en publicized 
in the last few days, some quite errone­
ous, some with some degree of accura­
cy. These same .operations have been 
reviewed by the Intelligence Oversight 
Board, an independent board, and also 
by my -predecessory, President Ford. 
I have not found anything illegal or 
improper. 
If in future assessments, which will. 
come quite early,- I discover such an 
. impropriety or an. illegality I will not 
only take immediate action to correct 
it but also will let the American people 
know about it. 
I might say this. This is a very serious 
problem of how in a democracy to have 
adequate ·intelligence gathered, as­
sessed and used to guarantee the- se-
• cui'ity of our country. It's not part of 
the American nature to clo things in 
secret. Obviously, historically aiid still 
at this modern time there is a neces,sity 
. to protect sources of information from 
other nations. Sometimes other Gov-. 
ernments cooperate with us folly; 
sometimes they don't. 
But I'll_ try to be sure, and so will 
Stan: Turner, who will be the next 
director of_ the intelligence community. 
He Will try to ,be sure that. every thin~ 
we do is not only proper and legal, 
but also compatible with the iattitudes 
of the Ameriom people. 
One other po,int I'd like to make is 
this. It can be extremely damaging to 
our relationship with other nations, to 
!~~--p~~e~!i_a! _ .~ec~ri!y o_{ our. ~o1!ntr)_'. 
with labor and management Bu 
whether I'll be successful, I don't know 
I'm just going to have to do my >iest 
• 6. Human Rights Abroad 
Q. In your letter to Mr. Sakh, rn, 
you said that the Unitrd States would 
use its good offices to seek the release 
of prisoners of conscience. • An :l • ✓ ou 
said that you wanted to continue· tc 
shape _a world responsif)Je to human 
aspirations. As you know then' are 
Jrnman rights problems in many othe1 
countnies. And some of thein like Iran 
or the Philippines rwe support with 
:arms, or we support with American aid. 
These are countries whern many people 
believe we have more leverage than 
we might ha\'e in the. Soviet Union. 
What if anything do you plan to. try 
to do to help victims of political rf"IJres• 
sion in these countries? 
A. l think without my trying t0 take 
credit for it there has been a sub~tan­
tial move toward concern about 111 'llan 
rights throtighout the world. I rhink 
this has t.,l,.:·n place ::: prob;ib 1y ·a 
dozen or more different un,,. ··:es, 
There's an arou.,ing interest in thto posi­
tion that our own Government here in 
our free country does take. Obvi,111sly 
there are deprivations of human nghts 
even more brutal than the ones on 
whioh we've commented up to now. 
In Uganda the actions there have dis­
gusted the entire civilized world and, 
as you know, we have no diplomatic 
relationships with Uganda. But h,, e is 
an instance where both Ambassador 
Andrew .Young and I have expres·sed 
great concern about what is there. The 
Britis1h are now considering asking the 
United Nations to go into Uganda to 
assess the horrible murders that :q·par­
ently are taking place in that countrv-
