1 
( 
( 
P,ART II - 6E - G 
SECTION 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, .... AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
4. One copy of the circular letter is to be filed, A list o~ addresses is to 
be attached. Upon the receipt of a reply, "the addressee is name is to be 
checked to indicate this fact. Replies which are entirely negative 
should not be filed unless ·there is reason for doing ~o. •. Only negative 
replies are to ~e destroj~~ ~fter handlin~ in accordance with item 3 
above. Sub-A files may· be~ used wh·en the number of replies· ";to be filed. 
is large. -
5. Circular letters and other information to be distr•ibut·ed· or released to 
the public mus-t be so worded as •to be unobjectionable :to. any race, creed, 
or religion, • •• •• 
6. Trade publications may, with advance Bur'e~au approval, be used· io publicize 
information concerning fugitives known to be ~ctive iµ pa~ticular trades, 
businesses,· or professions, The field office where the,. publication i.s 
located should check its indices concerning the publication,· as well as 
·the person or persons who will hav~ to ~e contacted, b~fore seeking Bureau 
approval, and sufficient identifying data should be furnished so that an 
appropriate Bureau indices check may be made . 
. F. RADIO BROADCASTS 
Radio broadcasts without advance Bureau approval may be made in hot-pursuit 
fugitive cases. Care must be exercised in broadcasting a license number 
believed used by fugitive as it may be disposed of·to afi innocent third per­
son. 
G. FIELD OFFICE LISTS 
1. Law enforcement officials . 
Page 
a. On March 1 of each year all field offices shall forward to the Bureau 
in duplicate, and with a space left between the officials of each 
department, a list of such law enforcement officials and agencies 
whose cooperation might be helpful. [Indicate by an asterisk any 
change which was not p;r-eviously called to the :eureau 1.s attention.] 
2) Sheriffs • 
\
1) Chiefs of police 
3) State police or highway patrol commanders and ranking officers 
in command of districts 
4) U. S. Marshals and deputies 
5 Ranking Federal law enforcement officers 
6 Wardens of penal institutions 
7 District attorneys or county pro~ecutors 
8 Railway police (if desirable) • 
9 Officers receiving law enforcement bulletins . 
(10 Any other officials who receive identification orders 
b. Changes .in the list are to be reported in duplicate to the Bureau 
as they occur. 
o. Letters advising the Bureau of changes are to be set.up as indicated: 
No. City 'Deleted Added Remarks 
4 Center City, Iowa 
7 Jonesville, Iowa 
3 Brownsville, Iowa 
John M. Doe, Sheriff 
Wayne County 
Richard Brown· 
Chief of Police 
George Smith 
Constable 
3a 
1-29-62 
R: Roe, . S'.q.eriff 
Wa.yne County 
George Smythe. 
Deceased 
successor 
not named 
To show 
correct 
spelling· 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 351 
