,; 
) 
[ 
[ 
,.. .. 
Sr' • r(j~T 87. SECURITY INVESTIGATIO: • 
-· • -This should be aone prior to requesting authority 
87D 
to institute the investigation where sufficient 
identifying information is not otherwise available. 
(~) Contacts during investigation 
I, Once Bureau authority is granted to conduct the in­
vestigation, it is permis~ible to oon·f;aot: 
(A) All established reliable sources, including tho~~ 
connected with the institution of learning 
(B) All individuals not connected with the institution 
of learning who, consistent with discretion, would 
be contacted in a usual security case; e.g., 
neighbors, credit agencies, past employers, etc. 
(C) Registrars 
If the registrar is reliable and can be depended 
upon not to divul~e the Bureau's identity; Bureau 
authority is not needed in these cases to oont~ot 
the regis~rar 1 s office to obtain background data 
useful for identification purposes, to develop other 
proper investigative leads, or to verify connection 
with the institution of learning. 
IIo Superiors of faculty members 
Uo contact should be made with the superiors of a sub­
ject who is a member of the~faculty since the superiors 
might take action against th~ subjeot as a result of. 
our contact. • 
-·Irr. Students, faculty members~ or other· employees 
If, during the course of an investigation of a subject 
who is connected with an i;.1s ti tut ion of learning, it is 
desired to in~erview a student, faculty member, or·other 
employee of an institution of learning who is not an 
established reliable source, prior Bureau authority must 
be obtained. When requesting authority to intervievr 
such an individual, that individual's name, position, and 
a positive statement concerning his discretion and 
reliability should be furnished to the· Bureau. 
{ o). Reoei ving -roluntary information •• .· 
These instructions must not deter or prevent the immediate 
and proper interview of any person oenneoted with an 
institution of learning. who deaires of his. ovrn voli tio:2 to 
furnish informP.tion to the Bureau or w:!:J.o desires to be 
oontaoted by an Agent. • 
(2) Subjects not connected with an institution of learning 
When the subject of a security-type investigation is not oonncoted 
with an ins ti tut ion of learning and you de_sire to interYiew, in 
connection with the oase 5 a student~ faculty member, or other 
employee of an institution of lear::iing, prior Bui·eau authcd. i;y 
. mus·!; be obtained for suoh 2.n interview unless the s-tude11t, faculty 
member, or other employee is :;,.u established relir,ble contact of 
the office. In requestillg autho1'ity, ·i;he name, position, and 
a positive statement cohc~rning that.person's discretion and re­
liability should be furnished to the Bureau. 
- . (3) Contacts of foreign establishments 
In connection with inves·tigutions cf contacts of Soviet, satellite, 
and Yugoslav officials and official establishments, [excep·t for 
inquiries of reliable established sources, ]Bureau authority rnust 
be obtained before conductin~ any inquirle~ or surveill~nces at 
any school, college, or uni_vcrsity. Submit complete facts and 
your recommendation when requesting such authority. 
U. S. Government employees, individu:.1.ls huving foreign tliplo:natic 
or oflicial status, employees of foreign official establisbra~nta, 
employees of the United lfa.tions or in-1:erna•~ional organi~~ations, and 
members of tj:J.e armed forces 
Should. infoz:ma ti on be received or in;ves tig:1tion develop the fact 
that an indivi<lual being invcstiitated under a security caption is 
or becomes 
25 
11-1'1-60 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 860 
