13-ooooq: -~~>¼K-;·-.• . .: :~';":'> •• • •. _ . . • . •.. -;·:;'J"';;;.e~q;'.;:;:·.'.:_.+-'~:•:,f;:,F<i'~i{::!~~~,:~~;:}z:'~'.~~:~-
ciiAPTER s: THE STANDARDs FoR REvIEw: REvIEw BoARD #CoMM<>N.LAw"·•·· • ·: •>:·<=-·· 
b. CIA's Lee Harvey' Oswald "201 "file. 
CIA opens a 201 file on an individual when it 
has an "operational interest" in that person. 
The CIA opened its 201 file on Lee Harvey 
Oswald in December 1960 when it received a 
request from the Department of State on 
defectors. After President Kennedy's assassi­
nation, the Oswald 201 file served as a depos­
itory for records CIA gathered and created 
during CIA's wide-ranging investigation of 
the assassination. Thus, the file provides the 
most complete record of the CIA's inquiry in 
the months and years immediately following 
the assassination. 
c. The FBI's "House Select Committee on 
-~sassinations"(HSCA) Subject Files. 
During the. HSCA's tenure, the Committee 
made a number of requests to the FBI for 
records that the Committee believed might 
be relevant to thei:i;-investigation of the 
Kennedy assassination. In response to the 
HSCA's requests, the FBI made available to 
the HSCA staff approximately 200,000 pages 
of FBI files. The FBI began its processing of 
the "HSCASubject" files in 1993~ The Review 
Board applied its "Segregated Collection" 
guidelines (explained, below) to the HSCA 
subject files. 
d. The CIA's "Segregated Collection" files. 
HSCA investigators gained access to CIA 
files. Upon completion of the HSCA's work, 
the CIA kept separate the files that it had 
made available to the HSCA and retained 
them as a segregated collection. This collec­
tion is divided into· two parts: paper records 
and microfilm. CIA made 63 boxes of paper 
records available to the HSCA staff. The 
paper records consist, in many cases, of par­
ticular records that CIA culled from various 
files. The 64th box ot the CIA's segregated 
collection contains 72 reels of microfilm and 
represents the entire set of files from which 
records were made available to the HSCA. 
Thus, in many cases, the microfilmed files 
contain material well beyond the scope of the 
HSCA investigation and may, for example, 
. cover an agent's entire career when only a 
small portion of it intersected with the assas­
sination story. 
45 
e. FBI records on the congressional commit-
tees that investigated the assassination. 
The JFK Act defined "assassination record" 
to include records relating to the Kennedy 
assassination that were used by the congres­
sional committees who investigated events 
surrounding the assassination. 24 
Before President Clinton appointed the 
Review Board, the FBI collected and began to 
process its administrative files relating to its 
involvement with each of these committees. 
In large part, the records contained in the 
Bureau's administrative files related to topics 
other than the Kennedy assassination. To the 
extent that the Review Board found records 
in these files that concerned topics other than 
the Kennedy assassination, it designated the 
records not believed relevant (or "NBR" aS­
that acronym is defined infra) and removed 
them from further consideration. 
f. Requests for Additional Information. 
Congress included in the JFK Act a provision 
that allowed the Review Board to obtain 
additional information and records beyond 
those that were reviewed by previous inves­
tigations. Chapter 6 of this report explains 
the requests that the Review Board made and 
the assassination records designated as a 
result of those requests. 
B. DECLASSIFICATION STANDARDS 
The Review Board's primary purpose, as out­
lined in section 7(b) of the JFK Act, was to 
determine whether an agency's request for 
postponement of disclosure of an assassina­
tion record met the criteria· for postponement 
set forth in section 6. Section 6 consisted of an 
introductory clause, which established the 
"clear and convincing evidence" standard, 
and five subsections that set forth the criteria 
under which the Review Board could agree 
to postpone public disclosure of assassina­
tion-related information. 
1. Standard of Proof: Clear and 
Convincing Evidence 
Text of Section 6 
Disclosure of assassination records or par­
ticular information in assassination records 
