13-00000 
OCA 1123-92 
1. Did the CIA retain possession of records requested by 
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on 
Assassinations? If so, how many pages of such records does 
the Agency have in its possession? What is the nature of 
these records? 
Yes, the CIA retained possession of records requested by 
or developed on behalf of the House Select Committee on 
Assassinations (HSCA). The Agency has approximately 300,000 1 
pages of such records which include microfilm of CIA's Oswald 
file (originally collected in response to the Warren 
Commission's inquiry, then added to) as well as records 
collected in response to specific requests from the HSCA. 
Although these records cover a wide variety of topics, they 
principally focus on CIA operations against Cuba and Castro, 
Lee Harvey Oswald's sojourn in the USSR, and Oswald's 
activities in Mexico City and New Orleans. The. vast majority 
of documents pertaining to Oswald were created in response to 
specific inquiries from the Warren Commission and HSCA. They 
also include a large number of name traces requested by the 
HSCA staff, as well as materials relating to the Garrison 
investigation, Watergate, Cuban exile activities, and copies 
of FBI reports relating to Oswald. Because the HSCA was also 
investigating the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, 
Jr., there is also some material on the Black Panthers and the 
civil rights movement. 
2. Does the CIA have records outside of those related to 
the HSCA that may be ·considered relevant to the assassination 
of President Kennedy? If so, please describe such records and 
the approximate nwnber of pages. 
The CIA responded to requests from the Warren Commission 
:>and the HSCA (approximately 300,000 pages, see above). The 
~ CIA has never, however, attempted to locate every document 
bearing on every conceivable angle or theory relating to the 
assassination of President John F. Kennedy. If the Agency 
were asked to explore newly advanced theories the search for 
,documents could be a rather large undertakinifinvolving the 
;review of thousands of additional documents. To conduct any 
; further search, CIA would require specific guidelines 
\describing the kinds of records sought. 
3. Did any of the records described in questions 1 and 2 
originate with the FBI? If so, approximately how many? 
u"vc, I.,,.~ 3 t? 
We believe that between 40 percent and-50---per-e€~ of the 
records described in questions 1 and 2 originated with the 
FBI. 
1 
