E. 
[ 
[ 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[. 
' .ION 87. S3CTj?.ITY nrr21STIGA~.1.. 
nrv1/.;'.i.'IGATIOHS OF COHM1J1flST J.t~R011T .AffJ K[scgLLAUNOUS ORGAHIZATIOUS 
1. Pu.rp o 9 e s 
a. To obtain nufficicnt pertinent data to make possible accurate 
detcrr:Jination of or(,rtni:;:ation• s true charn.cte:r • 
87E 
b, To obtain int0lligenoo data and keep Department and ~ther interested 
Government agnncios advised regarding existence and activities of 
~ubvorsiva orfanizations 
c. To obtai11 leg2.lly ac1missible evidence re subversive •nature of such 
organizat:i.on s to perrni t implemsnta tion of: • 
!
ll Intci:nal Security Act of 1950 
2 Registration Act 
3 Smith Act of 1940 
4 Executive Order 10450 
2. General policy -
-~-• lfo,·1ly formed 1::nown or suspected subversive or·i::ani:zations 
;.•· (1} Upon receipt of information concerning forr.,ation of such ::>. group, 
i,; ·, immedia·t-::ly open a case and advise Burei:,.u at that time. 
• -.;.; (2) Af-t;e·r .conducting sufficient inquiry to determine true character 
of· group • 
(a) If further investigation warranted, advise Bureau 
through established report writing procedures. 
(b) If f1.'lrther inve sti 6ation not warranted, advise Bureau 
results of: investiga·l;ion and· specific reasons for 
determination in letter form. 
b. Established subversive groups 
(1) Keep Bureau currently ad,ised bY. appropriate comrnunica~ion 
re pertinent activities including any changes in principal 
of1ioers, structure of organizations, and forthcoming events. 
(2} If no specific leads outstanding, case may be placed in 
pending-inactive status after submission of initial report. 
• [(
4
3} Submit reports at least every six monthc. 
( } In reports concerning.communist front organizations and misce•l­
laneous organizations,· such as the 1fation of Islam,. leac.ership 
in which is grounds for inclusibn in the security index, include 
on cover pages a statement that all persons named in the report 
as officers o.r leaders and who reside within the area coverc:d by 
the reporting office are listed in the security index or ara 
informants or sources. ]xceptions should be named and a state­
ment made as to the status of their investigations.j 
.c. Or!aniza.tions political in cha:r:acter 
(1 Inve stiga·tion s.h ould not be instituted with out Bu::i:-·eau approval. 
(2 Furnish all pertinent information concerning· communist 
infiltration, influence, or control of such organizations to 
Bureau in letter form. 
d. Organizations connected with institutions of learning· • 
(1) No invc stigation ·ho be conducted with out prior Bureau a_pprov-al 
{2) If requesting Burean authority to ·inver.::·1.: _::,.te, submit complete 
availa.1)lo data and reason investigation :. •, desi:r·ed. • • 
(3) If Bureau authority granted, it will be ;,1rrnissible to contact 
all established reliable sources, inQludi~g those.connected with 
instttution of learning. ~ 
(4) Before conducting any intc~view with individual conneqtod 
with institution of learning re security-type investigation of 
an organizatiqn, whether organization itself has been connbcted 
with institution of learning, Bureau authority must be obtained 
.to conduct such inter~iew unless individual is established 
reliable source. • 
(5) Section 87D 5a (1) of this ~anual should ~e read in conjunction 
with above instructions. . 
e. Le~itimate noncommunist o~ganizations that are communist infiltrated 
(1) No investigation should be conducted without prio~ Bureau ~ppr9val. 
83 
10-13-66 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 565 
