[ 
. 10., 
ll., 
12., 
13. 
14. 
15. 
• SECTION 107. SECURITY INFORMANT,S[.AND CONFIDENTIAL .SOURCES] 107G. 
• • 
such activities, the Bureau will consider placing him in contact 
with a reliable publisher, but it must be made clear to the inform­
ant that the Bureau will not sponsor or endorse any book or publi­
cation which he elects to write., 
All payments to discontinued security informants and.confidential 
sources must be made on a strict c.o.d. bas.is. Obtain Bureau author•~ 
;i.ty before making any such payments. In requesting Bureau authority 
for payments of this type, submit complete details as to the infor­
mation f_urnished by the discontinued informant or source in the past 
and what is to be expected of the informant or source in the future., 
Once an informant is exposed in any manner whatsoey,er he is no longer 
to be carried as a concealed source in reports or memoranda. His 
true name ~A to be set forth, together with descriptive data. 
When an office receives information concerning,or obtains information 
from, an ex-informant, copies • of memoranda prepared must be furnished 
to the office which orig-inally handled the informant so that the file 
of the ex-informant will be as complete as possible 0 
When an in:forman-t has been discontinued for cause, such as unreliabil­
ity, he should not be contacted in the future for information. If 
sue~ ln individual furnishes information it should be accepted, but in 
setting out the information in reports or communications use the 
individualts true name 3 together with an appropriate description of his 
reliability. 
Renove flash notice per section F,[6.] 
Repeated use of the same discontinued informant as a witness at security 
trials and hearings should be avoided, Ma.ke an all-out effort to develop 
witnesses who can furnish the same testimony as that expected of previously 
used witnesses • .Advise Bureau of any indication by Government attorneys 
that an informant-witness who has previously testified will be called 
upon for testimony at a subsequent trial or hearing and furnish your 
comments concerning possibility of supplant:i.ng the testimony of individual 
involved. Submit communication under appropriate case character. 
- Every effort should be made to prevent a discontinued informant :from 
becoming involved in situations which may prove embarrassing to informant 
or the Government. Immediately after he testifies for the first time, a 
serious talk should be had with informant by the SAC in the presence of 
the Agent who handled the informant. This interview should be conducted 
in the field office and informant told that: 
a. Ile will no longer be operated by the Bureau 
be Since he is a public figure, he will probably be contacted by 
representatives of the press, radio, and television for interviews and 
appearances 
Do He r.iay be sought as a witness by congressional committees, by the 
Immigration and Natur::>.lization Service, and by state authorities 
d. (Firmly stress.) In connection with such interviews and appearances, 
informant must continue to be factual and truthful and must not build 
up or embellish the statements, for if he does s.o he will wind up in 
serious trouble • 
.Advise Bureau results of such interview and comment on its possible 
eff"ectiveness. 
NW 88321 Docld:32989529 Page 1787 
