13-00000 
ACROSS THE EDITOR'S DESK 
Computing and Data Processing Newsletter 
Table of Contents 
APPLICATIONS 
National American Bank Installs Computer­
Based Security System 
Nova Computer Checks Str~ngth of Roof in 
..-.:;- Coal Mi ne 
,1::i-hone Books by Computer 
EDUCATION NEWS 
DigHal;Equipment Corp. Computer Aids M.I.T. 
Music Project 
APPLICATIONS 
NATIONAL AMERICAN BANK INSTALLS 
COMPUTER-BASED SE CUR ITV SYSTEM 
Tom Burbank 
National American Bank 
200 Carondelet 
New Orleans, La. 70130 
42 
42 
43 
A computer-based system designed to prevent un­
authorized access to high security areas has gone 
into operation at National American Bank here -
one of the first U.S. banks to install such a svs­
tem. The IBM Controlled Access System (CAS) at.Na­
tional American is based on the use of magnetically 
encoded, wallet-sized identification cards similar 
to bank credit cards. 
Each person authorized to enter a security area 
is assigned a card coded with his own security num­
ber. Employees seeking entry to an area covered by 
the system simply insert their cards into .compact 
reading devices on entrance doors, and. the informa­
tion is transmitted to an IBM System/7 computer for 
identification. 
Stored in the computer's memory is a list of em­
ployee numbers and building areas these numbers are 
designated for. If the number of the card entitles 
the bearer access· to that area, the computer signals 
the door to unlock. If the person is unauthorized 
to enter, the door remains closed and a security 
guard is notified. The elapsed time is approximately 
one second. 
If a card is lost or stolen, a new card (with a 
new number) is issued and the system is alerted to 
deny entry to the original card.· If the old card 
is used, the guard is alerted. 
As an additional safeguard, the system can auto­
matically log all entrance activity by individual 
security code, door number, date and time of day. 
This helps track who is where and for how long. 
National American can now analyze the number of 
Composing by Computer at ISU 
Student Programs Computer for Remedial 
Instruction 
RESEARCH 
"Talking" Ballpoint Pen· Under Development 
MISCELLANEOUS 
ICCP Names Directors and Officers 
IFIP Congress '74 Travel Grants 
44 
44 
45 
45 
47 
times an individual enters and at what time of day 
or night this activity occurs. The system also has 
built-in failsafe mechanisms which insure security 
in the event of a power failure. 
"Unfortunately, we are doing business in a time 
when public and private institutions are increas­
ingly vulnerable to lawless elements," said National 
American President Louie J. Roussel III. "By adding 
the IBM Controlled Access System to our current se­
curity procedures, we are taking a major step to in­
sure that our customers and employees are protected. 
And, by controlling access to the collateral'instru­
ment storage areas, we can make it very difficult 
for unauthorized people to gain access to valuable 
assets st-0red in the bank." 
NOVA COMPUTER CHECKS STRENGTH 
OF ROOF IN COAL MINE 
Edgar E. Geithner 
Data General Corp. 
Southboro, Mass. 01772 
Data General's minicomputers track hurricanes 
from airplanes for the U.S. Air Force: the Armv has 
mounted them in helicopters: Scripps Oceanographic 
Institute has one ~n a ship; a scientist bounces 
over Canadian glaciers with one mounted in his 
tracked vehicle; and an oil company uses one of the 
computers to control an oilfield in the Libyan des­
ert. Now engineers at the University of Texas ·(Aus­
tin) have a minicomputer in the bottom of a mine. 
/ 
Dr. A. L. Podio, an assistant ~rofessor in the 
university's Department of Petroleum Engineering, 
and a team of researchers from the Center for Earth 
Sciences and Engineering, use a Nova 820. computer to 
detect possible weak spots in the roofs of mines. 
The computer system, developed for t~e U.S. Bu~eau 
of Mines, has been .on the job on the floor of Kaiser 
Corporation's York Canyon coal mine in New Mexico. 
"One of the most frequent causes of mine accidents 
is roof collapse," Dr. Podio said. "This system was 
de~igned to use the principles of seismic explora­
tions to identify failure planes and fracture zones 
in the rocks overlaying the mine roof. If tests 
