Hr, Williaa M. x.nt 
waehington, D. C. 
Dear Jtr. let 
SECRET 
INTEGREE AGREEMENT 
Thie is a memorandum of agreement between you and the United States 
Gover:cment 1n regard to your employment by CIA. It 1B hereby mutually 
agreed and understood that: 
l. As an employee of CIA, at the present grade and salary of ~~70 
per e.1u_;p.im~ou ~111 accept cover employment in the Foreign Service effective 
as of Z3 ~Se. You will, insofar as consistent with your basic respon­
sibility to CIA, abide by all the rules, regulatione, practices and policies 
of the Foreign Service in order to appear e.s a conventional member of that 
establishment. Your appointment to the F~ Service is being ef:fected 
at the class of PSB-7 and salary o:f__,,I0&35_""""_'--per annum. 
2. It is understood and agreed that the minimum period of your 
overseas tour of duty is governed by and coincident with the prescribed 
tour of duty of your cover organization. Currently, your prescribed tour 
consists of a period of tn ( ___2__) years fran the d11te of your 
arrival at your overseae poet of duty. Your assignment may be terminated 
earlier for the convenience of CIA, and the length of your tour of duty, 
as currently specified, lll8y be unilaterally changed by CIA in order to 
conform with subsequent changes in the prescribed tour of the Foreign 
Service, If you request termination of your overseas assignment solely 
for your own convenience, tm~ees 1~ is :for circumstances that are con­
sidered by the Agency to be beyond your control or if you are terminated 
for cause either by tne Foreign Service or CIA before you have completed 
the minimum period of service prescribed above from the date o:f arrival 
at your overseao post of duty, you will not be entitled to return travel 
or transportation for yourself or your dependents to the United States 
at Govercment expense. If you request termination of your overseas assign­
ment solely :for your own convenience, unless it is for circumstances that 
are considered by the Agency to be beyond your control er if you e.re 
terminated for cause either by the Foreign SArvice or CIA be:fore you have 
completed one (1) year o:f service frcrn the date of your arrival at your 
overseas poet of duty, you will be required to reimburse the Government 
for all its expenses for your travel and transportat1.:m, and that of 
your dependents, from the continental United States to such overseas post 
of duty. 
3. Travel to your post of duty overseas and your return travel to the 
United States, as well as travel performed overseas whicn 1s consistent 
SECRET 
