13-00000 
20/20 (ABC), August 27, 1993 
SHERR: It's so much smaller in real life-
WALTERS: Really? 
SHERR: -than it appears-
WALTERS: I think of it as a twge~ 
SHERR: Right. 
WALTERS: -kind of highway. 
1-'Abt:. 14 
SHERR: It's quite small, and Posner points out that if all the eyewitnesses who 
have come forward were in fact there that day, it would have been elbow to 
elbow~ In fact, it was not very crowded that.day. 
WALTERS: Nine hundred thousand documents released this week- what, 10,000 mare 
to come. Is that going ta settle anything? 
SHERR: Unlikely. That, however, is the one area where bath sides agree -
unclassify all those documents. Otherwise- and even so, this is going to be 
argued for generations to come. 
WALTERS: Probably. Probably. Thank you, LyM. 
Next, lllOSt people feel that breast cancer only attacks wo-en over the age of 50. 
Cvoice-overl But Dr. Tim Johnson reports that more and more young women are 
discovering they have a special battle to fight. What should you know? After 
this. 
[Commercial breakl 
It Could Happen to You 
BARBARA WALTERS: The American Cancer Society's meetin~s on breast cancer are 
taking place in Boston this week, and from that conference come reports of a 
disturbing new trend - younger wo~n diagnosed with the disease at a growing 
rate. Though diagnostic tests have improved over the years, breast cancer in 
younger women presents a special and quite serious set of problems. 
Cvoice-overl And as Dr. Tim Johnson reports, if you are under 40, much of what 
you previous learned about the disease may not apply to you. 
TERESA ROBERSON, Breast Cancer Survivor: I had lumps before, they were all- they 
turned out to be cysts. But I knew this was different. 
GAYLE RUSSELL, Breast Cancer Survivor: I had no history of any type of cancer in 
my family, so I was ver.y surprised. 
KERI DEARBORN, Breast Cancer Survivor: And everyone told me I was too young to 
have breast cancer, and I thought they were right. 
Dr. TIMOTHY JOHNSON, ABC News Medical Editor: Cvoice-overl A disease they 
thought they were too young to get, but more and more, the woman on the 
LEXIS~ NEXIS
9
<1> LEXISe NEXISe..,.---n•-
■ --........ 
Services of Mead Data Central, Inc. 
