13-00000 
.. 
in Section 7 and shall info:cm the custodian of records 
and the originating body of the record of its 
deteDDination. The Committee expects·that the Review 
Board.also will consult with the agency or department 
that originated the information in reaching its 
determination as to whether_public disclosure of the 
material must be postponed to ensure that it is 
apprised of relevant sensitivities presented by that 
information. For evaJll:)le, the Review Board should 
consult with the relevant Executive Branch agency that 
provided information incorporated into a Congressional 
document belore making a decision to release that 
document and shall infoJ:111 the originating agency of a 
decision to release that information. 
3. Identities of coyert employees (lllalify fox: postponement. •Intelligence agent• is something of a term 
of art that, left undefined, might not be construed to 
protect information that would reveal the identity of covert 
~loyees of intelligence organi~ations. Suggested 
clarifying report language: 
The term •intelligence agent• as used in section 
7(a) (1) (A) is intended to permit postponement of 
release of information that would reveal the identity 
of a domestic or foreign intelligence or 
counterintelligence asset, collaborator, foreign 
liaison contact, or covert employee of a United States 
intelligence organization, where the identity of any of 
these currently requires protection. 
4. ac,ard access to •anv record• of an Executive 
agency. In addition to adding language to section 10(1) (1) 
to clarify that requests for additional records must be made 
by the Review Board itself, report language should make 
clear that the Committee does not intend the Board's 
discretion in this regard to be unbounded. Suggested report 
language: 
Section 10(1)(1) provides that the Review Board may 
request •any record• from an Executive agency. The 
Committee intends to give the Review Board wide 
latitude to determine what additional records may be 
held by agencies that are relevant to the assassination 
of President Kennedy. Rather than the Committee 
attempting to define what recqrds should be requested, 
the Committee believes that this judgment is best left 
to the Board, which will develop expertise in 
assassination-related issues and documents as its work 
