,. 
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS· RUFF IDEALIST 
- PRr"-) .. i.i- ,l1r.--r:,~-.. 
, •!t it-{fT: ~ii-i:; CF K. . The Targeting of San Cristobal 
• - (,_:-.~-: ~::--
40. Although the sites themselves.were closed to ground 
observation; the movement of equipment to them from the ports 
. was in fact seen by CIA agents and by a number of .individuals 
.. who ia ter fled. to the US. The agents reported this informa­
tion as soon as they were able, but in most cases had to de­
pend on secret writing for communication. Hence, there was a 
lag of several days at least before their information became 
available. Refugee reports were delayed considerably longer 
for other, and uncontrollable, reasons--the time of the :in-
dividual's decision to leave Cuba, his discovery of means for. 
doing so, and his delivery to an interrogation center. Many 
of the reports so received dealt with unidentifiable construc­
tion activity. Many of them, because of the time-lags noted 
above, did.not arrive in Washington until after 14 October, 
and some are still coming in. 
41. Nevertheless, ·by about 1 October, the San Cristobal 
area had been pinpointed as a suspect MR.BM site and photographic 
con"firmation had been requested. This represents a consider­
able technical achievement:.. To understand why, it is again 
necessary to back-track in time. Since the moment of Castro's 
triumphal march into Havana, the Intelligence Community had 
been flooded with reports of Soviet weapons shipments and mis­
sile installations in Cuba. There were several hundred such 
reports, claiming the presence of everything from small arms 
to ICBMs, before August 1960, i.e., before the USSR had sup­
plied Cuba with any weapons at all. • More specifically, CIA' s 
file~ ciontain 211 intelligence reports (this does not include 
press it~ms) on missile and missile-associated activity in 
Cuba bef°ore·1 Jan 1962. All of these were either totally 
false or misinterpretations by the observer of other kinds of 
activity. Cil ·ana~ysts had naturally come to view all such 
reports with a high degree of suspicion. 
42. On 15 February 1962 an .interagency interrogation center 
was established by CIA at Opa Locka, near Miami, to handle Cu-
ban r,3fugeas and impro~~~the qua.lity of intelligence collected 
from them .. It was manned by trained bilingual interrogators 
from the armed services and CIA. The establishment of Opa Locka 
coincided with a sharp drop in reports of missile activity re­
ceived in Washington. When the ~efensive phase of the Soviet 
buildup began, the volume of Opa Locka reporting rose very 
TapidlY, and provided good information on the types of equip-
ment coming in, on the use of Soviet personnel and on these­
curity precautions imposed by the Soviets on this operation. 
(Such reports were the basis for the Checklist item cited in 
para- 9). 
-23-
TOP SECRET DINAR CHESS RUFF IDEALIST 
