13-00000 
•. 
Cl1-\ HAS NO 08.JECTION TO 
JudgeJohnR. Tunheim DE.CLASSIFIC/fflON AND/OR 
_ Chairman _ ~ELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION 
Assas • ti" D rds D • D---•t'J THIS DOCUMENT sma on neco nevlew uua.J,Q -
Prepared Testimony In Support of 
HR.1553, 
To amend the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 
to extend the authorization of the Assassination Records Review Board 
• untilSeptember30, 1998. 
Before the 
National Security, International Affairs and Criminal Justice Subcommittee, 
House Government Reform and Oversight Committee 
June4,1997 
I. Introduction 
Mr. 01.airman and Members of the Subcommittee, I would like to thank you for the 
opportunity to testify on behalf of the Assassination Records Review Board in support 
of H.R. 1553, which would extend the authorization of the Review Board for one final 
year. The Board acknowledges that all of the issues surrounding the assassination of 
President Kennedy will likely never be fully resolved, however, this additional time 
will allow us to complete our work, including the review and public release of critical 
FBI and CIA records, submit a comprehensive and complete final report to the • --
Congress and the President, and make available to the American public-as much 
information as possible on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy . .. 
,; 
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Chairman Burton for introducing 
H.R 1553, and Congressmen Waxman and Stokes for cosponsoring this bill. These 
Members have exhibited an admirable bipartisan spirit and an understanding that we 
as a government, and as a nation, must bring closure to a sad chapter of our history, 
and that we must seize this opportunity to do i~ now. In addition, we would like to 
express our appreciation to Chairman Hastert for chairing this hearing today. It 
provides an opportunity to explain what the Review Board has accomplished to date 
and discuss how we could finish our work in Fiscal Year 1998, if given the opportunity. 
Please allow me to introduce the other members of the Review Board with whom I have 
had the professional honor and personal pleasure to work: Dr. Henry F. Graff, 
_ Professor Emeritus of History, Columbia University; Dr. Kermit L. Hall, Dean, College 
of Humanities, and Professor of History and Law, The Ohio State University; Dr. 
William L. Joyce, Associate University Librarian for Rare Books and Special Collections, 
Princeton University; and Dr. Anna K. Nelson, Distinguished Adjunct Historian in 
