SECRET 
ANNEX E - PERU 
The ruling military junta in Peru started in 
February 1963 mass trials of more than 200 extremists, 
including 63.Communist leaders. In a 68-page indict­
ment, the government charges that the extremists have 
attacked police stations and banks, raised guerrilla 
forces, incited peasant violence, and caused riots in 
San Marcos University. The evidence to be submitted 
in the Lima trial alone runs to almost 700 single­
spaced pages .. The security forces have given us no 
evidence of a Moscow-Havana master plan, but there is 
ample evidence of Cuban involvement. 
The trials center on the activities of the Move­
ment of the Revolutionary Left (MIR), a roof-organiza­
tion for extremist militants founded by De La Puente 
Uceda in 1961. De La Puente had just returned from 
Cuba and said he brought instructions to "organize the 
revolution in Peru with economic and technical help 
from Fidel Castro." This phrase from the indictment 
conforms with reports our agents received at the time 
from close associates of De La Puente. He is one of 
the top extremists who escaped the roundup launched 
by the junta early in January. We believe he is in 
Cuba. We have a photograph, taken some time ago,. 
which shows De La Puente and two of his top Peruvian 
~ssociates with Fidel Castro in Havana. 
Although the government did not move against 
the Communists and other extremist groups with any 
great vigor, proof of Cuban involvement in subversion 
goes back at least as far as March 1962. Peruvian 
police fooled a Cuban-trained agent in the mountains 
into directing them to a guerrilla camp accessible 
only by foot, near Satipo, and almost simultaneously 
raided a house in the Lima s·uburb of Huampani from 
which trainees were being sent to the camp. As a re­
sult, they found complete guerrilla kits including 
Czech-made rifles with a pistol grip, instructions for 
dispatching and equipping the guerrilla candidates, 
and two radio transmitters brought in from Cuba. The 
custodian admitted he had used the radios to contact 
a sister in Havana. Most of the men arrested in this 
incident were released, but have been picked up again 
in the January roundup and are to be included in the 
mass trials. 
SECRET 
NW 50955 Docld:32424709 Page 27 
