.. (. • .. •• I " 
17- OJO 
The Hono~b]E John M. Deutch 
November 27, 1996 
Pages 
5. Compliance Depositions. Starting on or about August 1, 1997, the ~eview 
Board, pursuant to its statutory authority, may conduct depositions, 
under oath, of the Agency Compliance Official along with any oth~F 
agency officials with responsibility for complying with the JFK Act._ The 
decision to take a compliance deposition of an agency wfll be made on a 
case by case basis, taking into account the importance of the agency to the 
work of the JFK Act and the sufficiency of the agency's efforts to account • 
fully for its compliance with the JFK Act.· In the event that the Review 
Board decides to commence a compliance deposition of an agency, the 
responsible agency designee(s) will be expected to testify tmd..e~ oath with 
respect to any and all issues relating to the agency's recor_d sear(:h~ 
including the scope of the search, the identity of files searched; the 
destruction of any relevant records, and any other matters set forth in the . 
Final Declaration of Compliance. Any person obligated to appear for a 
deposition under oath shall be fully entitled to obtain legal representation. 
We look forward to receiving your initial response, by December 9, that designates your 
Agency Compliance Official and includes your statement regarding your position with 
respect to the provisions outlined in this letter. To the extent that you have any 
questions or suggestions regarding the Compliance Program, please do not hesitate to 
contact our General Counsel, T. Jeremy Gunn, at (202) 724-0088. 
Thank you for your cooperation with our work. 
Sincerely, 
,,--. 
·-• .....__ i(1\ f 
_ _,,,.,,.,,-· ____ , ·-J t --- -
David G. Marwell 
Executive Director " 
cc: The Horiorable Nora Slatkin, Executive Director, Central Intelligence Agency 
Michael O'Neil, General Counsel, Central Intelligence Agency 
John Pereira, Chief, Historical Review Group, Central Intelligence Agency 
Barry Harrelson, Senior Review Officer, Historical Review Group, Central 
Intellige~ce Agency 
