13-00000 
., f' 
CLANDESTINE SERVICES 
INSTRUCTION NO. 10-5 
SBCRET • 
CSI NO. 10-5 
SECURITY 
Revised i. 7 July 1958 
be furnished to the Office of Security. The requester should also furnish 
to the Office of Security any suggestions regarding the investigation to be 
conducted and any particular points to be emphasized in the investigation, 
auch as, special skills, abilities, and weaknesses of the subject. The re­
quester should also indicate what would be the most plausible type of cover 
(1. e., Government or commercial) to be employed in the conduct of the 
investigation and whether the subject has been briefed as to the fact of a 
pending investigation and, .if not, why this is not feasible. 
b. In Covert Security Approval or Proprietary Approval cases, the files of the 
/ Records Integration Division will be searched by representatives of the 
Office of Security. All files of the Records Integration Division, except 
those portions containing specific sensitive operational data, will be made 
available to the representatives of the Office of Security .. In those in­
stances where a document of interest contains sensitive operational .data, 
designated professional personnel within the operating division will re­
view that portion of the information and furnish therefrom to the repre­
sentatives of the Office of Security all information of the nature described 
in paragraph 5.a., above. The:Office of Security will conduct appropriate· 
investigation in each case and will issue or deny Covert Security Approvals 
and Proprietary Approvals, and Provisional Covert Security Approvals and 
Provisional Proprietary Approvals. 
c. The Office of Security will retain the investigative files in Covert Security 
Approval cases or Proprietary Approval cases, but will: 
(1) . Make available to the Counter Intelligence Staff any sign.ificant infor-
• mation in cases where Covert Security Approvals or Proprietary Ap­
provals are granted. 
(2) Iinmediately call to the attention of the Counter Intelligence Staff any 
new ~idence in Covert Security Approval or Proprietary Approval 
cases that reflects the subject's connection with a foreign government, 
the Communist Party, or any front organization of the Communist Party. • • 
d~ Where the Office of Security issues or denies a Covert Security Approval 
or a Proprietary Approval, formal notification will be directed to the re­
quester. In the case of disapproval one copy of the security disapproval 
will be forwarded to the Counter Intelligence Staff. Where a Covert Se­
curity Approval or Proprietary Approval is denied and the Clandestine 
Services still desires· to use the subject on a calculated risk basis, the Of­
fice of Security will, upon request, furnish to the Counter Intelligence Staff a 
. summary of the investigative data. Thereafter, the Counter Intelligence 
S_taff; the requester, _and the Security Support Division will attempt to reach 
an agreed position . 
. e. A Covert Security Approval or a Proprietary Approval may be preceded 
by a Provisional Covert Security Approval or a Provisional Proprietary 
Approval. • • 
SECRET 
.... : ... .-....... ____ _. .. . 
• 
f 
l 
0 
D 
----.,..; 
• I 
·--~j 
I 
