13-00000 
. , 
. • 
( 
SECRET 
a. Purging 
( 
DOHB 70-1-1 
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B 
15 November 1974 
Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It. requires. 
discrimination in r:ecognlzing operationally useful material, rather than the_ 
simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it .will therefore-take 
place under the supervision of a Recoras Officer. Purging should be done 
periodically. A 201 dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should 
be p1.!:ged. .\ 201 dossier should be purged of the following: 
(1) Duplicate material, Le., exact copy(s) of a document. 
(2) Name trace form (Fonn 362) unless it has been the basis for 
the opening. 
' ( 3) All abstract slips . 
(.4) All document restriction notices {Form 1884). ; . 
(S) The disseminat~ version of· positive intelligenc~ informat:io~ if • 
a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number 
then must be transferred to the first pa:ge of the raw report. 
{ 6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets { Form 610) and .dispatch . 
cover sheets unless there ·are remarks such as coordinations or comments. 
(i) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information 
contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is 
by the Records Officer. 
( 8) Top Secret documents are . not to be retained in a 201 dossier· 
forwarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention 
in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized 
· officer in the originating office or the Records Officer having jurisdiction 
over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification 
authority. If the document cannot be downgradt!d the file should be retained 
at the· desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained 
in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and n. 
cross-reference sheet { Form 867) placed in the 201 file gi0.ng the location . 
of the TS document. 
(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)). 
b. Mainterv.znce ·Proced_ures 
( 1) AH material in a 201 dossier will be fikd i<1 cbc,.,;,ent date order. 
In the case of document attachments which hav~ been cbssifiecl into a 201 
26.2 
SECRET 
i 
I 
I 
