13-00000 
~~:;-.-·- i ·-·-, 
11,:; .:, ·.• . 
??L· y ... 
The reasons for these casualty figures are the increasing effectiveness 
of Castro's internal security forces and discovery brought about when 
agents try to obtain food. No matter how good the documentation, an 
outsider in a community is viewed with suspicion. 
(b) Propaganda. The activities of CIA in this field are 
the mailing of leaflets and.radio broadcasts. Some 30-40,000 leaflets 
per month have been mailed and during a day there are 32 hours of 
programs emanating from seven different stations. It is believed that 
there is a very excellent listening public. The programs appeal to 
• people in a wide variety of jobs and professions. There is some jamming 
but it is spasmodic and generally confined to Havana. 
(c) Economic Denial. Mr. FitzGerald reported that the U.S. 
economic denial program is contributing to Cuba's declin~ng economy. 
Mention was made that the economic denial program would be more effec­
tive if the Canadians were willing to cooperate. Up to now they have 
not gone along with U~S. efforts, and they are supplying many items 
essential to Cuban economy. The UK and Spain are continuing to deal 
in certain types of goods required by the Cubans. Commodities going 
into Cuba in 1962 from the free world reached $101 million. While this 
represents less than in 1961 the amount is still too high. 
(d) Disaffections in the Military. While the military is 
loyal to Castro as ~s been noted there are indications that some leaders 
would like to break with the regime but lack courage and opportunity. 
Mr. FitzGerald commended a CIA-DIA task force which prepared a report 
covering some 150 Cuban military leaders. Out of this figure there are 
some 45 which look interesting from CIA's opez:ational·viewpoint. Mr. 
FitzGerald reported that CIA is in touch with three persons who are in 
the military or who have highly placed contacts in such circles. The 
aim is to use these three individuals to establish contact with military 
personnel inside Cuba. The principal aim is to get military leaders who 
have become .disenchanted with the Castro regime to dare to talk and plot 
Castro's downfall with each other. 
(e) Sabotage and Harassment. Mr. FitzGerald mentioned four 
successful-sabotage operations against a power plant, oil storage· 
facilities, a sawmill, and an underwater demolition operation against a 
. floating crane in one of Cuba's harbors. It is believed that the publi­
cation of these successful sabotage activities in the Cuban press has 
tended to raise appreciably the morale of the people. Also, such 
sabotage continues to keep·pres~ure on the Castro regime and adds to the 
growing economic problems facing the country. 
(f) Support of Autonomous Anti-Castro Groups. The question 
was asked from-where would the autonomous groups operate. Mr. FitzGerald 
replied that they would operate from outside U.S. territory. He mentioned 
• 
