13-0.0000 
... 
l 
TOP SECRET DINAR 
NON-BLOC RELATIONS - cont'd 
Despite the Moroccan announcement of its break in diplo­
matic relations with Cuba, the Cuban ambassador is still in 
Rabat and attends functions he normally attended. The 
chancery offices are open and the Cuban flag is flying. 
This situation has been a source of some embarrassment to 
the Moroccan Foreign Ministry. However, the US Embassy 
believes that the reception of the Cuban delegation by the 
Moroccan.Government may presage the official re-establish­
ment of diplomatic relations. An officer in the Spanish 
Embassy in Rabat believes this is entirely possible; he be­
lieves the Soviets are using their influence to keep the 
Cuban Embassy in Rabat. The US Embassy also feels that the 
Moroccan King may not feel he received sufficient benefit 
to justify continuing the break in diplomatic relations with 
Cuba. (Am Emb Rabat 860, 4 December, CONFIDENTIAL) 
The Swiss ambassador in Cuba was informed by the dep­
uty foreign minister that the preliminary hearing had been 
completed for the US citizen Frank Emmick, who reportedly 
will be charged with being a CIA agent. (See Daily Summary 
of 5 December.) The.ambassador believes that Emmick's trial 
will be held shortly ifter the completion of the OAS inves­
tigation into charges by Venezuela of Cuban intervention in 
Venezuelan affairs. Curr.ently, the ambassador is trying to 
find a Cuban lawyer to defend Emmick. He is considering the 
lawyer hired by the Canadian Embassy to defend the Cuban 
pilots Lippert and Milne, an attorney who handles Swiss Em­
bassy affairs, or a member of the Havana University Law 
School faculty. (Am Emb Bern 363, 5 December, CONFIDENTIAL) 
Prime Minister Williams of Trinidad. Tobago. gave a 
"very chilly" reception on 4 December to a visiting Cuban 
official, Robert Gerardo Sanchez, commerci:al officer in the 
Cuban Consulate in Kingston. A Foreign Ministry official in­
formed the US Embassy that. Williams was annoyed that Sanchez 
had presumed on a scant acquaintance with him to visit Port­
of-Spain, despite advice from the government of Trinidad 
that such a visit would be inopportune. Reportedly, the 
·prime minister turned down Sanchez' suggestion for trade 
talks, on the grounds of Cuba's involvement with Venezuela 
and Trinidad, Tobago's.delicate and difficult relations 
with Caracas. He did not, however, close the door on such 
discussions at some appropriate time in the future. The 
government of Trinidad expects Sanchez to leave the country 
soon. (Am Emb, Port of Spain:223, 5 December, CONFIDENTIAL) 
CUBAN SUPPORT OF EXTERNAL SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES:~~ /0 
. . In a message of 3 December, the( Chilean Embassv in/Ha:­
v~na\ reported to its· Foreign Ministrr- information~ it haa re­
cei~d from "reliable sources" in Cuba on Cuban efforts to 
ship weapons to Venezuela and other Latin American countries. 
-S-
TOP SECRET DINAR 
