13-00000 
... J 
Mr. John Pereira 
October 17, 1997 
Page2 
The Review Board has promised Congress that this work will be completed by 
September 1998. The Review Board also is obligated to keep Congress informed, on a 
monthly basis, of the steps it has taken to ensure completion of this goal. 1/f e now heed 
to keep Congress informed of any difficulties that we are facing in the course of . _._ .. 
completing this work. 
As you know, the JFK Act in many ways imposed difficult obligations. For example, it 
required the CIA (and other agencies) to complete its review and transfer.of records to 
NARA within 300 days of the time the statute was enacted in 1993. Althouglt-,this 
statutory deadline was not met, we would like to make it as clearv as we possibly c_an : 
that we intend to·.ensure that the goal to review and transfer all assassination records to 
NARA is accomplished during the lifetime of the Review Board. 
We have raised with you previously our concerns about whether the Agency has 
allocated sufficient resources to complete its Work on its assassinatio~ records by 
September 1, 1998. In a meeting at CIA headquarters on October 16, 1996, CIA 
Executive Director Nora Slatkin promised members of the Review Board that the CIA 
would devote whatever resources are necessary to complete the task. 
In order to ensure that this work is completed, the Review Board has developed a 
timetable for review of remaining CIA records. The CIA's Historical Review Group 
suggests that refinement of the timetable is necessary, but has of yet offered no specific 
changes. • 
In order to fulfill our responsibilities under the JFK Act and in order to honor our 
pledge to Congress, we believe that the following steps are necessary: 
First, we need to establish a reasonable but strict schedule for the CIA's review 
and release of records. The CIA must devote all of the resources necessary to 
review the records under this schedule. We believe that the only way to ensure 
that the CIA's work is completed is to adhere to such a schedule. 
Second, if the CIA has not completed its scheduled review by the proposed 
deadline, the Review Board will require that all CIA records identified as 
assassination reco~ds under the JFK Act be transferred forthwith to the National 
Archives regardless of whether they have been reviewed or processed by the 
CIA pursuant to the Board's authority at 44 U.S.C. § 2107.7G)(B). 
