13-00000 
~BE."li2EJ' 
SUBJECT: The JFK Declassification Experience 
learned to live~with (See Appendix A for the Assassination 
Records Review Board (ARRB) "Standards For Review'' and "Key 
Distinctions Between Those Under FOIA, Executive Order 12356 
and the JFK Act," with examples). 
3. (U) Finally, a Presidentially-appointed 
assassination review board (the ARRB) had the final say 
both on postponement and on relevance, subject only to a 
successful DCI appeal to the President. Although a few 
appeals were considered, particularly in the early period, 
none was made. • 
4. (U) The JFK·Act called for each agency to review 
and transfer its relevant material to NARA by 22 August 1993. 
Thus, a·. significant set of materials was transferred frqm 
CIA to NARA in 1993, reflecting CIA's then-current judgment 
on the redactions permittetj. Subsequent Board reviews and 
ARRB staff inquiries resulted in the addition of material to 
that original set of documents, as well as adjustments to the 
original set, to reflect Board actions - generally to release 
more information. Although many documents have been adjusted 
or added to the collection, requiring substantive HRG and DO 
reviews as well as administrative actions, the net number of 
pages in CIA's JFK Collection at NARA is about 260,000. 
SIZE AND NATURE OF THE COLLECTION 
5. (U) The material requiring line-by-line review 
incl~ded 17 boxes called the Oswald 201 File; 64 boxes called 
the "Segregated Collection" File, containing those documents 
made .. available to the House Subcommittee on Assassinations 
(HSCA) during its 1978 investigation; 23 boxes of HSCA 
referrals - staff notes in longhand and type, draft sections 
of the HSCA final report, correspondence on HSCA letterhead, 
trip reports - anything referred to us by the National 
Archives (NARA) for review of possible Agency equities; 
19 boxes called "The Holmes Collection";_ a reference 
collection used by the then-DO focal point for FOIA and other 
.JFK queries, Russell Holmes; Presidential libraries material, 
Church Committee and Rockefeller Commission testimonies, 
National ~ecurity Council papers, PFIAB Minutes and other 
Community papers made availabl.e through the ARRB staff; and 
13 boxes called "Miscellaneous," including follow-on 
questions from the ARRB, a previously overlooked Latin 
American Division working file, DCI calendars, some DI/OCI 
2 
~ 
