87D 
.( 5) 
[ 
( 6) 
NW 38321 • Docld:32989529 
l 
Sl!:CURI'.l:Y IHV}~S'.J: •. ·,O:J·fS 
Title 5, USC,§§ llBp, llBq, and llBr (Public Law i30, 84th 
Congress, . ,)rovcHl 9·-9-S5), p1·ohi"bits Government employrn0nt o;:· 
persor;s wk :-1.re disloyal or who assert the right to Gtril-::c 
agains'L th,· Governmout. • The law provides that an individual 
a.ccept:i.rig. off ice or employment in the Government of the U. S. 
shall, •. : thin 60 days, execute an aff:i.davi t cert:i.fying that r.<; 
doei: no· advocate the violent overthrow of the U. S. Goverru~,;:.n.t, 
etc. T':.a execution of a false affid?.vit constitutcn a fraud 
on, or attempt to defraud, the Gov-e:pnnf,nt within the purview 
pf Title 5, use, § 93, so as to authorize Special Agents of tLe 
Bureau to administer oaths in inYestigat:tons arir.ini£ out of i:his 
law. Alleged violations of this law called to your att-0nt~on 
should be furnished to the Bureau promptly aid no investigation 
should be ini tia,ted on the basis of c.r.r:ipla:i.nt s 1•ec; t'i. ved wi tho:tt 
prior Bureau antho:city. Refer to sect.ion[69Jf)of this manual 
e1rtitled n~ecnTity of Government Employees - Fraud Against the 
Govcrrune.,--: '
1 
f~·r procedures to be followed regarding possiblE:. 
violatio1 .: of this law discovered or received in connection with 
security of Government employees investigat:i.ons. 
Title 18, use,§ 1001, -includes possible fraud against the 
Government violations wherein there arc conceaJ.mants or fals:.fi­
cations relating to subv~rsive information. These violations 
must be presented t:> the Department by the Bureau :for a prose­
cutive opinion rather than being pre~ented locally to USAs. 
"They ordinarily involve the execution of u. s. Govern..-nent fo::-:ns. 
Common violators are employees of private concerns having 
Govermnent contracts who execute Government forms required for 
clearance for access to classified information. 
Upo·n receipt of information indicating a violation of this' type, 
investigation under the "Sepurity Matter - Fraud Against the 
Govern,-nent" character should be initiated and the Bureau immedi­
ately advised. The Department has advised th?:t. it is essenti~.l, 
to establish juriGdicti6n, ~: prove that the form was presented 
to a Government agency for . tion or determination. This, there­
fore, should be the first i :Jstigative ·step. If the form.was 
not presented to a Governmeut- agency, no further investigation 
should be made and the Bureau so advised. In this case, however, 
remain alert· for information the form is later presented to 
Government agency. The fact subject actually signed the forn 
must be· established by .testimony of ·witnesses to-the si_g:::udure, 
~andwriting examination, or other conclusive evidence. The 
o~iginai of the form must.be located. S~urces that furnis~e~ 
pertinent information c-oncerning subject during previous :investi­
gations and other potential witnesses should be thoroughly inter~ 
viewed :to determine the basis for each item 9f pertinent infcr-:­
mation furnished and to obtain the ident.i ties of other poterttial 
.witnesses; Where affiliation with subversive organizations is 
involved, interview individuals who were r.iembers of same units 
of these organizations as subject for indicia, of his mcr.1bors:~ip, 
such as attendance at closed meetings, payment of dues, holding 
of office, etc. If possible, develop evidence to supn~~nt· 
pertinent information furnished by. current inf-ormants. Obta::.n. 
prior Bureau authority to interview the sub~ect. Interview sub­
ject and potential witnesses furnishing. pertinent informatioa 
under oath and obtain sworn signed. statement~ if possible. An 
exdeption may be made when interviewing established sources, such 
as current informants, if oath and/or signed stateraents not ~on­
sidered desirable under circunstances. Be guided by instruc~ious 
in section 6b, (7), below when interviewing potential witnesses 
with subversive backgrounds. 
597 20 
4-10-59 
