14-00000 
versus area division prer~gative in the conduct of operations. 
Noting t·hat thei;-e might have been some imme.diate reasons .for the 
CI Staff to take on operational aspect~ in its efforts to increase 
CI activity, nevertheless it concluded these reasons were not 
necessarily based on the best ·operational and O!ganizational pro­
cedures and methods. 'The normal staff functions, the survey 
opined, could be carried out effectively with a much smaller but 
highly experienced staff whos.e • impact and counsel would more 
favorably be received by the operating elements of the DD/P. The 
team also concluded that there had been insufficient attention 
given to penetrating hostile intelligence organizations and 
recommended that: 
"Chief, CI direct the efforts of the CI Staff:· toward 
~he development of programs for the aggressive pursuit of 
penetration activity against hostile intelligence ser~ices.'' 
In::a forward to the report, the ,.,,"inspector Gen~ral of_. the day, 
Lyman ✓Kirkpatrick, directed special attention to one part:icular -
aspect of CI work. 
"The vSpecial Investigation Division assists the 
Office of Security in using DD/P assets to trace leads 
concerning CIA employees. This is probably a neces$ary 
assist to the Office of Security but should be handled 
with the utmost of.discretion and secuTity. It would be 
very seriously damaging to the efforts· of the CI Staff 
if it ever became known that it· was engaged ·in any 
activities involving· CIA employees. An analgous situation 
is the stir caused by the occasional misimpression created 
abroad that CIA Teports on:other·US Government employees. 
Thus within CIA the. Office of Security must be the sole 
unit to bear the stigma of being concerned with fellow 
employees." 
Unfortunately this sensible warni_~g was not he·e·ded by CI 
Staff management, OT by the management of the Clandestine Service 
as a whole for that matter. Instead, in.t~e mid~l960s rhe CI, 
Staff, with SIG in the vanguard, hypnotized by the all~gations 
✓ .J 
of Golitsyn, launched HON~TOL - the active invest~gation 0£. 
numerous Agency employees (five in particular) - with generally 
S E C R E T 
