14-00000 
21 
tion, it is important to emphasize and clarify the legislative intent 
and importance of particular provisions of the Act. 
Defining assassination records 
"Assassination records" are defined in Section 3. The definition 
of "assassination records" is a threshold consideration for the suc­
cessful implementation of the Act. Its scope will be the barometer 
of public confidence in the release of assassination records. While 
the records of past presidential commissions and congressional 
committees established to investigate the assassination of President 
Kennedy are included as assassinatio~ records under this Act, it is 
intended and emphasized that the search and disclosure of records 
under this Act must go _beyond those records. While such records 
are valuable, they reflect the views, theories, political constraints, 
and prejudices of past inquiries. Proper implementation of this Act 
and providing the American public with the opportunity to judge 
the surrounding history of the assassination for themselves, re­
quires including not only, but going beyond, the records of the 
Warren and Rockefeller Commissions, and the Church and House 
Select Assassination Committees. 
The term "assassination record" was not more specifically de-. 
fined by the Committee because to do · so before more is kriown 
about the universe of records would have been premature, and 
would have further injected the government between the records 
and the American public. There is a sufficient volume of known as­
sassination records to organize and review at the outset. However, 
it is intended that the Review Board issue guidance to assist in ar­
ticulating the scope or universe of assassination records as govern­
ment offices and the Review Board undertakes their responsibil­
ities. Such guidance will be valuable notwithstanding the fact that 
government offices will begin to organize and review their records _ , 
before the Review Board is established. Government offices are re- • 
quired to begin the review and disclosure of records upon enact­
ment to expedite public access to the many records which do not 
require additional review or postponement. However, the ultimate 
work of the Review Board will involve not only the review of 
records recommended for postponement, but requiring government 
offices to provide additional information and records, where appro­
priate. Guidance, especially that developed in consultation with the 
public, scholars, and affected government offices, will prove valua-
ble to ensure the fullest possible disclosure and create public confi­
dence in a working definition that was developed in an independ­
ent and open manner. 
Autopsy Records 
The Act specjfically e~cludes from the definition of ''assassi­
nation records" the autopsy records and copies or reproductions 
made from such records donated by the Kennedy family pursuant 
to a deed of gift• executed on October 29, 1966. These records in­
clude the autopsy photographs and X-rays of President Kennedy. 
The Committee believes that this exclusion is a sound policy. The 
Committee believes that there is a compelling justification for pro­
tecting the privacy of the Kennedy family from the unwarranted 
' 
