r 
' 
• 
\ 2 -
of any givon situation, evidences sound and objective judgment, 
·and works well under pressure. He writes lucidly, speaks 
articulately, -and exhibits a high degree of cost consciousness 
in -the use ot govornmont funds and property. His delegation ot 
• reap 0onsibiUt:r to others_ is meaningfu_l and well dollneated. • 
•· 5. Subject 'a pe~formance has been strong throughout tbe 
ra.Uns perlod. He liae given tho station purposeful dirocU011 
~D~ ·competent management a_nd as an effective supervisor wbo 
eomaands the lo.yalty and respect of those whom be·superYisea, be 
baa aucceeded.in obtaining a maximum effort from the station 
personnel. . He· .enjoys the confidence ot the Ambassador and other 
principal officers, of tho Embassy, aeveral of whoa have expreseed 
their appreciation of Jubject's work and commented on the value 
of the station's contribution to the functionlni ot the Embaas1. 
The fact that the Ambassador arrived in Madrid with definite 
prejudices regarding the Acency but was of quite another mind 
upon bts depart~ro la testimony to subJect'e Rkill and tact. 
e. Subject baa conducted the Agency's liaison with the 
Spanish services most competently, as evidenced-by the rela­
tionship he eatabUehed with Captain General Munoz Grandee., bts 
ability to persuade the·Ai:14 to undertake sensitive operations 
in Cuba., and the fact tha.t this liaison did not suffer tollowtng 
tho a t·taak on the Spanish ship "Sierra .A.-anzav.u". IIRrked 
progress bu·been achieved in joint CE and CP·operatione, and 
aubJect bas developed QUANTUM/30 to the point wherein the 
lattar's collaboration tar exceeds the cooperation normally 
expected in an offic·1a1 .Ha!°sQn relationship. 
7. In addition to hia considerable executive and liaison 
duties, subject has carried out the previously cited opera­
tional assignments with marked ability. He is a convincing and 
persuasive agent handler, and his operational reporting is 
prompt and thorough. 
8. The only criticism I would make ot subject ts that I 
believe tbo station should bemlting a g.roater effort to develop 
internal assets who will be nble to report on and influence 
development& in Spain followinc the departure of Franco. 
OVERALL PERJ'ORIIANCE IN CURRENT POSITION: 
C<MIENT'J OF REVIEWOO OFFICIAL:. . . -CONCUR 
