( 
( 
[ 
[ 
[ 
PART II 
SECTIOK 6. PUBLICATIONS, PRESS, AND PUBLIC CONTACTS 
Included in the ind·ex may be individuals in Government, business; or 
industryo Do not include l·aw enforcement officers unless they are un­
usually cooperative or furnish special types of information. .Set up 
_the index alphabetically, geographically by states and towns; alpha­
betically in the subdivisions; and alph~betically by AEA facility, or 
by type of information. 
Maintain the index where it is available to all Agents. An iridex may 
be maintained in resident agencies having approved office space which 
can be securely looked and having looked cabinets in which records can 
be kept. Source of information cards may be kept by resident Agents 
not ha:ving approved office space but working out of their homes when­
ever the SAC feels it is practicable to do so and the cards will be 
securely retained in a looked, steel fil~ cabinet. Cards shall be 
kept as in the field office. • The cards shall pertain only to the 
territory oo~ered; under such circumstances there shall be no duplicate 
cards in the field office. Cards are to be deleted when obsolete 0 
Index sources of information in the general office index; do not remove 
such index cards at the time obsolete cards are deleted from the special 
source of information index.· 
2. Fil-es 
Do not make up files or write memoranda for the preparation of sources 
of informationo 
3, Security and racial sources ·of information 
Every four months a letter of justification should be submitted to 
the Bureau requesting continuation of payments to security and racial 
sources of information. (For security sources of information,]see 
section 1O7N, item 3b, volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions for 
form to be followed;[for racial sources of information, see section 13OG, 
i t_em .2b., volume IV, of the Manual of Instructions.] If the security 
or racial source of information ·is not being paid on Bureau authorization 
and is being used regularly, the Agent handling the source of information 
must dictate a memorandum to the SAC f·or the file containing the same 
certification as to sta_bility and reliability as required by payment 
letters. _ 
4. Gifts should not be given to .~ources iince such actions might be 
misconstrued. 
L. SAG CONTACTS 
lo SAC contacts are defined as persons wha, becaus~ o± their positions, can 
and do render extraordinary service, or provide unusual and highly 
valuable assistance to the FBI upon the request of the SAC. 
2o A complete file review must be made on each contact (file review· on 
spouses, near relatives, or business not necessary ~nless special 
circumstances prevail) o . • 
3. SAC contacts must be approved by the Bureau. Request this approval 
by letter to the Bureau captione.d 11 ___ , SAC Contact." Mark the 
letter for the attention of the Crime Records Division. 
Use thi following subheadings in the order given: 
a. Description of proposed SAC contact 
b. Services this contact can provide 
c. Past relations with field office 
d. Thumbnail sketch of known history 
e. Derogatory information 
f. Recommendation of SAC 
Submit an original and two copies, but one of the copies should consist 
only of the first page of the coIP.munication.. If the SAC contact is 
approved, the single-page copy is to be stamped approved and returned 
to the fie1d. If the contact is not approved, a letter is to be submi t·l::ed 
to the field stating wh.y the individual cannot be used as an SAC contact. 
SACs must be alert in recommending SAC contacts that they are not pro­
posing individuals who because .of business connections or persona1 
7 
3-29-65 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 985 
