-.,,.. ..... ., . 
6 ::::; G R E 'f 
10 February 1976 
MEl-iORANDUr-1 FOR: The Review Staff 
ATTENTIOa: Hr. Walter Elder 
VIA: SA/DDO 
(;fdj l l !Si$ 
SUBJECT: 
REFEREHCE: 
SSC Request 
RS 76-0083/A (14 January 1976) ·c ~It 
1. Re question number 1 of reference: Attachment "A" contains 
the names of Agency personnel who were in i:lexico City, Mexico, during 
the period 1 S~ptember 1963 through 31 December 1963 and who are still 
on duty. Attachment "B" contains the names of Agency personnelwho 
were in Hexico City during this same period but are now retired or no 
longer on duty. It is understood that these attachments will be 
retained in the Headquarters building for use by the Committee Staff. 
I 2. Re question numbei 3(a) of reference: For your background, 
·the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) was a Cuban ~tudent 
exile entity founded in September 1960 as an anti-Communist fevolutionary 
organizatio~ dedicated to the overthrow of the Castro regime~ The parent 
organization of the DRE was the Directorio Revolucionario (DR), a revolu­
tionary organization of Cuban students opposed to t~e BatistJ iegime 
which actively joined the Castro forces by organizing a gueriilla move-
ment which contributed greatly to tl1e collapse of the Batista regime; 
The Castro government, themselves of student origin, recognized the DR 
power and by-passed them politically by forming the new regime without 
their participation. The original DR became Communist controlled and 
directed. While the Agency had no role in the founding, the DRE was an 
entity used by the CIA as a unilateral asset in pursuing U.S. policy 
objectives. CIA support to the DRE ceased on JO September 1966 and formally 
terminated on 1 January 1967. At that time DRE file~ were reviewed and 
material dealing with CIA support and operations were either destroyed 
or turned over the JMWAVE Station. The DRE was expected to continue as 
an organizational entity and continue its activities independent of CIA. 
3. • The DRE files of both Station .HIWAVE and Headquarters that are 
available have been reviewed and Lee Harvey Oswald's name does not appear 
in these files. WAVE cable 8049 (in_ 66782) of 22 November 1963, states 
in the third sentence, "according MISPELL files, Oswald", undoubtedly 
refers to the DRE·files maintained iri the DRE office in Miami, Florida. 
E2 HIPDET 
8 E O R E T CL BY 009360 
' i 
c:.;;., -
.... • ...... : . . ... :.•. ..... ';. 
~~-: 
--
