[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
[ 
\ ~ 
l07K-L SECTION 107 •• CURITY INFORtIA.NTS A!ID CONFID .• UL SOURCES. 
L. 
9. Us•:· of informant by Department - filing correspondence re 
Fr;:m time to time, Department exprosses interest in using particular ( 
inf.:rrmant fo;: testifying when he becomes a-vailable as witness. Place ·_ 
co;;--:·.es of all correspondence of this type in informant's file. 
Occ;.;.sionally such correspondence may be -voluminous and apply t-o more 
than one informant. In those cases, sulTII!'~rize information concerning 
each informant and place summary in appropriate fileo 
10. ?orn: FD-238 
:!!'brrn. FD-238 (printed on pink paper} is used in security informant and · 
pot.<!ntial security informant files in nature of table of content:; or 
ir.(1ex to shovr vrhere in. :file particular data can be found. This form is 
to be kept as top document in informant file and is not to be serialized. 
If particular section of form is not applicable, note such thereon. 
J.l. Bulky material submitted by informa.n·I; 
Where inform2.nt or source submits bulky material other than statement 
and same pertains to specific in-vestigative matter, bulky material may· 
be :;:iJ.ed in investigative case file, together vri th copy of form FD.:..306 
or channelizing memorandum. File original form FD-306 or ·channelizing 
memorandum •in subfile of informant or source and note thereon file and 
serial number where bulky material is located. 
PAYMENTS TO IID' ORY.i.!\.NTS 
1. No gifts to inf·ormants 
a. Gifts should not be given to informants. 
b. Relationship between Agents and informants shall be maintained on 
businesslike basis. 
c. Investigati-ve employees must not approach, directly or indirectly, 
representati-ves of companies, private industries, or insurance 
companies and request assistance regarding payments of .money, gifts• 
or products of such companies to informants. 
2. SAC authority 
a. When deemed necessary and expedient to expend money to develop in­
dividual as informant to obtain information concerning security 
matters which is not otherwise obtainable or to advance expense money ( 
to obtain such information, SAC may approve payments up to $400 a,~d 
totaling not more than $400 on a c.o.d. basis regardless of number 
of payments. This applies only to indi-viduals who have neve~ been 
regularly paid for services or expenses on Bureau authorization. 
b. Individual who is paid on SAC authority should not be described in 
correspondence as informant o:!:' source who is being paid on a "regular 
basis II or on "Bureau authorization. 11 
c. Blue slip :::-eclaiming payments authorized by SAC must cl-early and 
accurately explain circumstances and ,~umma.rize informati·on obtained 
so Bureau will be in posi ti·on to pass intelligently on such matters. 
d. Prior Bu=-ea.u authority must be obtained to wAke any additional payment 
tq individual who has received payments totaling $400. Once individual 
has been paid $400 and it appears he will furnish information on 
regular basis, recommendation should be made to Bureau to pay him on 
»reiular basis. 11 
[e. All newly developed security informants ·are .to be.paid under SAC 
authority for the first six months unless unusual circumstances 
exist. If additional funds under SAC authority are necessary during 
this period, submit request accompanied by detailed justifi~ation of 
past expenditures.] 
3. Payments on a regular basis - Bureau authority 
a. To pay anyone on a regular basis, obtain specific Bureau authorization. 
b_- In requesting this authorization, use form FD-401: 
{1) Membership 
Lis·!; current membership and .position held in any subversive 
group. 
(2) Amount paid for services and expenses 
List by tho month or week. Initial justification letter should 
set forth amount, if any, e-ver paid under SAC authority. 
(3) Number of activities and .persons on whom coverage is· provided 
List number and type of meetings attended and other acti-vi ties ( 
and number· of persons on whom informant furnishes co-verage and 
their importance. 
14 
9-13-72 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1161 
