., ' 
( 
d. 
. [ 
( 
slf&1f 87 • • SECURITY INYES TIGATION. 87E 
(c} When all logical leads have been exhausted in case of 
missing important functionary, consider requesting Bureau 
authority to circularize all field offices with subject's 
photograph and back~round information. 
Individuals traveling abroad {Also see section 105G, voluma IV, of 
this manual.) . • 
Set forth below are steps to be taken when information is received 
that subject in one of following categories intends to travel abroad 
or has already de parted this country for foreign travel: subjeqt of 
current security investigation, subject in priorities I and II 
of security index, past security subjects who may be in 
underground capacity, or subject concerning whom there is . 
current information indicating need for foreign coverage. · 
(1) Immediately advise Bureau by LHM available details concerning 
travel, including places and dates of departure and intended 
return, destination and itinerary, purpose of trip, name· u.nier 
which passport was issued, number of passport, and issuing 
office, if known. Include full description of· subject and all_ 
·aliases (in case of Chinese and Korean subjects, include Chinese 
telegraphic code or Korean telegraphic code numbers). .Als·o 
include concise resume of available subversive data regarding 
·subject. Do not delay advising Bureau of actual or intended 
travel while developing details of travel as time is of essence. 
(2) Set out lead for WFO to check records of Passport Office, Depart­
ment of State; but do not limit efforts to deyelop pertinen·!; 
information to such check. 
(3) Information concerning subject's proposed travel abroad, including 
information concerning subversive activities, is f;urnished 
Department of State, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and 
legal attaches. If travel is in area covered by legal attache, 
forward sufficient copies of LHM to enable dissemination of 
three copies to each legal attache involved. For each of these 
legal attaches, forward one photograph of subject, if available. 
If stops are. to be placed with security services abroad, cover 
letter should so indicate. Set forth requests for inve stigi..tion 
abroad on separate numbered page, captioned "Leads," at end of Lln1. 
Request should not refer to legal attache or request investigation 
by particular agency abroad. 
(4) Subsequent report in individual case should contain details 
regarding subject's travel. In nonsecurity index cases where 
LHHs are submitted, communication transmitting data regarding 
travel should indicate whether investigation is being initiated and, 
if not, why. • 
(5) Set forth below are steps to be taken when information is received 
that one of following is forming tour group for foreign trave.l: 
organization of investigative interest to Bu~eau or subje9t in one 
of categories described in first paragraph under item d above. 
(a) Advise appropriate offices, under caption of tour group or 
organization, identities of individuals participating in 
tour, and furnish Bureau LHMs for State Department, CI.A., 
and appropriate legal attaches. Include all readily available 
information pertaining to tour, such as itinerary, pertinent 
dates, names and addresses of participants, and thumbnail 
sketch of organization or individual sponsoring tour. • 
{b) Offices should immediately identify participants and submit 
LHNs on those in one. of categories described in first para­
graph under item d above. Refer to L!IM previously prepared 
under caption of tour group or organization. Submi.t letter 
to Bureau under caption of tour group or organization Jisting 
individuals within territory participating in tour on whom 
there is no subversive information. 
NW 38321 Docld:32989529 Page 1954 25 
5-13-71 
l l i 
