-2-
In the summer of 1960, there was a great deal of concern 
at the highest l~vels in the United States government about the 
... :lrt 
role of Patrice Lumurnba in the Congo. ·k Lumumba, who s~rved briefly 
as Premier-of the newly independent nation, was viewed with alarm 
by United States foreign policymakers because of what they perceived 
as his magnetic public appeal and his leanings toward the Soviet 
Union. 
Uncier the leadership of Lumumba and the new President, 
Joseph Kasavubu, the Congo_ declared its independence from Belgium 
on J,une 30, 1960. In the turbulent month that followed, Lumumba 
threatene_d to invite Soviet troops to hasten the withdrawal of 
Belgian armed forces. The United Nations Security Council re­
quested a Belgian withdrawal and dispatched a neutral force 
to the Congo to preserve order. In late July, Lumumba visited 
Washington and received pledges of economi~ aid from.Secretary 
of State Christian Herter. At the beginning of September, 
Soviet airplanes, trucks, and technicians were arriving in the 
province where Lumumba's support was strongest. 
By mid-September, Lumumba sought protection from the UN 
guard in Leopoldville after losing a struggle over the l~adership 
of the government with Kasavubu and Joseph Mobutu, Chief of Staff 
of the Congolese armed forces. In .early December, Mobutu's troops 
captured Lumumba while he was traveling toward his stronghold at 
~•r Since the period in which the events under ·examination -occurred, 
the names of many geographical units and .governmental institutions 
have changed. For instance, the nation formerly known as the Republic 
of the Congo is now the Republic of Zaire and the present capital city, 
Kinshasa, was known then as Leopoldville. For tl;ie sake of clarity in 
dealing with many of the documents involved in this section, the names 
used in th~s report are those which applied in the early 1960's, con­
temporaneously with the events under consideration. 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 248 
