87D 
[ 
. NW 31B21 Docld:32989529 
.-.;TION 87., SECURITY INV!:f.Vi.'TGA'1 
i ·-· 
Tho alphabetical card will be in tho nature of a 
control card. Should the original or geographical 
card be withdrawn from the geographical section for 
apprehension purposes, an approprjate notation .shall 
be made on thl, alphabe·!;ical card for the purpose o:f 
'administrative ha~dling. 
III. Special section 
Security indE:x carcls of indi viduali; coming within the 
categories cn 1lI!lerated below ::;h:;,ll be retained in the 
special section of the security indE:x lor the reasons 
statedo This section shall be broken down into[sevon] 
subsections headed by tabs dcslgnating the categories. 
The soecial sec-Lion is to be maintained iu i1ccordancc 
;with the following ir!Structions: 
(A) Espionage subjects 
When apprehension. of the subject will destroy 
chances of penetration ancl control of an _operating 
espionage parallel or would destroy knoHn chances 
of penetration and control of a "sleeper" parallel 
(B) U. S. Government employees 
In order that the identities of t~c 9ubjects so 
employed can be readily determin~. :.!.nd specifh~ 
considera.tion given to each such ~ .. bject before 
apprehension is orde~ed 
(c} .. Atomic energy program employees 
Because their ~.pprehens ion must be cleared "with 
the A·l;omic Energy Commission representatives to 
·avoid interference· with atomib energy work 
(D) Foreign goverrunE::nt employ~es . 
So that individual consideration may be given to 
each individual on the basis of the relations then 
;xisting beineen the u. s. Government and the c~untry 
by which the subject is employed 
(E) United Nations Secretariat and other internatior-al 
organization employees 
Because of the fact that they are employees· of such. 
organizations, regardless of their na~ ~Dal origin, 
and the State Department must be not:i'. ,·.·.,a· after 
such apprehensions tak.e place. In this category 
would be citizens of the Ue S. and those irr.migrants 
or stateless.persons not holding diplomatic visas Y 
and.who do not have protection of t~e International , 
Organization Immuni ti?S Act. ·.c-
(F) Pro-Tito individuals ···i 
Because such individuals, although.pro-Marxist- ~ 
.. Leninist, adhere to th.e Ti to form of communism as j. 
opposed to the Si :i.lin or Russian form of cormnunism. ~~ 
.In light of thr;; • .. ,1rrent international situation, it t 
is not possiblt..· • -: predict whether Ti to would become -,. 
aligned" with Rutl.": 3. in the e,ren·t of open hostilities ;.: _:r or. would align hi,·.self on the side of the U. S. and . ·f 
its allies •. Therefore·; Tito adh_erents in the security .. ·,., 
index must receive consideration for apprehension .j 
~eparate from others included in the index. ;;it 
:-·:?; 
·:fi • Supporters of the Ti to· government are not con­
sidered t-0 include members of any communist splinter 
groups who from time to time make s tatemeni;s in 
support of Tito. but should include ouly thoie 
individuals, particularly those of Yugoslav birth 
or desce·nt, whose support .of Tito is clear ahd • 
52 
10.:..15-62 
~ 
1· :i 
:li. ,_. 
! :f 
t 
;~· 
:~: 
·l 
~l ,,,:;;, 
't 
1 !! 
