:,. .. -·. 
. ( 
) 
SECTJ •• , • SECURITY IIIVESTIGA.TIONS 
v:i:,r. Maintenance of key figure lis•t 
(A) Each office must maintain current list of key 
figures including top functionaries. List may 
be kept by simple list system, by maintaining 
a file wterein all addit~ons and delejions to 
87D 
the lis~ are reported, or by a card index system. 
Maintain key figure list separate from· security 
index. 
(B). Key figures should retain their designation not­
withstanding their departure for foreign travel 
or other circumstances requiring temporary dis­
continuance of investigation. 
(c) Should a key figure become subject of a security 
of Government employees investigation, his name 
should continue to appear on the key figure list, 
but the investigation shall proceed in accordance 
... •• ~ - •• :.:- +~· with e·Xist:fng instructions governing SGE cases . 
. VIII. [Deleted] 
Top functionaries 
(a) Definition 
A top functionary is an individual, sither a member or a 
nonmember of the Communist Party, to wliom, because of his. 
importance, ·it is ~a ·essary to give continuous investigative 
attention in order • • keep abreast• of coromuni sm on a 
national basis in -·:. U. S. Mecessarily, such an individual 
:_."would be on a high i:,.:ilicy level in the movement •• 
. The term "top functionary" is not. to be construed as re­
quiring that individ~als in this category must·actual~y 
hold ~ffioial positions in party organizations but shall 
be given a broad enough construction to include others who 
are of equal importance because of their influence in the 
movement it self, or their posi ti·on and activities outside 
the party in labor, front, or similar organizations or 
mo-vement s. 
(b) lfanner of designation 
Prior Bureau authority necess~~y to designate a subject 
as a top functionary. Submit ,-uoh recommendation to Bureau 
by letter containing reasons for the recommendation. Bureau 
desires to be very seleottve in this matter and to concentrate 
on individuals who, on a national basis, are the guiding hands 
in the com::n.unist movement. 
69 
5-12-61 
NW 38321 Docld:329895'29 838 • 
