WFO l0.5-8906 
He was issued Passport Number 36093, San Francisco series, 
on 2/25/55. This passport is not valid for travel to Albania,. Bulgaria, 
China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary-, Poland, Rumania, or the USSR unless 
specifically endorsed by the Department of State as being valid for 
such travel. 
i 
i , I 
i 
A letter dated 2/23/55 on the letterhead of the 0 NationJ1 68 
Post Street, San Francisco, California, signed by JAFFE as West Coast 
Correspondent addressed to the Passport Agency, Department of State, 
San Francisco., California, relates that his Far EastE/m trip will be 
.made as a working journalist; that the trip m.ll last approximately 
three months and he will visit such countries as Japan, Burma, Pakistan, ~) 
India, Indonesia, Hong Kong, and Thailand. 
l 
j 
I 
l 
A letter dated 2/25/55 on the above letterhead, signed by 
JAFFE, as West Coast Bureau Chief, addressed to Mr. HARRY H. BOLDS, 
Passport Agency, San Francisco, California, relates that as the t1Nation11 
maga~ine1 s West Coast Bureau Chief he is classed as a member of the 
Publica1ions Board of Editors. Thus, he is in the position of an 
editorial executive. He wrote further that as he explained to BOLDS 
those in authority at-their home office in New York are on vacation. 
While in the employ of Time, Incorporated, n11fe 11 magazine, he made a 
trip to Asia in an editorial capacity; that BOLDS' New York office asked 
him to write a letter on 11Life 11stationery- stating the purpose of his _ -~,d,r 
tr:i.p abroad though at the time he was maldng the journey for some other ... , , ,,,,'Jl,""' • 
, -·f publications. He explained this and the fact that he was only a reporter,,_..~•·· • 
This, JAFFE wrote, seemed to make no difference as long as the New Yo.,r.k:/', tc.J' : 
agency had a letter on file. ,,.-~· ~ ! 
' All application for amendment of Passport Number 36093, San j 
Francisco series, as above, dated June 22, 1955, and signed by JAFFE, l 
Imperial Hotel, New Delhi., Ir}.dia, was fol:\varded by the American Consular ·! 
Service at New Delhi to the Department of State, Washington, D. c., for ! j 
consideration and decisi9n. The application reflects that JAFFE desired i 
his passport be made valid for travel in Connnunist Chinao In tne (~) j
1 application he referred to an attached supplemental statement. _ 
The supplemental statement-is dated 6/22/55 and is on tbe 
letterhead of Hotel Imperla~, NewDelm.. It shows the following: 
-3-
NW 38326 Docld:31989704 Page 136 
l 
Cc. j 
