13-00000 
. 
~m$~OOffllllflID~I~ 
LJ:9 ;:~~ P.-G: 4; . 
a successful criminal lawyer and 
tor oi the Committee, in a modern 
bui:ding a few blocks from the White 
3. Fenster .... ald is a small. dapper man 
1 .~ir1 !::eard. Smith is a lean. intense 
smcLi:r. Sotn men appeared to be 
ir for:;es. 
·fore we ::,egin. •• 1 said. "I think I should 
0:1 th.:;.t : used to work for the CIA." 
:vc ru:-: a-::~css it often, the theory that 
1A ki:ia:: i<sr.nedy. It seams_ absurd 
. and I d::;: ::aiie..-e it. I worked there 
ea years ar.o .,ever saw or heard any- • 
suggas~i,;; !he Age:icy was involved 
assass;~a~,on. I never met anyone 
I thou~:-: ::apab!e of doirig it. s::11. 
! lear!1e::: through bitter experience of 
1spicior> \-.!"l;c:, attaches to former in­
mce of;;:e•s. Epidemics of paranoia 
o accor:-::a"'y us throug:i life. I tho1.1ght 
·tter get :r.at issue ou! of the way. 
ith anc Fensterwald exchanged 
es and s:-:-:iied. Fensterwald told me 
,ey did net :o;ecessarily believe the CIA 
,sin thee!";. and they certainly didn't 
tal~ir,g :o a !ormar Agency employee. 
ieved. I !::egan to outline rrt'/ project. 
id if they had heard of the PSE. Both 
Mere di:-:ily aware of it. I described 
?vice and started to detail the way it 
be used as a research tool. They im­
:1tefy understood what I was p,oposing 
~ere tremendously enthusiastic. Yes. 
;aid. there were many key statements 
,e somewhere, and they would be glad 
mpite specific references for me. 
ermore, they could, in some cases, 
je me with the tape. They said they 
I be in contact when they had some­
for me. 
ite I was waiting, I experimented with 
5E. I teiephoned a friend and told him 
the devi::e. I asked if he was willing 
1y a little game to test It out. and he 
id. He picked a number balween one 
3n, f-asked him, "Is the number one?" 
e number two?" and so on, and he 
ered no each time. I recorded his 
nses. ran them through the PSE and 
j him back. The number he picked, 
him, was five. 
was dumbfounded. He had not heard . 
PSE and had thought I might be con­
,g some elaborate joke at his expense. 
hen I called back and correctly iden­
the number he had'picked, he realized 
serious. And he was shocked. 
layed the same game several times 
,:hers and did not always have similar 
!ss. With Bernard Fensterwald, I was 
,nly to narrow the answer down to two 
iers. o!'le of which tumed out to be car-
PENTHOUSE 
-··---- ·- ·-----··1 - -- .,,, 
problem with this game is that the player 
knows !hat it is just that. He knows that .1 
know he ;s lying, it is a socially a.:ceptable 
situa!ion. a~a tnere is nothing at stake. The 
stress. wn,ch accompanies real deception 
is not always present. 
I nhtaine-:1 a tape recording from CBS 
News of a portion of a Sixty Minutes program 
in which Mike Wallace interviewed Clif:ord 
Irving. The interview took place during the 
height of the controversy, while Irving was 
still claiming to have gotten Howard 
Hughes' life story through a series of inter­
views with the billionaire. It was a consum­
mate job of lying. embellished with such 
convincing details as Irving's disagreement 
with his colleague Susskind about whether 
• Hughes kept his organic prur.es in a paper 
or a plastic bag. Sixty Minutes re-ran the 
segment after Irving's confession because 
the man's sheer virtuosity as a prevaricator 
was arnazing. I was interested in the inter­
view for a different reason: at the height 
of the· controversy, Irving had been given 
a polygraph examination arid had passed 
it. I wanted to see if the man who had beaten 
the conventional lie detector could also 
beat the PSE. 
I selected a point in the interview at which 
Mike Wallace suggested that Irving had not 
interviewed Howard Hughes, but had hap­
pened on some transcripts of Hughes· state­
ments; Irving asked how he could have hap­
pened on them. Wallace rejoined, "Where 
did you happen on those transcripts?" lrv­
i ng replied, "I got the transcripts from 
• Howard Hughes." I charted this statement 
on the PSE. 
It was a perfect example of total stress. 
horizontally blocked, with the smooth; 
"trimmed-hedge" wave form. Clifford Irving 
was a master liar, and he had beaten the 
polygraph, but he would have been caught 
by the PSE. 
A few days after- our first meeting, I 
received a call from Bob Smith. He had 
tumed up a few things for me. I visited him 
at the Committee's office in downtown 
Washington. He gave me a tape recording 
and a typewritten transcript. The recording 
was the Louis Lomax television program of 
Sunday, October 16, 1966. Wesley Liebler, 
a member of the Warren Commission's staff, 
was the guest. The transcript was of a CBS 
. News television program entitled The War­
ren Report, which had been broadcast in 
four one-hour segments on June 25. 26, 27 
and 28, 1967. 
I examined the transcript. The programs 
had been narrated by Walter Cronkite and 
other CBS newsmen. They reviewed every 
major point of controversy ttiat had been 
raised by the critics of the Warren Report, 
lnierviewing eyewitnesses. Dallas police­
men. medical examiners. ballistic special­
ists and many others who had some inside 
knowledge of the assassination of John F. 
Kennedy. For what I had in mind, it was 
a gold mine. f t9lephoned CBS and leametd 
that I could get a copy of the program's 
. ·.• .- "! 
Ne-xt 1. played the Lomax-Liebler tape . 
Apparently Mark Lane had beln on :an 
eariier Loma.,c program, and r!dvi Liebler • 
was on to rebut him. I didn't need the PSE 
to l\now that Liebler was stressed. He 
seemed very agitat9d, and his breathing 
audibly indicated his tension. H~ was angl) 
about the things Lane had said, the ques­
ti:>ns Loma>< was asking him. and the reac­
tion o_f the studio audien_ce. Given his highly 
emot!o~at sta~e. he did _not seem a very 
promising subJect for the PSE. Nonetheless, 
I decided to give it a try. • 
Charting a tape with the PSE is a long 
and tedious process. and it was impractical 
to chart the entire program, I ran some of 
Liebler's statements which were not in dis­
pute and discovered, as I had expected. 
a great deal of stress. He was pretty 
charged up. 
Most of the exchange between Liebler; 
Lomax and the audience was argumenta­
tive and did not de~I with specific factual 
points. I found two key statements by Lieb­
ler, though, and I charted them. 
• The first statement, iri response to a ques­
tion by Lomax, was. "I have no doubt about 
the conclusions of the [Warren) Report." . 
Plenty of stress was evident, but not much . 
more than in other statements. 
The second statement related to those 
Warren Commission documents which were 
not included in the .Report-they were 
locked up in the National Archives. Lomax 
asked Liebler if there was anything fo the 
documents which would alter Liebler's. 
opinion. Taken literally, it was a strange 
question, since Liebler had seen the docu­
ments and, if they would alter his opinion. 
they would already have done so. Lomax 
probab-ly meant to ask it the documents 
would conflict with the conclusions of the 
Warren Report. Whatever Liebler thought 
the question meant. he answered quickly, 
"Oh, none, none at all." The PSE showed 
much more stress here than during any of 
liebler's other statements. 
It was all pretty confused and fuzzy, and 
it didn't tell me more than I'd already known: 
Wesley Liebler was pretty upset when he 
appeared on the Louis Lomax program. I 
hoped that the CBS tapes would yield more 
enlightening results. . 
I finally received a call from ces·s 
Washington office saying the tapes had 
arrived. I broke a few traffic laws getting 
there to pick up the tapes and retuming 
to my apartment. I had already selected the 
points I wanted to check from the transcript 
of the program. I mounted the first tape on 
the recorder. ran it down to the first pojnt 
of interest. and tumed on the PSE. 
For the next three days and nights, I ~n 
charts. When I finished, I had a splitting 
headache, my kitchen floor was ankle deep 
in chart paper, but I had a much clearer 
idea of what did and did not happen .that 
day in Dallas. . • .. ; 
Before I describe my results. I feel that 
I must offer the reader a few commer,ts'.and 
~ .• 
r -· 4 
I. 
• 
