, Wo4-10301-1 oo 111 f 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992] 
-i,· : 
cr-p ~,- 199' r -• .... ~ ..... ~d. d ~!23PM A N0.279 P -:, . '-
. , .. •, 
S E C R E T 
The Special Inves-ti-ga·tions Gr.oup.-:O·f· ·the CI Sta££ (C-I/S-IG) 
Cl/SIG (the Special Inves·t~gations Group) did not exist 
prior to the establishment ·of the Cl Sta;ff in early 1955, Its 
major functions as descTibed in CS! No, 70~1 of March 1955 are 
much more modest than the functi.•ons ·ascribed to it in a wri te.-up 
by the Staff in early 1973, The 1955 description of functions 
is as follows: 
"Special Investigation Unit 
"Major Functions 
''Performs the CI investigation and analysis of any 
known or potential security leak in the Clandestine 
Services organization, whethe~ in headquarters or in 
the field, from the standpoint of its effect on (1) 
existing operations, and (2) the cover of personnel. 
In performing this function, maintains close working 
relations with the Security Office, the latter being 
primarily concerned in such cases from Agency 
sec~ity rather than an opeTational security stand­
poirrt," 
By 1973 the description of tasks which had been assigned 
to CI/SIG or which they had absorbed during the course of 
events over a period of nearly two decades provides a much 
... 
broader range of functions and responsibilities, They are listed 
as follows: 
''CI/Special Investigations Group 
"1. Conducts research into the long"range validity 
of CIA operations in terms of known or potential hostile 
capabilities, includi~g penetrations, and of Agency security. 
1'2. Carries out coordination with the Office of Security 
in such cases. 
113. Maintains and uses sensitive counterintelligence 
holdings, including certain Comint and defector materials, 
to match these against operational and personality data 
and thus to derive operational leads, 
"4.- Coordinates and coope:r.a.tes with counterintelligence 
and security elements of other departments and agencies of 
the USG to detect, tabulate, and take ~ounter-action against 
hostile plans or approaches abroad for the recruitment of 
American officials (American Targets Program). 
S E C R E T 
144 / 
I 
' 
' "" I 
i 
