13-00000 
04'/2~1-97 WED 15:55 1-A..l .::ui 7"4 U4:>t 
~----· ---
CIA's argument to protect employee names emphasizes a number of points. First, 
since· many empl.oyees are "under cover," the maintenance of that cover is critical to 
gathering.intelllgence. CIA argues that identification of a name can identify.the cover 
provider and Je_opardlze operations. Second, aHhough the majority of names are of 
retired CIA employees,·.CIAhas a confidenliality agreement with them and many do not 
want their past Agency affiliation· released .. The argument here Is that release may 
Jeopardize business relationshlps or personal safety". Such arguments _have already_ . 
• been presented to the Board. • Theirmertt can only be determined on a case-by-case 
basis. However, due-to-the volume of names in the JFK Collection, the lndMdual 
review and evaluation of each case would delay slgnfflcantly the review of documents 
and ultimately lead to less total lnformat1o·n becoming availabie to the pub lie. 
CIA has proposed, and the Review Board agrees, that CIA employee names b~ _treated 
in a manner similar to that applied to Source names: to postpone until 2017 those 
employee names that are of low public Interest or are of peripheral interest tp the 
assassination. It will be presumed that employee names will be released If their 
identities are important to the assassination story unless the-CIA Is able to provide 
specific Information of a potential hann of release. (CIA ~cknowledges the presumption 
of release unless specific evidence Is provided to the Review Board that harm to 
national security or to personal safety would result from the release of the employee 
name.) • • 
FBI "Foreign Counterintelligence" Postponements 
It is presumed that the FBI wfll, at least partially, cany over its post-appeal standards for · 
disclosing "FCI" activities targeting Communist-bloc nations. To the extent that the 
HSCA subjects reflect "FC1• activities against other nations that have not been 
addres$ed by th~ Review Board in the '"core• files, the FBI will be allowed to redact 
direct discussion of such-activities, unless the information In the proposed redaction 
meaningfully contributes to th.e understanding of the-assassination. • 
FBI and CIA Foreign Ualson Postponements 
. . \ 
The criteria for these postponements would not, In the abstract, depart significantly from 
the Review Board's current approach of releasing information received through liaison· · 
channels,·while protecting direct acknowledgment of the source of the Information. ·1n 
practice, however, the sta.ff would be more flexible in protectlng_text that Implies, 
although may not unambiguously state, that a foreign govemment Is the source of 
partJcular information. Nevertheless, the more significant the Information Is to any 
assassination-related Issue, the more Information would be released under these 
guidelines. 
. . '• :,..., . 
,., 
