DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING THE 
TRIALS OF INDIVIDUALS INDICTED 
FOR THEIR ACTIVITIES DURING THE 
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION 
(DNC) OF 1968 IN CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
. . . 
--- --
• 
CONFIDENTIAL -
• ·-As of 11: 40 p.·m~, 0Gtober 7, 1969, Special Agen·:s 
of the FBI -and officers of the Chicago· PD reported_ during 
the late afternoon and evening hours of' October 7,.1969, 
the areas of the Federal Building, Civic Center Building 
and parks which were sites ot all recent demonstration 
activities,appeared to be calm with no massing of. people, 
demonstrations, rallies, incidents or arrests.· -
Courtroom Activity 
On October 7, 1969, at 10:00 a.m. the·trial of.­
"The Conspiracy 8" was reconvened for the first time since 
being recessed during the late afternoon of' October ·3, 1969, 
in United StatesjDistrict Court,_ Chicago. The trial was 
resumed without incident o-r demonstrations. 
A brief recess_ was granted on motion· by· defense 
attorneys in midmorning, at which time associates of the 
_ defendants distributed a press re lease to report~rs which 
exptained in legal-form the position of defendants attorney~' 
·_ arguments opposing testimony of a Chicago PD surveillance • 
concerning defendant Jerry Rubin and his activities during 
the 1968 DNC at Chicago. Court reconvened· and trial proce•~ded 
without incident until n6on recess. 
- The trial reconvened after lunch recess at ·2: 14- p.m. 
on October 7, _ 1969, - at which t ~me defense at torney 5 again 
requested USDC Judge Julius_ Hoffmann to allow more visito~s- • 
in the court room. The court denied the request_ .noting 
that the space was taken and he intended to insure sufficient: 
·_ ,seating capacity for all members of the press. The trial • 
NW 3 
Page-1532 
proceeded with the introductioni of government witnesses _ 
- and cross-examination by defense attorneys. The defense_ 
again -raised the question of unauthorized police surveillances -
of-the conspiracy defendants duririg the 1968 DNC in.Chicago • 
as being a violation of their constitutional right/ of· privacy .. 
-'7'0NF IDE'T'T IAL 
