13-00000 SECRET 
SUBJECT: (U) . Identity of Human Sources 
been officially released and that are closely held within 
the Agency. This is done for his own protection and that of 
his family even though they live in the United States. CIA 
cannot, at this time, agree to the official release of 
Golitsyn's assumed new identities or for that matter of any 
defectors that appear to date in the collection. 
20. (S) CIA has noted that in some cases a source is 
identified by only a first name or a code name. Where CIA 
has been unable to identify any information about that 
individual or there is no other source revealing information 
that has been revealed in the JFK Collection, it would be 
possible to release that name. For example, in a few 
documents, the name "Tota" appears. To date, CIA has been 
unable to determine who this person is and there does not 
appear to be any further source revealing information in the 
collection. It is probably that "Tota" is just a code name 
or a street name known to his colleagues. As "Tota" is a 
common name, such a release would not threaten the 
particular individual or his family, and as the person can 
not be identified it would not seriously undermine the U.S. 
Government policy to protect intelligence sources. 
21. (U) The Agency recognizes that some names may be 
particularly important to the JFK story. In such cases, the 
CIA is willing to work with the Review Board to come to the 
appropriate resolution. CIA proposes that it.conduct a 
record search for information on that individual. It may be 
that in these cases, if the person is deceased and has no 
living family, that the Review Board and the CIA can agree 
that the value of revealing the true name outweighs the need 
to protect that source from disclosure. 
22. (U) It is our hope that the CIA and the Review 
Board can work out a mutually agreeable policy regarding the 
identity of human sources that will not undermine· the 
important policy of protecting those who work covertly for 
the U.S. Government. As usual, my staff arid I are available 
to discuss this matter with you. . i:_::~:·-'>-
·.:'~L-~-\ ~~ • John F. Pereira 
Chief, Historical Review Group 
8 
SECRET 
