-6-
''I have approved all the messages you are receiving from 
others today, and I emphasize that everything in these 
messages has my full support. We will do all that we can 
to help you conclude this operations successfully ... 
Until the very moment of the. go signal for the operation 
by the Generals, I must reserve a contingent right to 
change course and reverse previous instructions. While 
. fully aware of your assessment of the consequences of 
such a reversal, I know from experience that failure is 
more destructive than an appearance of indecision. I 
would, of course, accept full responsibility for any such 
change as I must also bear the full responsibility for this 
operation and its consequences." (Cable, 8/29/6 3) . 
In a reply cable, Lodge st9ted: 
''l. I fully understand that you have the right and 
responsibility to change course at any time. Of course 
I will always respect that right. 
2. To be successful, this operation must 
a Vietnamese affair with a momentum of. its 
this happen you may not be able to control 
"go signal" may be given by the generals." 
to President, 8/30/63) 
be essentially 
own. Should 
it, i.e.,. the 
(Cable, Lodge 
A cable from Saigon dated August 31, 1963, stated: 
"This particular coup is finished . : : . Generals did 
not feel ready and did not have sufficient balance of 
forces . '['here is little doubt that GUV. (South 
Vietnamese Government) aware US role and may have con-
siderable detail . ri (SAIG 0499, 8;'31/63) 
Deptel 243 and the VOA broadcast_ set the tone for later 
relations between the United States representatives and the. 
generals.· Big Minh, who had init~al doubts about the strength 
of American support, grew in confidence. 
C. The November 1963 Coup 
American dissatisfaction with the Diem regime became 
increasingly apparent. On September 8, AID Director David Bell, 
• in a ):elevis;ion inter.view,. stated that Congress might cut aid 
to .South Vietnam if the Diem government did not change its course 
Hlf 50955 Doclcl: 32423525 Page 138 
