• TOP SECREI' - 5....; ------
Physical S1.irveilla,1ce 
Mr. Osborn states that physical surveillance of individuals in this country 
has l:een very rare as far as the Office of Security is concerned. He doubts 
that it has exceeded ten times during his tenu_re in the Office of Security. 
He descril::es those circurrstances under which s1..1n,,-eillance has been conducted 
as being limited to the following: 
1. CIA employees and contract agents .belie"'ed to be divulging classified. 
information to unauthorized persons; 
2 
3. 
4. 
to find out if he was getting information from curre.11t 
Jack Anderson, Les i;-Jtritten and anothe . o detenn5ne their sources 
of classifieil inforrnation,and . a staff writer for 
for the sarre purpose; 
A female agent of thE= Latin American Division \--lho reported to the CIA the 
existence of a plot to assassinate the Vice President and to kidnap the 
Director of Cen~ral Intelligence. This surveillance was conducted under 
su:p=>rvision of Hr. Ober, of the Directorate of Operations, with the full 
lmowledge of the FBI. 
Also included in this surveillance was so:re of the contacts of this agent 
in Detroit, Miami, and New York City. T!:e agent involved here was Thelrn:1. 
King, and the surveillance took place in 1971. (Mr. Osrorn reports that 
a conversation l:Jetween Hiss King and her case officer in a NcW York hotel 
was also covertlv recorded.) I 
the 
.Mr. Osrorn is em;:,hatic to the fact that every instance of phvsical surveillance 
in his experience was authorized by the Director of Cen_.:ral Intelligence e.xe=pt 
that Mr. Brownrnan, the Deputy Director for Adninistration, may have been the 
official to authorize the surveillanee of enployees, but it is possible that 
these also -were aporoved by Mr. Colby as CCI. Mr. Osborn is also emphatic to the 
effect that no rrerrber of Congress has ever been placed under physical surveillance, 
has ever had his telephone tapped, has ever been covertly rronitored with resoect 
to any conversations or a:::mnunicationsJ or has ever had a security meek perforrred 
on him by the CIA. 
I 
'i.;'atergate Contacts 
1. The McCord Letters: Mr. Osborn states tho.t a letter directed to Mr. Ile lffs 
in late Ju.rte 1972 was referred to his office as a part of the "crank mail" 
rc.-ceived tha.t. day. He recognized the signature on the le.tter as being that 
of a forrrer errployee of the Office of Security, Mr. Janes Mc:Cord. Mr. McCord 
had shortlv before that been arrested in connection ,vith the brea]d.n at the 
D<21nocr c:itic Nc1 tionul. IIQadm.13.rters on June 16, 19 72. Mr. okoom states that he 
inm...,---<liatcly brought this letter to the a.ttention of Richapi Helrrs, the OCI. 
'IOP SECr-J::T 
NW 50955 Docid: 32203846 Page·· 11 
I 
I 
• - -~, 
i ... ,. ;r . i ;;, 
F 
"' t 
~ :.:, 
r .... 
