I 
\ 
-11-
Ambassador Korry was asked to go directly to President 
Frei 'to see if he would be willing to commit himself to 
' this line of action. A contingency of $250,000 was 
approved for "covert support of projects which Frei or 
his trusted team deem important." It was further agreed 
that a propaganda campaign be undertaken by. the Agency 
to focus on the damage of an Allende takeover .... 
(CIA Memorandum/Policy Decision Related to Our 
Covert Action Involvement in the September 1970 
Chilean Presidential Election, 9 October 1970) 
Following the September 14 Forty Committee meeting and -President 
Nixon's September 15 instruction to the CIA, U.S. Government efforts 
"* 
to prevent Allend·e from assuming office proceeded on two tracks. Track 
I comprised all covert activities approved by the 40 Committee, in­
cluding the $250,000 contingency fund to bribe Chilean congressmen as 
well as propaganda and economic activities. These activities were 
designed to induce the opponents to Allende in Chile to prevent his 
assumption of power, either through political or military means. Track 
* The terms Track I and Track II were known only to CIA and White House 
officials who were knowledgeable about. the President's September 15 order 
to the CIA. The Committee sent letters to various senior officials in­
quiring if they were, in fact, not knowledgeable of the Track II activities. 
Those letters were sent to Secretary of State William Rogers, Secretary of 
Defense Melvin Laird, Deputy Secretary of Defense David Packard, Under­
secretary of State for Political Affairs U. Alexis Johnson, Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Thomas Moorer, NSC Staff Member for 
Latin America Viron P. Vaky, Director of the State Department's Bureau 
of Intelligence and Research Ray S. Cline, and the Deputy Chief of Mission 
in Santiago Harry W. Shlaudeman. Thus far the Committee.has received 
written responses from Messrs. Moorer, Johnson, Vaky, Shlaudeman and Cline. 
All except Cline have indicated that they had no knowledge of the Track II 
activity at the time; Cline indicated he heard of the activities in a 
general way, from his subordinare who handled 40 Committee work and from 
former associates at the CIA. In oral communications with Committee 
staff members, Secretaries Rogers and Laird have indicated they were unaware 
of Track II. 
) 
mt 50955 Docld:32423539 Page 445 
-
