13-00000 
CT 
. 
: 
0 
0 
.... _ .. ,.·-
r 
DDO INSTRUCTION 
NO. 50-10 
SECRET ) 
DOI 50-10 
OPERATIONS-GENERAL 
4 September 1973 
Directorate or another agency; or if an individual or firm will be requested 
to perform an operational task or to deviate from his or its normal pattern 
of activity; or if the activity, even though consistent with the individual's 
or firm's normal pattern of activity, will take place because requested or 
funded by the Domestic Collection Division; that case will be subject to 
the: requirement for approval by the l)eputy Director for Operations.) 
a. Publishers, Producers, Journalists, or Employees of Public Information 
Media ( see DOI 240-6) 
( 1) Operational use of publishers or producers of public information media 
requires prior approval by the Deputy Director for Operations whenever 
th~~-~-~~ger_ th3:t_ suc.h activity 111igh~se,!_y~_in ~ny -way to influenqe 
U.S._Qublic opinion. Such activities include but are not limited to the 
• publishing of books, newspapers, or magazines, the maldng of films, 
the production of TV or radio programs or the issuance in. the United 
States of aitf p11b_lic. .. opinion influencing information media. The op­
erational use abroad of publishers or producers of public information 
media for non-U.S. audiences does not require approval by the Deputy 
Director for Operations even though such activities may have some 
unintended and unsolicited fallout in the United States. • 
( 2) Approval by the Deputy Director for Operations is also required prior 
to the operational use of jou~ts, newspaper, TY, radio, or new~ 
s~rvice correspondents or strin·gers, and employees of news media 
including TV and radio stations, whenever the individual is- a U.S. 
citizen or when the news -medium involved is under :u.s. ownership 
or control 
b. CARE Employees 
It. is .DDO policy to avoid operationai use of employees of the CARE 
organization including indigenous employees. Exceptional individual cases • 
involving-priority operational objectives will be_ considered on their merits. • 
Prior · approval by the Deputy D4'ector for Operations will be required 
in all cases. • 
c. ·Individuals Engaged. in Public. Relations Activities ( see DOI 50-18) 
Individuals engaged ·in public relations· activities which in any way have 
• or seek to have an influence on public opinions in the United States are 
considered to be in a separate sensitive category. In view of the peculiar . 
aspects of public relations activity, including the special requirements of 
the Foreign Agents Registration Act, approval by the Deputy Di.rector 
for Operations is required prior to the operational use in a public relations 
capacity of any individual who is engaged in public relations activities 
. and who is located in or operating into the United States . 
9 
SECRET 
