13_~-9.qqqo 
·····,.:-··· 
-
·.::~r-~:~r~f~\~t'.· 
.:;,:;:/;-~::!:·~ _: 
. . 
Speaker and President pro tempore, in other words, the line of succession 
under the Constitution but not below that. 
( Discussion off the record.) 
Mr. HoovER. Second, furnish the Secret Service authority to request assistance 
and cooperation from other U.S. agencies including the military, particularly 
in connection with foreign travel". 
Now, my reason for that is that sometimes requests for assistance have to 
clear through red-tape channels here at \Vashington through some high official 
of Government. If an emergency· arises abroad, or even in this country, .it 
may be of such character that you do not have time to telephone back to Wasb.­
ington or to telephone back to the Pentagon. Aid ought to be immediately 
available by calling on the locai authorities and the nearest military authority. 
Third, improve control of the sale of firearms requiring as a minimum 
registration of every firearm sold together with adequate identification of -the 
purchaser. The problem of firearms control is under extensive debate, in both 
the House and Senate at the present time. 
The gun that Oswald used was bought by mail order from a mall-order house 
in Chicago, no license for it, no permit for it, no ·checkup on it. The onJ.s 
way we were able to trace It was to find out where in this country that Italian­
made gun was sold. We found the company In Chicago and later the mall­
order slip that had been sent by Oswald to Chicago to get the gun. Now, 
there are arguments, of course- ' 
Mr. DULLES. In a false name. 
Mr. HooVEB. In a false naine. 
There is argument, of course, that by passing firearms legislation you are 
going to take the privilege of hunting away from the epJrtsmen of the country. 
I don't share that view with any great degree of sympathy because you have 
to get a license to drive an automobile and you have to get a license to have 
a dog, and I see no reason why a man shouldn't be willing, If he is a law-abiding 
citizen, to have a license to get a firearm whether It be a rifle or revolver or 
other firearm. 
It is not going to curtail his exercise of shooting for sport because the.police 
make a check of his background. If he is a man who is entitled. to a gun, a 
law-abiding citizen, a permit will be granted. 
Of course, today firearms control is practically negligible, and I think some 
steps should be taken along that line. _ 
Fourth, a ban on picketing within the vicinity of the White House as is now 
done at the U.S. Capitol and Supreme Court. Some of these pickets are well­
meaning and law-abiding Individuals, some are ·for peace and some are more 
or less dedicated Communists. 
Representative Booos. It is illegal to picket a Federal court now, Mr. Director, 
I happen to be the author of that law. • 
Mr. HOOVER. Yes; I am glad you had that law passed. Of course, they picket 
public buildings, they march around the Department of Justice Building, now 
and then, but the principal places they prefer to go are the Supreme Court 
Building, the Capitol and its grounds and the White House. 
I think such picketing at the White House, of large or small groups, should 
be "forbidden. I think at the White House they tried to get the pickets to 
walk across the street along Lafayette Park .. That at least takes them away 
from being close to the gates at the White House. I think there ought to be 
some control. Picketing, of course, is legitimate if it is orderly. Many times 
it doesn't continue to be orderly, and sometimes pickets, as in this city, have 
thrown themselves on the pavement ,and the police have to come and pick them 
up or drag them away. Theri, of course, the charge is made of brutality right 
away. 
Delegations of colored groups have visited me and asked why I don't arrest 
a police officer for hitting some Negro whom he is arresting in a sit-In strike, 
lay-in strike or demonstration in some southern cities. 
We have no authority to make an arrest of that kind. Under the authority 
the Bureau has we have to submit those complaints to the Department of 
Justice and if they authorize us to make an arrest we will do it. 
118 
.,, 
