its worldwide coverage of Soviet communications capabilities. Intelligence agencies of the military, such as Navy and Air Force, took to Bureau for details concerning purchases of this type made by Soviets since it enables reasonable estimate of their ability to monitor and intercept U. S. military communications. During 7/71, Program identified Soviet interest in purchase of sophisticated electronic apparatus in New York which can be utilized for radar or communications satellite tracking. They had not requested export license from Commerce Department for this article. It may be intended for clandestine use in U. S. for satellite tracking designed to improve accuracy of Soviet ICBM guidance systems. We have notified White House and interested Government agencies concerning this activity which is being conducted clandestinely from Soviet establishment in Washington, D. C.

4. Program supervised by Special Agent Eugene C. Peterson, Soviet Unit - Washington, Espionage Section. Expense and time utilized in handling program is negligible. Dissemination of material submitted by Washington Field and New York Offices requires minimum of time each month on part of Bureau Supervisor and no weaknesses in program are apparent. Administrative tickler for control maintained on Soviet Embassy Desk, Soviet Unit - Washington, Espionage Section.

5. Program is of value not only to Domestic Intelligence Division and field offices but to agencies receiving dissemination of material developed. Possession of some equipment on which discreet markings were previously placed by FBI Laboratory or item with serial number showing original acquisition by Soviets could serve to identify possessor with involvement in Soviet intelligence activity. Program is evaluated annually to determine justification for continuance.

6. Program last evaluated and justified January 8, 1971. Tickler maintained for reevaluation by January 15, 1972, and each year thereafter, if still of continuing value.

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION

8/19/71 ECP:eco

NW 88608 Dogid:2989638 Page 136