UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

DATE:5-30-75

Assoc. Dir. __ Dep. AD Adm. Dep. AD Inv. Asst. Dir.: Admin. Comp. Syst. Ext. Affairs Files & Com. Gen. Inv. Ident. __ Inspection

This memorandum reports the results of an executive meeting of the Executive Committee of the Ad Hoc Coordinating Group of Congressional Review for the Intelligence Community on 5-28-75.

The meeting was chaired by William Colby, Director of Central Intelligence.

Also present were: Philip Buchen, Counsel to the President, James Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President, Thomas K. Latimer, Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, John M. Clarke, Associate Deputy to the DCI for the Intelligence Community, William O'Connor, Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, Department of Justice, Section Chief William O. Cregar, Inspector John B. Hotis, and senior officials of the State Department, National Security Agency, Office of Management and Budget, Defense Department, and the Treasury Department.

The following matters of interest were discussed at the meeting:

House Select Committee on Intelligence Activities

Mr. Colby said he met earlier this week with Chairman Nedzi of the House Select Committee on Intelligence Activities, John L. Boos, Chief Counsel, and A. Searle Field, Committee Staff Director.

He said they seemed interested in the relationship which had developed between the Senate Committee and CIA and asked where he thought the Senate inquiry was going. They also discussed procedures regarding access to documents and witnesses and requested they be furnished some basic materials concerning the CIA's authority to conduct intelligence investigations.

They also requested that the Committee be provided with all the materials requested by the Senate Select Committee. Colby pointed out that the House Resolution (H-Res. 138) which established the Select Committee prohibits the disclosure of information outside the Committee without Committee approval. There is some question, however, whether this

Resolution can supersede Rule 11 of the Rules of the House of Representatives

1 - Mr. Wannall 1 - Mr. Mintz 1 - W. O. Cregar 1 - Mr. Daly 1 - Mr. Hotis JBH dkg (7)

62-1/6 395 217

5 JUN 11 1975

84 JUN 11 1975

NW 88608 DocId:32989588 Page 83