been opened. Careful records have been maintained regarding U.S. citizens who have visited these countries during the current year and arrangements have been made to receive quarterly reports from another intelligence agency which will enable us to double check our files and insure cases are opened on visitors to these hostile countries, when warranted. We feel this is a strong achievement because, as noted below, we have developed evidence that Americans are currently being recruited for intelligence assignments in these countries.

4. Early in 1971 it was determined an informant who had participated in Venceremos Brigade travel to Cuba had established a rapport with North Koreans in that country. Through careful direction of this informant, he was able to effect an invitation from the North Koreans to visit their country at their expense. He departed the U.S. with a group of three other Americans and traveled to Korea via Paris and Algiers. In Korea he was recruited by the North Koreans for an intelligence assignment, furnished funds, and a code. This is the first individual affiliated with the domestic subversive movement who, acting in a capacity for the U.S. Government, has been able to penetrate North Korea. We believe this informant will be able to furnish exceptionally valuable intelligence relating to foreign intelligence and political influence of the North Koreans in the domestic subversive movement.

5. Through cooperation with the British Security Service we have developed, during the past six months, direct connection between an individual who was associated with the Weatherman in the U.S. and bombing activities in England. British intelligence is extremely interested in this matter and we are carefully following it for developments.

Through intensified investigation of the Revolutionary Union (RU) and Venceremos Party (VP), we have been able to identify over 200 hard-core Marxist-Leninists who have all indicated violence-prone propensities. Of particular note is the fact that our closely supervised investigations in this area have developed an informant on the National Committee of the RU and have resulted in identification of an extremely militant RU group in Eugene, Oregon. The Department has expressed extreme interest in our RU investigation and has indicated a desire to explore prosecutions at the first opportunity.

In late 1970 Mark Lawrence Wefers, the student body president of the University of New Hampshire, traveled with a National Student Association group to North Vietnam. While there he made recorded speeches encouraging the servicemen in

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION

8/18/71

35

NW 88608 DocId:32989638 Page 47