THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: August 6-7, 1964, Meeting of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board

August 6, 1964

The first day of this scheduled 2-day meeting of the Board was devoted to an all-day visit at SAC Headquarters, Offutt AFB, Omaha, Nebraska, on August 6. In attendance were Messrs. Clifford, Doolittle, Langer, Pace, Gray, Land, and Coyne. Board members Murphy and Baker were unable to join the meeting at SAC.

August 7, 1964

On the second day of its meeting the Board convened at 9:00 a.m. on August 7 at the Board's offices in the Executive Office Building, Washington, D. C. Present were Messrs. Clifford, Doolittle, Murphy, Langer, Pace, Baker and Gray; and Messrs. Coyne and Ash. (Board member Land joined the meeting a little later on.)

Chairman Clifford commented on the valuable experience gained by the Board in the course of its visit to SAC headquarters the previous day, during which the Board had an opportunity to examine some fundamental intelligence problems confronting the U. S. and the USAF. Mr. Clifford mentioned the usefulness of the Board getting out of the atmosphere of "theory" in Washington, in order to view intelligence activities and problems on the scene. He thought that the Board's visit to SAC might well lead to action on the part of the Board with respect to some of the matters examined and discussed at Omaha.

Mr. Clifford pointed out that events of the last few days in the Gulf of Tonkin had necessitated some last minute changes in the agenda of the Board's meeting, and that particular attention would today be devoted to intelligence aspects of the Vietnam situation.

The Chairman informed Board members that Presidential action on the Board's May 2 report and recommendations concerning the National Reconnaissance Program awaits the outcome of pending considerations and discussions between Mr. McGeorge Bundy, Secretary of Defense McNamara, and the Director of Central Intelligence, Mr. McCone. Mr. Bundy, who has been following the McNamara-McCone discussions in the hope of seeing those officials reach agreement on the organization and management of NRP activities, recently asked Chairman Clifford if the Board could take part in these discussions with a view to facilitating agreement on the part of the Secretary of Defense and the DCI. Mr. Clifford, speaking for the Board, told Mr. Bundy that the Board felt that

ARGON/CORONA/FULCRUM/GAMBIT/OXCART

Handle via EYEMAN Control System