ACCOMPLISHMENTS COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, UNIT

The major accomplishment of this Unit evolves from the case entitled, "Solo, IS - C." Due to the sensitive nature of this case, it will be orally discussed with the Inspector.

In essence, this case involves sources developing intelligence information of the highest quality concerning the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA), the Soviet Union and its satellites, and the world communist movement. Since its inception, 37 successful missions to communist countries have been completed. Information developed by this operation from high-level contacts in the world communist movement is continually disseminated to the highest levels of our Government and, in many instances, is information not available from another source. Examples include the following: the current struggle among the leadership of the Soviet Union as of Spring, 1970, and early Winter, 1970, particularly in view of the struggle for power during the upcoming 24th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU); a message sent the Government of North Vietnam by the CPUSA, giving suggestions on how North Vietnam could aid antiwar protest groups in the United States; the Soviet reaction to the treaty signed by West Germany with the Soviets, along with secret portions of this treaty which have not yet been made public; the initiation of a worldwide propaganda campaign by the Soviets to counteract and weaken the United States position in the Strategic Arms Limitation talks; and details on the reorganization which is supposed to take place within the CPSU and the Soviet Government after the 24th Congress of the CPSU to be held in March, 1971.

All of this information was furnished the White House and other interested officials of our Government, usually by teletype. Central Intelligence Agency has expressed great interest in information developed by this operation and on July 24, 1970, requested permission to include pertinent data developed by our operation in a "Top Secret/No Foreign/Controlled Dissemination" classified document for senior U. S. Intelligence Board officials.

DID Inspection 1/12/71

4-E