4. Josef Hokes, former Czech Ambassador to Mexico, plays an important role in Cuba's revolutionary activity in Latin America.1 He is allegedly connected in Peru with Hugo Blanco, a revolutionary leader who lives in the mountains of Cuzco, to whom he has sent economic assistance and armaments. He is said to have carried out similar actions for Alljo de Fleitas, a priest and guerrilla leader of Brazil.2

5. Invasions are not contemplated as a part of the revolutionary program in Latin America unless there are first internal uprisings. These could possibly be carried out, because equipment for such uprisings is already stored in strategic places.

6. Hokes was present at a reception which the Czech Embassy in Habana gave for Fidel Castro and other Cuban officials.3 Among those invited were Manuel Galich, of Guatemala, and Aleksandr Ishkov, Minister of Fisheries of the USSR.

7. Latin American leaders who wished to speak with Hokes in order to obtain assistance were presented in Mexico by Natividad Rosales and Luis Suarez.4

8. Chinese leaders are demanding that Cuba invade Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Costa Rica, and Puerto Rico, and bombard Panama. They are also demanding that Cuba issue orders that the Communist and liberal soldiers in Venezuela overthrow the government and take power, and that the guerrilla organizations in Chile, Colombia, and Peru prepare for the declaration of a general revolutionary strike. As for Mexico, there they will only await an occasion when the military supporters of General Lazaro Cardenas and other active groups will take over power by means of a passive insurrection.

9. Cardenas and his supporters would rely upon receiving decisive assistance from the internal and external revolutionary organizations resulting from the coalition of Communist and revolutionary parties of Central America and Mexico which was carried out in Mexico in August 1962 and in which the Mexican leaders exercised control and supervision through Arnoldo Martinez Verdugo, a member of the central committee and the political commission of the Partido Comunista Mexicano (PCM, Mexican Communist Party). The coalition is made up of the PCM, the Partido Guatemalteco de Trabajadores (PGT, Guatemalan Communist Party), the Partido Socialista de Nicaragua (PSN, Nicaraguan Communist Party), the Vanguardia de Accion Nacional (VAN, pro-Cuban revolutionary group), the Partido Communista Salvadoreno (PSC, Salvadoran Communist Party), Partido Comunista de Honduras (PCH, Communist Party of Honduras), Partido de los Trabajadores de Honduras (PTH, Honduran Workers Party), and other leftist groups. The administrative secretary of the organization works in the building of the Mexican-Czech Institute of Culture, at Calles Insurgentes and Reforma and in its Political Bureau at Calle Londres 252. The coordinator is the international Communist Max Aub Mohrenwitz, a resident of Mexico who works for the National University of Mexico. Also, Emilio Portes Gil,5 former president of Mexico, is involved in this

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS-3/535,576

NO FOREIGN DISSEM