L. B. R. Adams

4-0-76

Legal Control

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS TO BE CLASSIFIED

SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

During various contacts with William Miller, a staff Director of State Select Committee, and Chairman Lesley Valdez (D-Jack), Chairman of the House Select Committee, the question comes up regarding the area in a case of the private office of individual & corporate Members to are the address of any electronic listening devices. The Committee personnel have been told that we consider such abusively essential and they agree.

in exploring this matter, it was determined that the Capital Police Department recently has established a special unit to handle all types of security problems within the Capitol . . . until complex, involving checks for electronic listening devices. Personalities of this sort have received extra training from the IJCA. The operations of the unit are controlled L左右 by the persons at Army of the Loug, e and Senate.

This matter has been discussed with Robert Song, Deputy Supervisor at Arms of the Senate and with General Durkee, General at Arms of the House. Usega advised that the special unit already has conducted photo security surveys of the new office space of the Senate Select Committee and certainly will perform any other tasks of this type needed by the Committee or its individual Members. I.e said, in fact, that since they now have this capability, it may well become any outside agency wishing to call on the bill to perform the task. We must make no commitment to do so until after hearing regarding the new method security changes. After that, if still felt necessary, write them a notice of certain electronic listening devices, see check. I also said their scale require prior approval before they can be installed. I understand

L - Joe Cravath I - Bill Corrigan I - Mr. Dorera

Bugs (n)

CONTINUED - CYRA

J.V.J. SEE ADDENDUM PAGE TWO

NW 88608 DocId:32989588 Page 94