be considered by offices having a Soviet establishment or particular investigative situation. This information is immediately furnished to interested offices by Supervisor having responsibility for coordination of the SPIA-SATPIA matters or by the substantive supervisor handling the particular investigation to which it pertains. Determination in this regard is made by Section Front Office which issues appropriate instructions and follows prompt compliance. Examples are notification from British and CIA regarding Soviet capability to use "dial-a-message" telephones (time, weather, prayer, AA etc.,) with sophisticated device on their telephone as means of clandestine communications. On another occasion British told us about Soviet use of compact broad-band scanning receiver by personnel supporting intelligence officer, during meet as means of detecting radio transmissions in area which might indicate counterintelligence service interest in that particular activity. Both New York and WFO were alerted to these circumstances for consideration in their coverage of Soviet establishments and covering double agent meetings.

All matters pertaining to programs such as captioned are routed through Section Front Office to insure adequate and aggressive attention and supervision is provided to field, and make certain no possibility is overlooked to exploit such situations for maximum counterintelligence benefits on field-wide basis, consistent with feasibility or applicability.

Inspector D. E. Moore

DEM:1mb 1/23/71

I share Mr. Branigan's views that Cokma is not applicable to WEO in view of the different conditions existing in the two cities. Noting the other comments of the inspector and the information set forth by Mr. Branigan, I would like to advise that in communications I read, in contacts with personnel of New York and WFO and supervisors at the Seat of Government and in contacts with representatives of cooperative foreign intelligence agencies, I am most alert to situations and procedures that can be adopted by us. In conferences with Section Chiefs in the Branch, I stress the need to be alert for procedures that may have worked in one area of our operations and can be adopted to other areas.

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION

FCP:eco 1/22/71

NWI-88608-DocID:32989638-Pg 631-