The Attorney General

Jaffe, a former correspondent for ABC and CBS television networks, was an informant of our New York Office from 1958 to 1961. During this period he furnished extensive information on his numerous contacts with Soviet nationals whom he met through his assignment as a CBS correspondent at the United Nations, New York, New York. In 1961 he was assigned to Moscow, USSR, as a correspondent for ABC and served there until he was expelled in 1965 following his reporting of information unfavorable to the Soviet Union. He thereafter was transferred to Hong Kong where he served until 1968. According to information from a former SIS officer currently residing in the West, Jaffe in about 1961, while in Moscow, was recruited by the Committee for State Security (KGB). Our investigation regarding this allegation has failed to either substantiate or refute this allegation. Jaffe, however, in 1963 reported to our New York Office that while in Moscow, he was approached in what he considered an attempt at recruitment by the SIS. During interviews with Jaffe he denied any overt acts helpful to the KGB, although he admitted a continuing relationship with several KGB officers.

[No information is contained in the files of the FBI indicating Jaffe was ever reported on by Colonel Penkovskiy.]c

With regard to his employment difficulties, this matter was the subject of discussion with Jaffe on several occasions after his return from Hong Kong in 1968, when he explained to Special Agents in contact with him that he was experiencing difficulty in finding a job and his concern that his association with the FBI was the reason for this difficulty. On every occasion he was assured that the FBI had not disclosed his confidential relationship with the FBI. Jaffe in 1969 advised that he had learned from a British intelligence service contact in Hong Kong that his recall from that city by ABC was caused by his refusal to cooperate with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). He related that he later mentioned this to a CIA contact in Washington who indicated that the British intelligence service representative had no right to relate to Jaffe this information.

-2- CONFIDENTIAL