MEMORANDUM FOR MR. SULLIVAN

RE: DOSNAR

[Tobin's] automobile and who, thereafter, surveilled the automobile to the area of the drive-in.

After waiting the agreed time, our Agent proceeded to a parking lot adjacent to a church about one mile further down the highway. Shortly after the Agent arrived, he was approached by the suspect who inquired "Are you [Tobin?]" Thereafter, the suspect claimed to be a messenger who had been engaged to pick up the package. He did deliver an envelope to our Agent which contained the $20 agreed to. At this point, the Agent, posing as [Tobin], identified himself and requested that the suspect identify himself and voluntarily accompany him to the San Diego Office.

The suspect, who has now been identified as the subject, is Perry A. Chandelaine, 3231 Par Drive, La Mesa, California. He is a Grade 13 engineer at the Navy Electronics Laboratory, San Diego. This laboratory does all the training and electronics work and research, including Sonar, for the Navy in the San Diego area. In this connection, the subject claimed that he had access to information classified "Confidential." He has been a Government employee in excess of ten years and is the father of ten children.

In May, 1952, subject was an applicant for the position of Special Agent with this Bureau. Apparently during the interview it was determined the applicant's father was killed by the police in Chicago in 1932 when caught stealing butter from a boxcar. He had been arrested for selling whiskey prior to that in Wisconsin. Applicant was considered very nervous and had a vagotomy operation for a nervous disorder performed in 1947. Applicant had an ulcer which caused his discharge from the service and which still, at that time, gave him trouble. He was unfavorably recommended for employment.

According to SAC Williams, the subject readily acknowledged that he was in real deep trouble and claimed that his wife was also knowledgeable concerning his activities. Subject freely admitted contacting the Soviets and offering to sell information to them. However, the subject steadfastly maintained that he was a patriotic American, a Catholic and one who hated the Russians and that he was endeavoring to get all out of them that he could and he then intended to turn whatever he obtained over to ONI.

Subject's wife was invited to the office and she confirmed that earlier in the evening the subject had apprised her or his activities and gave her a letter which was addressed to ONI and which she was to mail upon receipt of a phone call from him. This