In view of this definition of record material, we are required to retain any material which we have made or received during the course of public business, and which has been preserved or is appropriate for preservation.

In 1969, NARS surveyed the records of the Department of Justice including those of FBI and subsequently instructed that certain categories of FBI files at FBIHQ be retained indefinitely. Included were files which would have historical value and would document policies, procedures, functions, budgetary policies, etc. In addition, vast majority of investigative files must be kept indefinitely although it was prescribed that only a representative sampling of certain types of violations at five year intervals be retained. These requirements apply only to files at FBIHQ. NARS has previously approved destruction of closed field files as all pertinent information is in file at FBIHQ. As a practical matter, however, field investigative files are retained 20 years before being destroyed.

The FBI has an active program to keep its records at FBIHQ/the barest minimum. While certain categories of our files, as previously mentioned, must be retained permanently, some are obsolete and valueless. With approval of NARS we destroy certain categories of such obsolete material. Examples of the larger categories are: Results of investigations over 25 years old regarding alleged subversive and espionage activities wherein complaints were nebulous and no derogatory information was developed, and investigations where the perpetrators of the crimes were never identified.

In order to reduce amount of storage space required for files we microfilm, with approval of NARS, majority of files regarding criminal violations which are over 10 years old.

B. Categories of Files

Material is filed into one of the following general types of files:

Main Files

A main file is opened on an individual, organization, or subject matter when there will be an adequate volume of mail or the matter is deemed of sufficient importance to be assembled in one place. Main files are referred to as "Case Files" when we are making an investigation.