evaluation which CIA had made of the situation. Dr. Langer wondered whether there was sufficient DIA and State Department representation at the CIA center where the Central Intelligence Bulletin was prepared. Dr. Langer added that the White House staff followed the wrong procedure; that instead of querying CIA, Mr. Bromley Smith had called Mr. Coyne for help in getting a coordinated evaluation of the situation. Mr. Coyne corrected this by pointing out that in fact Mr. Smith had talked to State and others in the intelligence community; and thereafter called Mr. Coyne to obtain help in getting an up-to-date comprehensive summary of the SIGINT messages from NSA, and Mr. Coyne thereupon spent two days at NSA observing the work of NSA officials in reviewing and summarizing the messages which had come in from NSA field collection points, and the operational U.S. Navy messages to the extent that they had been made available to NSA.

Mr. Pace thought it strange that the availability of a channel to CIA had not been known to Mr. Bromley Smith, and Mr. McCone said that he too was surprised and intended to discuss this with McGeorge Bundy.

Turning to the subject of Cuba, Mr. McCone said that he had little to report in addition to that which he had reported to the Board at its meeting before last. CIA has 100 agents reporting on Cuba; they report comprehensively but under difficult circumstances requiring resort to clandestine radio equipment and secret writing reports through the mails. CIA has a reasonable number of sources (14) in the Cuban diplomatic corps, but Castro apparently doesn't have confidants among the Cuban diplomatic corps abroad. CIA has relations with friendly foreign diplomatic personnel inside Cuba. Mr. McCone said that he is not satisfied with the information being obtained from Cuba; the task is difficult; it is a matter of providing a negative. CIA has had to rely mainly on U-2 coverage results to check on the 45 reports received this year that there are Soviet missiles in Cuba. The SA-2 sites have probably been over to the Cubans by the Soviets, and a defector from an SA-2 crew has told CIA about Cuban operations. Castro has expressed intention to bring to the UN the matter of U.S. U-2's over Cuba, and has told Danish and Norwegian officials that after the U.S. elections in November, U.S. U-2's over Cuba will be shot down; Castro claiming that U.S. can rely on satellite photography of Cuba and must cease U-2 operations over the island. Mr. McCone said that by November 1, 1964, OXCART will be ready for missions over Cuba at a speed of Mach 2.8 and 80,000 foot altitude.

As for South Vietnam, the DCI said that it is most difficult to get intelligence on the Viet Cong. He has discussed with Ambassador Maxwell Taylor, and the CIA Station Chief in Saigon, how to improve this intelligence coverage. SVN intelligence organizations get very little information concerning the Viet Cong

HANDLE VIA BYEMAN-COMINT CONTROL SYSTEMS INC.

NW 186 DocId: 2490 Page 12

NW 68132

DocId:34671875 Page 14