"Please inform Mankel he should proceed Leopoldville as soon as shots completed. Not necessary have Congo visa. Should go Paris and take Air France flight to Brazzaville and can obtain visa for Brazzaville in Paris."

This cable contains a handwritten note in the margin as follows: "One copy given to Mr. Bissell by IS/Duty Off. Saturday. Action to be taken by DDP. - E.B."

5. Cable, dated November 9, 1960, to Luxembourg from Director. It contains the following statement: "Unless you advised to contrary by Altman, brief QJWIN on Dakar mission, using notes left during Rabney visit...Please insure he thoroughly rehearsed all details since we anticipate he will go from Leopoldville to Dakar with no opportunity reviewing briefing..."

6. Cable, November 11, 1960, to Director, from Luxembourg. Paragraph 2 contains the following statement: "QJWIN recommended two French contacts who agree undertake unspecified job. Arrangement made for direct access without QJWIN if Altman interested..."

7. Cable, dated November 12, 1960, to Director, from Leopoldville. This cable requests the immediate departure of QJWIN for Leopoldville, and contains the following statement: "Local operational circumstances require immediate expediting of QJWIN travel to Leopoldville."

8. The file contains several documents apparently describing various Italians in the area of Trieste who have the capability to break and enter and crack safes. They appeared to be of questionable morality. Reports on the safe-crackers were transmitted in a dispatch from the Chief of Station in (Rome) to the Chief, KUDOVE/D. The names of the safecrackers in question are (Sabatti), (Cuccagna), and (Bernardini).

9. Cable, dated December 8, 1960, from Leopoldville to the Director. It indicates that one purpose of QJWIN's presence in Leopoldville is to recruit a major in the [Yugoslavian] air force, through framing him up in an illegal smuggling transaction.] This recruitment is apparently for the purpose of collecting information from within the [Yugoslavian] government.

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

6/12

NW 78141 DocId:32201331 Page 19