UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. W. R. Wannall

FROM : W. W. Cregar

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. N. P. Callahan 1 - Mr. J. B. Adams 1 - Each Assistant Director

DATE: 4/10/75

1 - Mr. T. J. Jenkins 1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HERIN IS UNCLASSIFIED BY SP2 ALM72G DATE 4/18/61

This memorandum records the formal establishment of a task force entitled Project Senstudy 75.

The concept behind the establishment of this Project is to develop a capability of implementing requests received from Select Committees of the Congress in a comprehensive and timely fashion but yet allow the Bureau to continue to conduct its day-to-day business in as normal a manner as possible. We believe that by creating this facility we will be able to meet the requirements of these Select Committees with the exception of the research that will have to be done in the substantive Divisions.

While the Project will direct internal work and related liaison with the intelligence community and the White House staff, we envision the Legal Analysis Unit Office of Legal Counsel Division as continuing to be the primary point of direct contact with the Select Committees of the Congress. They will receive all requests and deliver all responses to these Committees. In addition, they will meet with the staffs of the Committees to insure the reasonableness of requests. If necessary, they will call upon the expertise of the substantive Division for determination as to whether a proposed request from the Committees can be responded to within a reasonable period of time and within the capabilities of the FBI's information retrieval system.

At the present time four Supervisors have been delegated to work exclusively on the Project. They are as follows:

APR 23 1975

The Project Manager will be Section Chief William O. Cregar, CI-2 Section, Intelligence Division. His duties will encompass the review of all incoming requests from the Select Committees in an effort to identify policy questions;

WOC:lmh/lmh (18)

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

8 APR 23 1975

NW 88608 DocId:32989628 Page 125