The Bay of Pigs Background

Hunt states that in 1960 he was assigned to the job of organizing a "government in exile" for Cuba among Cuban exiles in Florida. The plan adopted by the National Security Council under President Eisenhower called for the formation and training of a brigade of Cuban exiles who would invade Cuba, establish a provisional government, receive recognition by the United States and overthrow the Castro government. The brigade had its own air force and was otherwise fully equipped by the United States Government. The operation, however, was not supposed to be one involving United States Government participation. The venture was to involve training and launching from outside the United States.

In connection with his political activity and the organization of the government in exile, Hunt went to Mexico in 1960. Shortly thereafter the Mexican government demanded that they leave and he returned to the United States. Richard Nixon, then Vice President, was working closely with the CIA on the project.

When President Kennedy was elected in November 1960, he was briefed on the project and confirmed the plans, including the plan to provide air cover to the invading Cuban force. In early 1961, however, the Kennedy administration decided that the political organization of the Cuban government in exile would have to be broadened so as to include all elements of the Cuban society. Even radical leftwingers were to be included. Hunt was assigned the job of convincing the leaders of the Cuban community to accept such a broadening of the political structure of the government in exile. Hunt found this to be an impossible job to accomplish because the Cubans recruited to make up the invasion force had been promised that the government in exile would be solidly anti-Castro and anti-communist. Hunt asked to be relieved of his assignment because he thought it was an impossible one to achieve and he returned to Washington to work on propaganda and similar non-political aspects of the forthcoming invasion.

Within twenty-four hours prior to the time that the Cuban brigade was to hit the beaches at the Bay of Pigs, President Kennedy made two critical decisions that affected the final outcome: he cancelled plans