that he had the feeling that someone in the White House should be constantly in touch with and on top of covert operations; and he observed that the Congress believes that someone in the White House is keeping close watch on such matters. After a discussion of the Indonesia situation, President Kennedy thought that the Cuba fiasco was "Indonesia all over again," and he wondered if the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense should not be better informed regarding these matters. The President also expressed concern over the recent development in Singapore which involved some bungled efforts on the part of CIA to penetrate the Singapore police. Follow- ing expressions of views by General Taylor, McGeorge Bundy, and Mr. Gray, the President agreed that in addition to the need for staffing of NSC 5412/2 matters, the President needed to be kept informed with respect to these programs on a continuing basis.

Meeting of May 26, 1961:

In this second meeting of the PFIAB the discussion included a statement by General Doolittle that proposed reorganization steps with respect to the CIA would involve the question of the interference of covert operations with intelligence collection. General Doolittle had found, he said, that the "covert operations dog is wagging the intelligence tail" when in fact this should be reversed. General Doolittle added that a great number of people in the CIA are more interested in the political, psychological, propaganda and paramilitary than they are in the dry, difficult but important task of collecting, interpreting and distributing intelligence- a matter which General Doolittle thought could be corrected by a change of emphasis and by a change in organization.

At one point in the meeting when the DCI, Mr. Allen Dulles, was present, that official said that with respect to organiza- tional matters he favored transferring paramilitary activities to the Defense Department; he opposed the separation of other covert action activities from foreign intelligence activities; and he was opposed to separating the post of DCI from that of Head of the CIA.

Meeting of June 7, 1961:

Upon the completion of its third meeting on June 7, 1961, the Board met that evening with President Kennedy (the Attorney General and Mr. McGeorge Bundy were also present.) In connection with a statement by the President that he was receiving in- adequate information concerning developments in a number of countries, Board Chairman Killian said that it was the general

NW 185 DocId:2507 Page 7 NW 88192 DocId:34671892 Page 8