STUDENT NATIONAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE (SNCC)

100-439190

SNCC was originally organized in Atlanta, Georgia, in 1960 under the name Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. Prior to the election of Stokely Carmichael as its Chairman in May, 1966, the organization operated as a nonmembership civil rights organization with both white and black participation. Carmichael, on assuming the Chairmanship of SNCC, immediately eliminated all whites from participation and changed the organization from a civil rights-oriented group to one whose aims were those of antiwhite revolutionary action and the overthrow of the United States Government, a position which the organization maintains today.

H. Rap Brown, Bureau fugitive and well-known black extremist who served as National Chairman for a time following Carmichael's vacating of that position in 1967, again assumed the National Chairmanship of SNCC in the Summer of 1969. At that time, it was announced SNCC was eliminating the word "Nonviolent" from its title. The organization's headquarters were also moved from Atlanta, Georgia, to New York City.

Under Brown's direction, SNCC moved to restructure and revitalize itself in an attempt to regain its prominence as a black extremist organization. The national leadership issued directives on the reorganization of the national office in New York City, as well as the local organizations and the formation of councils to include a Revolutionary Economic Council, an Armed Guerrilla Tactics Council, a Research Council, and others which make up a body within SNCC known as the Revolutionary Political Council.

Included among new organizational procedures are plans for raising the number of active participants in local cadres, the obtaining and training in the use of weapons, the purchase of land for ostensible use in an Agrarian Reform Plan to aid black tenant farmers but which will also serve as a weapons training site. Training manuals on revolutionary activities, including guerrilla warfare and the medical care of wounded or injured persons, have been prepared and are to be disseminated to local SNCC chapters in furtherance of this reorganization.

As a result of H. Rap Brown's flight in May, 1970, to avoid prosecution in Howard County, Maryland, on local

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION

1/12/71

4-H

NWW 88608 DocId:32989638 Page 496

176