At 12:05 p.m. Messrs. Tordella, Bannerman and Gentile departed the Board meeting with the thanks of the Chairman for their assistance.

Following lunch, the Board resumed its meeting at 1:00 p.m. at which time Mr. R. J. Smith of CIA (Deputy to Mr. Ray Cline, Deputy LCI for Intelligence) presented a briefing of the situation in Laos, South Vietnam, North Vietnam, Cambodia, Malaysia, and Indonesia. (Chairman Clifford left the meeting in response to a telephone call from the President.)

Mr. Smith outlined some CIA views concerning intentions and capabilities of the Chinese Communists: (1) the Chicom hope to see China become a center of Communist authority world-wide, setting policy even for the USSR (2) the Chicom leaders presently wish to avoid high risk actions (3) Communist China has not achieved a nuclear production capability (4) of the 15 SAM sites in China, only 4 are operational, and the others lack equipment, and (5) the Chicom Air Force is deteriorating and replacements are slow in coming. CIA believes that Communist China will encourage Hanoi to keep high level of pressure going in Laos and South Vietnam; will continue efforts to subvert Malaysia; will avoid hostilities with the U. S.; will avoid a formal breach with the USSR, preferring to erode Soviet influence around the world; and will continue to support militant elements of Communist Parties in Africa, Latin America and Southeast Asia.

In answer to a question by Mr. Pace, Mr. Smith expressed the opinion that if the U. S. moved against Hanoi in the Air, the Chicom would not react.

Mr. Smith also mentioned briefly the situations in Cuba and in India. Mr. Smith concluded his presentation and left the Board meeting at 2:05 p.m.

At 2:10 the Board meeting was joined by Colonel Steakley, Director of the Joint Reconnaissance Center of the JCS. Colonel Steakley described in some detail the various COMINT, ELINT, Telemetry, and photographic collection programs which are carried out through peripheral and overflight aircraft missions under the monitorship of the JRC (including surface ship and submarine collection of COMINT and ELINT along the China coast). Colonel Steakley referred to the ELINT collection (plus some COMINT and telemetry) through RA-3B peripheral flights in the Artic; C-130 peripheral flights for COMINT collection in the Pacific, European and Cuban areas, including KC-135 missions near the Soviet border; photographic missions (BOW TIE) flown with RF-101 aircraft by Chinat pilots over coastal areas of Southeast China; covert photo collection on MATS (C-97 G) flights over Europe and Indonesia; C-135 telemetry collection missions near the launch areas and impact areas involved in Soviet space and missile activities; and collection of telemetry from satellites over Africa.

Colonel Steakley described the main functions of the JRC as pertaining to (1) monitoring of military reconnaissance programs (2) review and evaluation of missions proposed by the military (3) coordination of reconnaissance operations at the national level (4) U. S. and allied cooperation (5) monitoring of actual reconnaissance operations (6) coordination of policies and procedures, and (7) monitoring of special OPLANS.

IDEALIST/CORONA/OXCART