upon in months ahead to provide intelligence support in connection with the President's trip.

The step taken by President Nixon emphasizes the importance our Government places on the status of Red China as a world power. It is felt we should be in a position to provide the White House with as much intelligence as we can logically gather in the event such a request is levied upon us.

Accomplishments Since Last Inspection (1/8-26/71)

Our cooperative efforts with RCMP paid off during February, 1971, when we identified an unknown subject who made a clandestine contact with a Chicom intelligence officer in Ottawa. RCMP , through its coverage, recognized at the outset that preliminary contacts by the unknown subject were most unusual because of security precautions demanded by him. Within hours after our investigation was initiated, we identified the unknown subject as a Washington, D. C., resident holding impressive credentials in political circles. Our subsequent coverage in this case disclosed efforts made by the subject to gain employment on the White House staff as well as jobs with State and Justice Departments. We promptly alerted the White House and appropriate officials of other agencies.

In July, 1971, with the Director's approval, a desk-level conference was held at the Bureau with our RCMP counterparts. The results were most productive and, at the Director's instruction, we sent a memorandum to Dr. Kissinger setting out the highlights of the conference. Dr. Kissinger, in a personal letter to the Director, expressed his thanks for the information and noted that the Bureau's timely coverage of these matters is most important. He requested he be advised of significant developments as they occur.

Two of our sources who are being developed to fulfill double agent roles traveled from the U. S. to Hong Kong where they were scheduled to meet with their Chicom contacts. Another source, who is employed at the UN, is now in Communist China, and this trip was made at no cost to the Bureau. We expect to obtain valuable current intelligence information from this source upon her return to this country. Yet another source was directed to undertake a three-week period of travel during which he was to contact pro-Chicom individuals on the West Coasts of the U. S.