particular Legal Attache. In addition, he recently uncovered an international car theft ring involving the theft of over 180 cars stolen in the U.S. and valued at $700,000.

The Legal Attache, Buenos Aires, located and is currently attempting to arrange for the return of a subject from Argentina who was involved in a $200,000 fraudulent traveler's check case. This office has also been successful in tentatively identifying two individuals in Argentina who have been involved in the disposition of part of $8,000 worth of securities and blank money orders stolen in Chicago in 1971 during a robbery in which the owner was shot. This Legal Attache was commended by the American Ambassador in Buenos Aires for the part he played in the successful recovery of a hijacked American airliner in Buenos Aires which occurred without loss of life or damage to the aircraft. The Legal Attache, Buenos Aires, also played a leading role in preventing Meyer Lansky, the financial wizard of U.S. organized crime, from receiving asylum in South America. This action resulted in Lansky's return to the U.S. and arrest by the FBI on Federal criminal contempt charges.

The Legal Attache, London, has valuable contacts not only with New Scotland Yard but also with all major police departments in Great Britain. Time and again his office has acted as a conduit in major cases involving British and FBI interests. He also maintains close liaison with British intelligence services. The recent rash of letter bombs, one of of which wounded an employee of the British Embassy in Washington, has called for immediate and close liaison with British authorities. FBI bomb experts collaborated closely with Scotland Yard in London to the benefit of both agencies. Since the U.S. and Great Britain are prime targets of Soviet espionage, numerous instances of cooperation in this very delicate and secretive field have occurred between the FBI and the British intelligence service. This would be most difficult had we not had a Legal Attache stationed in London.

The Legal Attache, Madrid, through the cooperation of Spanish police, was able to effect 24-hour coverage on an Arab Al Fatah representative from Puerto Rico who visited and made contacts in Spain in June of this year. He also was able to arrange similar coverage on a visit to Madrid in 1973 of John Joseph Lombardozzi of the Carlo Gambino family of La Cosa Nostra. The