security clearance, as determined by such committee in consultation with the Director of Central Intelligence. The type of security clearance to be required in the case of any such employee or person shall, within the determination of such committee, in consultation with the Director of Central Intelligence, be commensurate with the sensitivity of the classified information to which such employee or person will be given access by such committee.

SEC. 10. The Committee on Intelligence of the Senate shall formulate and carry out such rules and procedures as it deems necessary to prevent the disclosure, without the consent of the person or persons concerned, of information in the possession of such committee which infringes upon the privacy or Constitutional rights of such person or persons. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent such committee from publicly disclosing any such information in any case in which such committee determines the public interest in the disclosure of such information clearly outweighs any infringement on the privacy of any person or persons.

SEC. 11. (a) The Committee on Intelligence Activities of the Senate may, after full and considered consultation with appropriate officials of the Executive Branch, disclose to the public any information received by it from the President or Vice President or any department or agency of the United States upon the committee's determination that the national interest would be served by such disclosure. In any case in which release, etc., such committee decides to make-public any information requested to be kept confidential by the President, Vice President, or the head of a department or agency, as the case may be, such committee shall notify the President to that effect. Such committee may publicly disclose such information after the expiration of ten days following the day on which notice is transmitted to the President unless prior to the expiration of such ten-day period the President submits a written certification to such committee stating that the national interest in the disclosure of such information is clearly outweighed by the probability of grave harm to the national security.