Polish, Yugoslav, Czechoslovakian and other communist-bloc countries. For instance, in the Cuban field on several occasions, FBI informants have been able to develop high-level or current intelligence regarding conditions in Cuba, and policies of the Castro regime through personal contacts with ranking Cuban officials both in the U.S. and abroad.

Through our coverage of the Communist Party, USA, and related organizations we have also frequently produced foreign intelligence, although to a lesser extent than in our operations in the foreign nationality field. One of our best sources of foreign intelligence in the domestic area is our so-called Solo operation* wherein we have informants acting in a liaison/capacity between the Communist Party, USA; and foreign communist groups, including the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. We have developed information through this operation regarding the Sino-Soviet dispute, social and political conditions in various countries, both in and outside the Soviet bloc, and tactics of the international communist movement.

Additional Potential

As indicated in the foregoing subsections, the Bureau is currently producing a considerable volume of foreign intelligence through covert means, much of it of a significant nature. Most of this data is an outgrowth of informants, technical coverage and investigative programs targeted primarily to fulfill our internal security and counterintelligence objectives and relatively speaking, we have committed only a small percentage of our assets exclusively in the direction of foreign intelligence.

It is believed that the Bureau possesses considerable potential for the development of foreign intelligence which could be realized with a fairly modest expenditure of manpower and costs if we were to make foreign intelligence collection a primary aim. For example, with existing equipment and facilities, we could expand our technical coverage of foreign establishments to include additional 30 to 40 foreign establishments provided we could assign about 25 additional personnel to this field. With the assignment of an additional 75 to 100 Agents, we could greatly intensify our foreign intelligence collection through live informants, primarily through the development and exploitation of additional sources at foreign diplomatic establishments. We could place more stress on foreign intelligence collection in our training programs and conferences to make more effective use of our already available assets. We could, for example, add specialized classes on foreign intelligence collection to our In-Service schedules or designate selected Bureau personnel to attend training sessions operated by other U.S. agencies regarding this subject.