SIGINT provides a broad range of foreign intelligence ranging from early warning indicators to the most mundane information. The importance of any single intercept or series of interceptions cannot be anticipated in advance; therefore, the probable cause standard and the proposed requirements of "particularity" are inappropriate in connection with this method of foreign intelligence collection. (Furthermore, the House bills would impair existing responsibility for using other intelligence gathering techniques against foreign subjects within the United States, e.g., medicepts, photo surveillance, etc.)

6. Effect on Intelligence Community Interests: The bills reviewed above would severely restrict domestic communications interception for foreign intelligence gathering purposes; raise serious questions respecting authority to intercept transnational communications; and would even raise questions concerning the foreign intelligence community's authority to conduct electronic surveillance abroad free from judicial intrusion or other conditions. (Moreover, the House bills would restrict the use of other intelligence gathering techniques against foreign targets within the United States.)

(a) Domestic Electronic Surveillance: An operation mounted against a foreign target within the United States to gather foreign positive intelligence would apparently not meet the court test unless the specific message targetted involved an anticipated, demonstrable and direct threat to the national defense. S. 743 explicitly confers interception authority to the FBI alone. It also explicitly raises the issue of the consistency of surveillance with international obligations, e.g., the Vienna Convention, and thus challenges the position taken by the State Department that no current international obligation precludes targetting foreign facilities within the United States.

(b) Transnational Electronic Surveillance: Proposed legislation would apparently subject the interception of trans-national communications from a situs within the United States to the probable cause standard. It could also provide grounds for arguing that interceptions of transnational communications from facilities outside the United States would be subject to the same standard.

(c) Foreign Electronic Surveillance: The bills reviewed above are broadly written and the prohibitions are not expressly limited to the territory of the United States. While the reach of this legislation should be subject to the built-in limitation that the authority of a federal court to issue warrants is confined to its territorial limits, repeal of 18 U.S.C. 2511(3) and the articulation of probable cause standards for foreign intelligence gathering activities could have a grave impact on overseas intelligence collection by bringing into play a body of exclusionary rule case law (developed in ruling on the admissability in a Federal criminal trial of evidence obtained overseas by electronic surveillance). Suffice it, here, to say that this could result in

NW 88608 DocId:32989609 Page 127