March 2, 1965

Memorandum for Messrs. Tolson, Belmont, Gale, Rosen, Sullivan, DeLoach

there would then be in one place a list of all phone taps and the purpose and reason for them. I stated that it is a fact, insofar as I am concerned, that I am the only head of an agency who does not have authority to tap telephones. I stated that I know that subordinates down the line in some agencies will tap phones without the knowledge of the chief of the agency and there is grave suspicion in Washington by some newspapermen that their phones have been tapped by agencies of the Government trying to find out where they are getting their information. I stated I have always been opposed to the law whereby it is necessary to get the authority of a court to tap phones because of the composition of some of our courts and the employees thereof, but I have always felt that the President should issue an Executive Order confidentially to all agencies that all phone tapping be discontinued except when specifically approved by the Attorney General so there would be in one place a list and then if any committee in Congress got on the warpath, the Attorney General would have a list he could vouch for as being the only phones tapped by the Government. The Attorney General stated that made sense. I stated many agencies are opposed because they realize there would be a marked restriction. I stated we only have 45 phone taps, which is a low number for a country the size of ours and the area we have to cover. The Attorney General stated no one has any idea how many phone taps the whole Government has.

I stated there is also a school being conducted in California by a private organization which instructs the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue service in the matter of phone tapping and they have sent their own personnel there to be trained. I stated internal revenue has also from time to time hired private outside phone tappers to do their tapping. I stated it is that type of thing if there were a real investigation which would come out.

The Attorney General commented that he would not guarantee some of it won't come out. I stated I was amazed when I learned of the school in California as I saw a reference to it in the newspaper and wanted to know what it was and what officers attended. I stated we have our own instructors and do it ourselves.

I stated I thought the Attorney General had made good headway with Senator Long. The Attorney General stated he thought it would be helpful, but his

NWI 88614 Doctd:32989673 Page 236