128. 9/28/62 - At the Board's 9/28/62 meeting the DCI indicated he did not believe that offensive, strategic missiles had been installed in Cuba, but he considered this a possibility at some future time, but only after Cuba's defensive capability was such as to deny Cuban airspace to U.S. reconnaissance aircraft. The DCI reported that "our intelligence collection on Cuba has improved since the first of the year" and that "CIA now has 45 third-country agents (meaning dip-lomats) reporting throughout Cuba."

129. September 1962 - "Offensive missiles identified: Western Cuba: Two launch sites consisting of 8 field-type launchers and 16 1020-nm MRBMs (SS-4). . . these missiles are probably those re-ported moving into this area during September." (Source: Joint Evaluation Report of 10/18/62, prepared by GMAIC/JAEIC/NPIC)

130. 9/29-10/2/62 - Pursuant to the 9/20/62 request of DIA, a pass over Cuba was made by the Corona vehicle launched on 9/29/62. The resulting photography was good by Corona standards but not of sufficient quality to reflect significant photographic intelligence on MRBM or IRBM developments on the island. When this CORONA photography was checked against the photography obtained from the SAC-operated U-2s it was possible to relate some of the earth scratchings appearing in the CORONA photography to the construction at some of the long range missile sites which were detected beginning October 14. Without the U-2 photography however, these scratchings could not possibly be identified as being associated in any way with MRBM or IRBM construction. The photographic interpreters at the Strategic Air Command believe that if all nine sites had been completed at the time of the CORONA pass, the CORONA photography might have resulted in the identification of the IRBM sites but not of the MRBM sites.

Dr. Charyk, in commenting on this subject to Board Member Gray, noted that this experience makes it obvious that satellite photography cannot be wholly relied upon when it provides negative evidence; and that this gives one pause when we consider the reliance which has been placed on satellite photography seeking evidence of missile installations in the USSR.

131. 10/1/62 - A memorandum prepared on this date in DIA by a DIA analyst, on the subject "Analysis of SAM Sites," dealt with the 15 confirmed SA-2 sites in Cuba and the discernible pattern which was developing from their location:

(1) In Oriente Province, the 3 SA-2 sites form a triangular pattern around the new military airfield at Holguin which will probably soon be operational . . . no MIGs there now but the MIGs believed to be stationed at Camaguay airfield will probably be moved to Holguin when Holguin becomes operational. (No SA-2 sites identified at Camaguay.)

(2) 4 SA-2 sites form a rectangular pattern around the military airfield near Santa Clara in the Central Army area -- where MIGs have been for several months, and also the field on which the first MIG-21 was identified.

HANDLE VIA COMINT/TALENT/KEYHOLE CHANNELS ONLY SPECIAL LIMITED DISTRIBUTION

NW185 DocId:250d Page 69 NW88192 DocId:34671886 Page 69