In considering various disruptive actions which may be exercised against these groups, it should be noted that neither the DK, KKKK nor the UKA, KLAN have any connection with the Attorney General's list under EO 10430. Although Knoxville territory does not lie within the traditionally deep South, there is, of course, some sympathy for organizations such as the klans within the territory as evidenced by the increased growth and activity of these organizations in recent years. Within the Knoxville territory there have been no acts of violence within recent years which were attributable to the klan. Although there may not be any public sympathy for the klan in this area, there is certainly no antagonism toward the organization and many persons have a passive feeling toward its membership and activities. In some instances, politicians have solicited the support of the klan in local elections. Just recently, one of the informants of the Knoxville Office, who is a high official in the UKA, KKKK, reported that one of the candidates for U. S. Congress running from the Knoxville district had contacted him and solicited the support of klan members on his behalf.

Because of such factors as the above, it is not believed that the cooperation of individuals can be utilized for plans of disruptive action such as might be available if the targets were Communist front organizations or related groups. In this regard, although news media are very cooperative with the Bureau in this territory, it is not believed that in a program such as this was, it would be feasible, to utilize news media in any counterintelligence operation in this area.

This matter has been discussed with Agents handling investigations of the klan organizations in the Knoxville Division and the following plans have been suggested as feasible for operation against the DK, KKKK and UKA, KKKK in this territory:

It is suggested that anonymous telephone calls be made to employers of klan members inferring to the employer that his company or business must be following a racist policy in view of the fact that he has an employee (giving his identity)