status of this relationship, and we periodically make adjustments in order to make certain there is no "freewheeling" and to take advantage of the information which DCS gains. and which is of interest to the Bureau. For example, we are currently working out arrangements where our field offices can contact the local DCS offices concerning Chinese aliens who might be of interest to us either as subjects for investigation or as potential informants. This liaison at the field level was deemed desirable so that we could get information at the "horse's mouth" rather than wait for a reply from CIA headquarters, which is often prolonged and, when transmitted, is sometimes stripped of pieces of information. This occurs because of the involved and sometimes complicated maze of bureaucratic compartmentation within CIA.

In the latter part of 1963, CIA created its Domestic Operations Division (DOD), which was to be responsible for any clandestine development of sources in the United States. Prior to the establishment of this Division, CIA activity in this field was managed from each individual area division at Washington headquarters. The pressing need for more clandestine sources, coupled with the recognition of the vast potential in the United States, prompted CIA to create a new division which would be responsible for all of the area division interests. DOD has headquarters at Washington, D. C., and currently has field offices at New York City, Boston, Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Honolulu, and Washington, D. C., proper. Approximately 40 intelligence officers are assigned to the task of engaging in assessment and/or recruitment of positive intelligence sources, primarily in the diplomatic field. Some of the personnel are assigned to the handling of firms or organizations which may be supporting certain CIA operations abroad. DOD personnel in the field operate under authorized Department of Defense cover. The heads of these field offices are known to us, and we have established a satisfactory liaison area at the field level.

DOD is also responsible for the handling of CIA agents (informants) who have been recruited abroad and who come to the United States for assignments either on a temporary basis or for the duration of a normal diplomatic assignment.