Michael Lasky, a former member of the Provisional Organizing Committee for a Marxist-Leninist Communist Party. The CPUSA-ML in its initial stage proposed to conduct guerrilla warfare training, including the use of firearms; to organize cells in the South to exploit the racial situation; to agitate the population and to create situations which would require the use of Federal troops.

For a time the CPUSA-ML operated in California. the Workers International Bookstore, an outlet for propaganda material originating in Communist China. The organization has been plagued by factionalism based upon the egotism of its leadership. Lasky and a key aide, Arnold Hoffman, split into two separate groups. In November, 1967, Lasky and another member of the CPUSA-ML traveled to England where they made contact and sought liaison with a number of British pro-Communist China groups. Thereafter, they traveled to Paris where Lasky was in contact with the Albanian Legation and the Chinese Embassy seeking funds; literature for his organization and extension of his travel to Communist China. Available information indicates Lasky was rebuffed by both the Chinese and Albanians.

Committee of Correspondence

The Committee of Correspondence was organized in 1967 by Clayton Van Lydegraf of Seattle, a former leader of the PLP. This Committee, which has ties in California, publishes "The Voice," an anti-Soviet and pro-Chinese periodical. Van Lydegraf's group is in contact with other pro-Chinese groups and is seeking to establish influence and contacts within the domestic Negro nationalist and New Left movements. Van Lydegraf was in attendance at the recent SDS National Convention as an observer and he has engaged in teaching informal classes in Marxism-Leninism. He is a frequent author of articles in "New Left Notes," a publication of the National Office of the SDS.

Trotskyite Groups

The Socialist Workers Party (SWP), founded in 1938, is a militant revolutionary group based on the theories of Marx, Engels, and Lenin as interpreted by Leon Trotsky rather than Joseph Stalin.