Helen, and Antonio, figure in a soft情—about time could be. Now come to Norwalk from Phoenix 25 year-olds. Since then, they have evidently lived according to a single, uncomplicated philosophy — namely, people who work hard, worship God, discipline their children, and mind their own business will make out accordingly. Life might be meager, but it will advance smoothly and peaceably and, perhaps, for their children, it may even become progressively richer.

And, until July, the Hernandez formula had seemed a sound one.

Antonio, a big solid man dressed in neat polyester slacks and a crisp button-down shirt, is a grinder in a nearby steel foundry. He has saved his money and now almost owns his modest little pink house which by barrio standards, is a comfortable one. He takes pride in it.

Bashful Woman

Helen, a stout, hashful woman with a fresh-scrubbed, friendly face, prone to twisting nervously at her wedding rings, has always been single-mindedly devoted to her duties as a wife and mother. Never has she even considered working outside her home, though the Hernandez family, like most in the barrio, has always needed more money than they have had.

Both devoted Jehovah's Witnesses, the couple have also enforced a rigid brand of religion in their household. Their sons have been taught, among other things, that violence is evil.

It is, therefore, with boundary-pioneering pride that Hernandez and Antonio Hernandez report there are no high-school dropouts in their family—and no loggers, no hippies, no punks, no convicts. Only hard-working, sports-minded, clean-living, patriotic Americans. Especially the latter.

Who? Helen Hernandez's 18-year-old son was drafted; she beams, he went to serve his country without question. He was in the Army for a year, until an automobile accident earned him both a medical discharge and a permanent speech impediment. Now he works in a Norwalk packing plant.

Likewise, when Oscar Hernandez was drafted he too went willingly, serving as a guard at Da Nang Air Force base in Vietnam until his discharge with two Bronze Stars, last summer. He had been looking for a job ever since.

"He never really talked much about Vietnam. Except he was glad he didn't have to kill anybody," says Helen Hernandez, her voice shy, hesitant.

"Oscar never liked to box in high school either, because he didn't like to hit anybody. So he played baseball. And track."

She blushed, embarrassed, it seemed, to defend her son's passive nature.

Indeed, it soon becomes amply apparent to a stranger in the Hernandez household that making excuses for Oscar—who is accused of driving the car that carried Joyce Ann Huff's killer—is considered somehow undignified, even unpatriotic, insolar as it might imply a fear that the American system of justice is incapable of discovering truth immediately and precisely, sionately on its own.