At the present time, we have designated 75 individuals as Key Activists. Of this number, 40 are currently the subject of investigative action. This has definitely severely disrupted the entire New Left movement as well as component New Left organizations.

Through the New Left Movement reports prepared quarterly by each field office, we have provided to interested agencies timely and informative documents on the activities of the New Left movement, thus making a substantial contribution to the objective that responsible officials be fully aware of the threat the New Left presents to our democratic society.

By closely following a myriad of New Left publications ranging from those merely pornographic to those clearly revolutionary, we have determined the leadership of these publications; their propensity for violence and subversive activities; sources of funds; and through dissemination have advised interested officials and agencies. Since these publications frequently appear and disappear within a short time, we are alert to the birth of new publications by following various underground news service lists as well as other documents and books which report new publications in this field.

We have recognized that in the past, informant coverage of New Left groups has not been adequate and accordingly have given great emphasis to this aspect of our responsibility. As a result, informant coverage in this area has been dramatically increased. At present, we have 900 informants and sources of all types providing coverage of the New Left. This number includes 178 security informants and 410 potential security informants.

Since the last inspection, New Left informants have provided information which has: led to the indictment of a number of New Left leaders on Federal and local charges; located fugitives including some Weatherman fugitives; provided advance information on numerous New Left demonstrations including plans for violence; and furnished detailed information on the organization, membership, and activities of a broad range of New Left groups.