In his further remarks to the Board members at this meeting, Mr. McCone took up the subject of covert action programs which he then proceeded to describe to the extent that they involved aerial reconnaissance missions over China following consideration and approval by the Special NSC 5412/2 Group.

Later on in the meeting, the Board was briefed by Mr. Helms of CIA concerning Cuba. Mr. Helms said that after the abortive Cuban invasion there was a relaxation of covert action and intelligence collection efforts for several months with respect to Cuba; however, since December 1961 a major intelligence effort has been aimed at Cuba, involving U-2 overflights, interrogations of Cuban refugees in Florida; and the obtaining of intelligence reports. In answer to a question by a Board member, Mr. Helms said that thought had been given to sabotaging petroleum which is enroute to Cuban refineries, but such a covert action project was awaiting further policy consideration. General Taylor joined the Board meeting at another point, in response to the Chairman's invitation, and among other things he discussed the subject of covert action activities. General Taylor asked whether the Board wished to indicate any reaction it might have to its current review of NSC 5412/2 matters, and Dr. Langer responded with a comment that as yet the Board's discussions had not gone beyond a briefing on procedures given by the Secretary of the Special Group. In answer to a question by Dr. Langer, it was General Taylor's opinion that the Special NSC 5412/2 Group is not set up nor equipped to run a continuing check on the implementation of all covert action projects, and for this reason the Special Group places dependence upon the PFIAB.

(When the Board met with the President on the afternoon of June 26, 1962, Chairman Killian mentioned to President Kennedy, among other things, the problem of assuring appropriate political control of covert actions conducted by the CIA or other elements of the government. Chairman Killian observed that the Special NSC 5412/2 Group was functioning effectively. As a footnote to its report to the President, Chairman Killian informed President Kennedy that the Board was happy to state that there had been resolved a problem which had recently arisen with respect to the Board's need-to-know regarding certain intelligence and covert action programs; and Dr. Killian felt that with the resolution of this problem, the Board could

NW 185

DocId:2507

Page 10

NW 88132

DocId:34671892 Page 20