scattered out over the island of Cuba and the greatest concentrations are the 2,500 to 4,000 Soviet personnel in the 4 major Soviet armored camps. In answer to Dr. Langer's question as to what the 2,500 to 4,000 personnel are doing, Mr. Clark stated that their main mission was probably the furnishing of training to Cuban military forces. Mr. Clark said that COMINT obtained this week confirms reports that Cuban pilots are receiving training in MIG-21's.

Noting that Mr. Fitzgerald had stated that CIA had 4 agents in Cuba in 1962 and now has 4 agents in Cuba in 1963, Mr. Clifford wondered whether efforts are being made through other Latin American countries to infiltrate clandestine agents in Cuba. Mr. Fitzgerald said that efforts are being made to develop agents from other Latin American countries to operate in Cuba. He added that while Mr. Clifford's recollection was correct concerning the constant figure of "illegal" agents in Cuba as of a year ago and at the present time, nevertheless there are approximately 87 "resident" agents in Cuba who are engaged in clandestine intelligence collection.

Messrs. Cottrell, Kirkpatrick, Fitzgerald and Clark departed the Board meeting at this point.

At 12:00 noon, the Board meeting was joined by General Carroll, the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency and by General Quinn and Colonel Gillis, members of General Carroll's staff.

General Carroll recalled that at a Board meeting last year he had discussed the status of the organization of the Defense Intelligence Agency and the responsi- bilities which had been assigned to DIA or were being considered for assignment to DIA. General Carroll said that at this time he would like to point out the present status of organization of the DIA and the responsibilities which have been recently assigned to it.

General Carroll pointed out that DIA has the responsibility for handling military intelligence requirements for the Department of Defense as a central

Handle via COMINT-TALENT-KEYWORTH Channels Only

NWCART-CORONA-IDEALIST

N W 1 8 5- Do c l d : 2 4 9 5 P a g e 1 2 NW 88192 Docld:34671880 P a ge 16