UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

DATE: 4-3-75

By memorandum dated 3-20-75, you were advised of a request received from the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities. The Intelligence Division requested that an attempt be made to modify portions of the Committee's request.

Regarding Part I titled Legal Authorities, the Intelligence Division pointed out that this particular request was wide-ranging and required a considerable file review as it requested any memorandum discussing the legal authority of the FBI to "(1) investigate internal security matters, (2) collect intelligence information, and (3) engage in counter-intelligence activities; together with copies of all constitutional and statutory provisions, executive orders, presidential directives, Attorney General opinions and memoranda, and any other materials asserted as sources of such authority." With regard to Part III concerning the FBI's administrative organization, they requested the identities by name of personnel in the Intelligence Division, Unit Chief and above. This caused concern in the Intelligence Division that there would be a needless proliferation of a list of Bureau personnel working in this field which list, of course, would be of interest to foreign intelligence sources.

On 4-1-75 Inspector John B. Hotis and SA Paul V. Daly discussed these matters with William Miller, Staff Director of the Senate Select Committee; John T. Elliff, who has been nominated to head the task force for the Committee looking into FBI activities; F. A. O. Schwarz, Counsel to the Senate Select Committee; and staff member Michael Epstein. They agreed to modify the request in Part III to the extent that personnel in the Intelligence Division need not be identified by name below the level of Assistant Director in the organization chart to be furnished them pursuant to their request of 3-19-75. They asked as an alternative the Bureau prepare a list of personnel in the Intelligence Division down to the level of Unit Chief with names included which they would have access to review in Bureau space.

REC 17

Enclosure

1 - Mr. Callahan - Enc. 1 - Mr. Adams - Enc. 1 - Mr. Jenkins - Enc. 1 - Mr. Walsh - Enc. 1 - Mr. Wannall - Enc.

1 - Mr. Mintz - Enc. 1 - Mr. Farrington - Enc. 1 - Mr. Hotis - Enc. 1 - Mr. Daly - Enc.

APR 15 1975

PVD:dkg(11)APR 22 1975