The political orientation of "Ramparts" magazine is a reflection of the activities and ideology of its readers. This has been extremely active in this country in a leadership capacity in a broad range of New Left protest activities and openly espouses support of Fidel Castro and the Vietnam National Liberation Front. His foreign travels include a trip to Cambodia, Thailand and South Vietnam in February, 1966. In January, 1968, he attended the Cultural Congress held in Havana, Cuba, traveling to Cuba via Mexico City as an accredited correspondent. He stated he traveled with the approval of: the State Department. He was again in Cuba from April. 23, 1968, to May. 10, 1968, and from December. 31, 1968, to January. 13, 1969, during which time he attended the celebration on January 2, 1969, of the 10th anniversary of the Cuban revolution.

Demonstrative of our political ideology is the following statement made by us in 1965, "The Viet Cong is a party of peace, and if I was in Vietnam, I would be on the side of the Viet Cong."

Black Extremist Movement

The obvious objective of communist incursions into the black extremist movement is to bring about a Negro revolution in the United States. The presence of trained intelligence agents in Cuban Embassies and Missions together with the intrepid expressed by Cuban officers in the black extremist movement in this country accentuate the possibility of involvement of Cubans in this movement.

Travel by numerous black extremists to Cuba has been extensive. As previously indicated, and such SNCC members as we have seen and who traveled to Cuba in July, 1967, where was successful in extracting a promise from Fidel Castro to support the black extremist movement.

From Cuba, he traveled extensively to other countries in search of support for his militant movement in the United States. His itinerary included North Vietnam, Algeria and Egypt. As a SNCC representative, he attended portions of the second session of the Vietnam War Crimes Tribunal held in Copenhagen, Denmark, in late November, 1967.

-- 23 --