So, she said, they all got to alliterate. In Department Children is also — including Ramirez himself — who, for antisemitic reasons, hasn't been able to require welfare aid himself; although, he suffers from a severelyarthritic back. Lately, too, he suffered, he's been suffering from a finger that was half cut off the other night in a bar fight.

"The guy really had some real of teeth," he chuckled, relishing the memory of "the little squabble."

But seriously, he said, he would like to tell the state to go shove its welfare.

"I want to work, but all I ever know was hard labor. Now, who's going to hire a 53-year-old Mexican for a desk job? I can barely even read."

Without AIDC aid, he added, "we'd all probably starve." As it is, he's $1,000 behind in his house payments so, sooner or later, they'll all probably be out on the street anyway.

Nobody looked very alarmed.

Nobody looked, either, like they even remembered their brother Michael, until Ramirez suddenly reminded them.

"I don't even have the money for gas to go see my son," he said.

The mood in the room changed instantly to seriousness.

What concerned everybody present, it seemed, was not so much Mike's plight, but rather the effect it would have on his mother when she returns from Mexico, sometime later this week.

She has suffered from severe nervous disorders for years, they said. And when she finds out what's happened to her son—the

Seven of her eight children—her husband and three sons.

"God, I wish we could get her to stay down there till this is over," lamented Sylvia, lighting another cigarette.

"Yeh, but if we try that, she'll just get suspicious something's wrong," served Yolanda, always the realist.

Miguel Ramirez, who has a certain indisputable dignity born of uncompromising honesty, had grown somber in his manner.

"As you can see, it's mostly just a question of survival, like in a jungle, for Mexicans like us. We just live from day to day. That's why a lot of Chicanoes hang on to their pride and get mad easy—it's all they got."

He shrugged, looking around at his daughters, who listened, suddenly silent.

Most of his kids had either been kicked out of school for making trouble or they had quit in disgust, he continued.

One son, 22, was in jail already, for undisclosed reasons. Only his oldest boy, 28, had even gotten out of the Norwalk barrio, although, Ramirez digressed, he had hopes for his youngest son, 15, who was "a good student and a hard worker."

One Thing Sure

Meantime, whatever his kids had done, Ramirez said, he knew one thing for sure.

"My son Mike would never hurt a kid or be part of a rotten thing like that. He may have been mean sometime, but he would not take it out on babies."

But, sighed Ramirez, it's out of his hands now. And the whole family expects the worst.

"They'll just figure he's a dirty Mexican capable of anything. What did the cops call it—a joy killing?" They'll probably just lock him up for good, without thinking twice about it," said Yolanda, shrugging cynically, philosophizing to the end.

NWW 88608 DocId:32989645 Page 10