DESECO PROGRAM

4-H

Bufile 105-71688

The Deseco Program (program for development of selected contacts to be directed against Soviet-bloc officials) was conceived in an espionage conference in December, 1957. Its objective was to intensify the development of informants and double agents to penetrate Soviet-bloc intelligence and for use in sensitive defection approaches.

Between the last inspection and December 1, 1970, approximately an 8-month period, 37 Deseco subjects were placed in contact with Soviet-bloc officials and 8 of these have developed to the status of security informants or double agents.

The majority of work is concentrated in the New York, Washington, D. C., and Chicago areas where Soviet-bloc establishments are located. A Soviet Consulate General is scheduled to become operative in San Francisco during 1971, and a skeleton staff of four Soviet officials with five dependents is seeking appropriate buildings for this establishment.

San Francisco and other West Coast offices are currently developing a "pool" of Deseco sources for eventual use against Soviet intelligence officers who will operate out of the Soviet Consulate General. Due to the increased number of Soviet-bloc personnel in the United States and their relative freedom of travel, particularly to technical and scientific conventions, a total of 19 offices have been authorized to conduct "sounding-out" interviews of prospective sources without prior Bureau authority. Follow-up interviews with potential Deseco sources are conducted on a UACB basis. Unusual and highly sensitive cases are routed to the division front office for approval.

The New York, Washington Field and Chicago Offices submit monthly progress letters summarizing the results of the program. The other 16 offices submit summaries on a semi-annual basis. This program substantially assists us to penetrate and neutralize Soviet-bloc intelligence. The results achieved thus far warrant the program's continuance. It is the best means of penetration available considering the

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION

1/12/71 LW:as 4-H