THE CHINESE UNIT

4-E

As a result of our close cooperation with RCMP, that agency, in 12/70, provided us with details of one of its double agent operations which clearly depicted intensification of Chinese communist (Chicom) intelligence efforts directed against the United States. We learned that the Chicoms have funded travel of the RCMP source to New York and Washington, D.C., where the source undertook to fulfill intelligence contacts and development of data for the Chicoms. As a result of getting this information, we learned that Chicomms desire to lay the foundation to get "our people" (Chicomms) into the United States under suitable cover, probably when the Chicom Embassy opens in Canada in the very near future. The Director's letter to the Commissioner, RCMP, expressed appreciation for RCMP information.

During August, 1970, three of our Chinese informants made contacts with Chicom intelligence representatives in Hong Kong and Canada, and it is believed they were affirmatively assessed for recruitment. Another source has made several trips to Vancouver, Canada, and San Francisco where he has made strides to penetrate Chicom groups which would be essential bases for future Chicom operations directed against the United States.

In August, 1970, National Security Agency (NSA) advised of increased interceptions of radio transmissions from Red China directed to illegal agents possibly in the United States. Immediate instructions were directed to appropriate field offices and efforts are under way to pinpoint areas of reception with the expectation that illegal agents will be uncovered.

Investigations have developed data indicating possible Chicom intelligence net formed in New York City utilizing Chinese seamen deserters as mail drops and/or couriers.

We identified a Chinese alien residing in New Jersey as an individual who provided an intelligence report to the New China News Agency (NCNA) representative in Canada. The NCNA representative has previously been identified as a Chicom Intelligence Service officer. The alien indicated he had a sub-agent working for him in New York City.

FXO:dgo 1/13/71 4-F

NW 88608 DocId:32989638 Page 423