Page 00221

Item (A) is believed to be accurate and in the absence of additional detail no serious damage would be suffered by release of this information.

Item (B) is accurate and as long as target is not specifically identified no serious damage should be incurred. It should be recognized, however, that although the concept of intercepting cryptographic machine emanations would come as no surprise to those familiar with intelligence work, confirmation of a functioning system could encourage implementation of countermeasures which would deprive the U.S. of invaluable information.

Item (C) is accurate except that the equipment has not been operated for some time. Without specific identification no serious damage would result from disclosure of this information.

Item (D) is inaccurate to the extent that it states that "installation is not fully operational because the full complement of personnel have not yet arrived." Aside from that, disclosure of information could lead the knowledgeable foreign government to be certain of Bureau's participation and take whatever diplomatic steps they felt necessary. Decision to withhold is an operational/political one rather than one which would affect technical capabilities and, therefore, the Laboratory is making no recommendations in this regard.

Page 00222

Item (E) is accurate and entirely too revealing. If there is any way this item can be deleted from material yet to be given to anyone outside the intelligence community, it should be done. As written, it suggests a concerted effort toward a penetration to be attempted in the future. Disclosure of this information could easily negate millions of dollars already spent and literally years of work already performed - the largest single project ever undertaken by this Bureau. In view of our responsibilities in the counter-intelligence field, the FBI, as well as the intelligence community, and perhaps the free world as well, would suffer incalculable harm from release of this information. It would also be appropriate for the Intelligence Division to comment on this item.