(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Senate Committee Rejects Request By CIA, FBI to Monitor Inquiry

By SAUL FRIEDMAN Herald Washington Bureau

WASHINGTON — The Select Senate Committee on Intelligence Activities rejected Friday a rather unusual request by the CIA and FBI to monitor the committee's investigation into the spying operations of those agencies.

At the same time, committee chairman Frank Church (D., Idaho) announced that “the tempo of our investigation will now be stepped up” and that staff investigators will begin questioning witnesses, within a few days, about the CIA's “covert” operations here and abroad.

The committee was created by the Senate in January following charges and reports that government intelligence units and other agencies were illegally spying on American citizens. But the committee has been slow in getting off the ground.

FRIDAY, AT a closed meeting, committee members cleared away some obstacles to an investigation, Church reported, and “it was decided the serious investigative work should go forward.”

Among the problems were requests, relayed to the committee by the White House and the Justice Department, that the CIA and the FBI be permitted to have monitors present when one of their agents or employees is questioned.

Church said the agencies suggested that “the monitors be called observers.”

The committee has already agreed with CIA-FBI requests to take such unusual secrecy measures that committee and staff members will be required to withhold information from each other as well as from the public.

The committee balked at the latest request, however, because it would have opened the probe to the agencies under investigation and al- followed them to possibly intimidate employes who may wish to give them information about their superiors.

CHURCH SAID the committee had unanimously rejected the CIA-FBI proposal "believing there should be no inhibition" among those questioned by senators or staff personnel.

In another important procedural action, the committee gave Church the power to issue subpenas if the administration or the agencies are slow in volunteering documents and witnesses.

The first phase of the investigation. Church said, would go into the CIA's "covert intelligence operations" including reported plans and attempts to assassinate foreign leaders.

The committee investigators, with at least one senator present, will question witnesses informally or, in sworn depositions, in executive session, Church said.

Date: 5/10/75 Edition: Author: Editor: Title: SENATE COMMITTEE REJECTS REQUEST BY FBI, CIA Character:

or

Classification: Submitting Office: MIAMI, FLA.

Being Investigated

SEARCHED INDEXED

SERIALIZATION FILED

MAY 13 1975

FBI-MIAMI

NW 88608 DocId:32989820 Page 251