regarding the teaching and demonstrating of explosive devices by BAMM leaders. In December, 1970, Federal Grand Jury in Miami, Florida, rendered indictment charging Featherstone and two other BAMM leaders with violation of the new antiriot laws. All three subjects have been found guilty in Federal court Miami. Featherstone and Charles Riley, Jr., another BAMM leader, have been sentenced to the custody of the Attorney General for periods of four and two and a half years respectively. The third subject, after testifying for the Federal Government, was placed on probation.

Earlier this year, one of our informants being operated by the Richmond Office reported on a conspiracy by leaders of the Washington, D. C., Chapter of the BPP and leaders of the Richmond Information Center (RIC), an affiliate of the BPP, to steal and transport weapons from Richmond, Virginia, to Washington, D. C. This informant reported on the theft of such weapons in Richmond and their subsequent illegal transportation to Washington, D. C., by this group.

As a result of this information developed and other investigation, two of the BPP leaders in Washington and three RIC leaders in Richmond, Virginia, were subsequently indicted by a Federal Grand Jury.

Our informant testified in Federal court as the principal Government witness resulting in the conviction of the two Washington, D. C., leaders and two of the RIC leaders. The trial for the fifth individual involved is scheduled for 8/20/71 in Richmond. The sentencing of the convicted leaders is scheduled in the near future.

As a result of the conviction obtained based on the excellent information furnished by our informant, the RIC has been completely destroyed and conviction of the two Washington BPP leaders has been highly significant in curtailing the activity of the Washington, D. C., BPP Chapter.

The continued operation and development of extremist informants has resulted in a steady flow of valuable intelligence information, which information has brought about the apprehension

NWL 88608 DocID:32989638 Page 82