10. An Argentine trainee who arrived in Cuba early last July and left in late December has described in some detail his experiences in Cuba during this period. He was first approached by an Argentine pro-Castro leader last June as to whether he would be interested in taking courses in Cuba on guerrilla warfare and "city fighting." After several days he agreed. With three other Argentines, none of them orthodox Communists but all of them radicals, he left Buenos Aires on about 1 July. He traveled by way of Uruguay, Chile, Brazil, and Trinidad to Cuba. In Chile, the Cuban embassy supplied him with travel money and "complimentary visas" to enter Cuba. He arrived in Havana on 5 July. During most of July he had little to do as a group of about fifty gradually collected at a camp near Havana. They eventually protested this lack of action and were visited by Fidel Castro, who apparently came to assure them that their program would shortly get underway. On 30 July they began a series of marches into the woods somewhere in the Organos mountains in Pinar del Rio province under the command of two Cuban officers. Most of his activity between August and October seems to have been concerned with guerrilla training. Training with him were 34 others, most if not all of them apparently Argentines. There were political disputes among them, particularly concerning the pro-Communist Argentine Peronist leader John William Cooke, a political exile in Cuba who apparently had some degree of authority over the Argentine trainees but who was resented by them.

11. During the October crisis the entire group "volunteered" to join the militia in defense of the Cuban revolution "threatened by Yankee invasion." After the crisis eased, they began classes in "political economy" taught by a Spaniard named "Guillen." These classes were held daily for eight days until 5 November, when the group was again sent into the field for guerrilla training. They engaged in firing practice, with various types of weapons, including rifles and bazookas. On 14 November they were moved to a new area for a new course in "guerrilla tactics." This included practice in hanging hammocks, digging trenches, making wire entanglements, as well as exercises in the mountains. During this period, some members of the group rebelled against taking another long march in the rain. The Cuban officers tried to discipline