Special Agent Seymour Phillips

November 25, 1975

Page Three

Q - Any directions I had given to Rowe to attend political campaigns and/or disrupt them?

A - Did not recall such.

Q - Knowledge of any Klan violence in which Rowe participated?

A - None recalled but explained that due to his personality he could not look like an angel.

Q - Did I ever tell Rowe that the FBI had declared war on the Klan?

A - No, but elaborated he was well aware of the FBI's interest in solving the various bombings throughout Alabama.

Q - My reaction to the fact that Rowe was a member of the Klan's Security Detail and one of Bobby Shelton's bodyguards?

A - Explained that the fact that he elevated in the Klan's ranks was a concern of mine and the FBI's. We wanted him put where he would be able to furnish valuable information, but restrained him from rising to any executive position in the Klan.

Q - Testimony that Rowe had given the Committee that there were certain Birmingham police officers who were involved with the Klan?

A - Because of the general possibilities, any information he furnished was disseminated only to certain known reliable police contacts. I pointed out to them the delicate nature of most of Rowe's information and the fact that it could not be disseminated by memo, form to all department employees of any agency.

Q - Another question regarding attendance at political meetings with the direction that Rowe persuade the Klan to take a certain position for candidates?

A - No such directions ever made.

Q - What was the scope of Rowe's assignment as a Klan informant?

A - To obtain and report any or all intelligence information he could determine.

Q - Any directions given Rowe about Matt Murphy, a candidate for police commissioner in Birmingham?

A - Was not at all familiar with Murphy other than hearing the name by Kelly who commented from his memo that the question pertained to something that occurred after I left the FBI.

Q - When I was assigned to handle Rowe what was my recollection of his reputation and value to the FBI?

A - That he was known to the Department of Justice and the FBI as the top Klan informant and that he was in the position to furnish vital information to the government.