(e) With respect to request no. 8, the Committee would hold in abeyance such a request until the FBI provides a list of the most appropriate case agent(s) in the office of origin for the several Klan organizations in existence. In 1967 and 1968. (While such was not part of the understanding reached at the time of the meeting with FBI officials, the Committee would request however that all materials related to the United Klans of America US for the period 1965 and 1966 be made ready for inspection by November 20, 1977.)

(f) With respect to request no. 8, the FBI would first advise the Committee as to the identity of other cities reporting on the White Citizens Council before a determination be made as to the final content of this request.

(g) With respect to request no. 25, the Committee will hold in abeyance such a request until the FBI makes available the most appropriate case agent(s) for the period in question.

(h) With respect to request no. 34, the Committee requests that only the thirteen "death threat" files on Dr. King be processed at this time, while a request for all other materials is held in abeyance until the FBI makes available the most appropriate case agent(s).

In addition, the Committee would also request that the following agents be notified and made available by the FBI:

(1) Special Agent William F. Kusch - New Orleans. Special Agent Thomas E. Duhadway - New Orleans

(2) Special Agent Jack B. Simpson - Memphis (ATLAW) Special Agent Richard H. Davis - Memphis (ATLAW) Special Agent Jack T. Beverstein - Memphis (ATLAW)

As a priority item, it is also requested that the FBI provide the Committee with the work or personnel records of the following three Louisville FBI agents for the month of September 1965:

(1) Robert Peters

(2) William Duncan

(3) Bernard Brown

We are primarily interested in those records reflecting events that occurred around the same date. The Committee would also ask that all three of the above-mentioned Louisville agents be made available for interview by the same date.