MEMORANDUM FOR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

In carrying out the Marxist-Leninist ideology of the Progressive Labor Party, the Worker Student Alliance members have repeatedly sought to become involved in labor disputes on the side of labor, join picket lines and engage in disruptive and sometimes violent tactics against industry recruiters on college campuses. For example, on February 18, 1970, several thousand demonstrators protested the presence of General Electric recruiters on the University of Michigan campus. (Worker Student Alliance members were included in the leadership of this demonstration which snowballed into city-wide violence and extensive damage occurred to banks and police cars in the areas.

This faction is currently very active in many of the major demonstrations and student violence on college campuses. It is making all-out efforts to assume leadership in the anti-war movement and is in the forefront of organizations maintaining steady agitation to stop military recruitment and abolish the Reserve Officers' Training Corps. During the current academic year over five hundred campus demonstrations have taken place. Over two thousand arrests have been made and there have been forty-one cases of attempted arson and four cases of bombing. Nearly two million dollars in damages have been inflicted to college facilities.

Last summer the Worker Student Alliance had a Summer Work-In project designed to infiltrate industry and it has made plans to rejuvenate this project this summer. Alliance leaders have repeatedly encouraged action against industrial concerns, both off and on campus with General Electric being the main target. New Left advocates are believed to be responsible for the bombing of General Electric offices in New York City on February 7, 8, 1970. On March 11, 1970, powerful bombs also destroyed the offices of three major corporations in New York City.

The leadership of the Worker Student Alliance is extremely security conscious at this time. Many of its leaders are traveling throughout the United States, especially the South, in an effort to promote the aims of the group, as well as directing agitation against universities and industry.