UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. McDermott-Enc. 1 - Mr. Wannall-Enc. 1 - Mr. Mintz-Enc.

DATE: 6-11-75

1 - Mr. Cregar-Enc. 1 - Mr. Hotis-Enc. 1 - Mr. Daly-Enc.

On 6-10-75, K. William O'Connor, Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, Office of the Deputy Attorney General, furnished Inspector John B. Hotis a copy of a letter from Senator Frank Church (D-Idaho) to the Attorney General dated 5-28-75, requesting any files or documents in the Department or the FBI concerning five members of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities. The files requested pertain to Senators Gary Hart (D-Colo.), Walter D. Huddleston (D-Ky.), Charles McC. Mathias (R-Md.), Walter F. Mondale (D-Minn.), and Robert Morgan (D-N.C.). Senator Church emphasized that the request is made pursuant to Senate Resolution 21, which established the Select Committee and not under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).

Mr. O'Connor also provided a draft of a proposed response to the Senator's letter by the Attorney General. General Levi pledges cooperation in this matter and suggests that the scope of the request should be clarified. He also states that while the request is not made under FOIA, exemptions in the Act indicate the kind of concerns the Committee might want the Department to bring to its attention before disclosure is made. The implication is that certain information in the files, particularly materials which would violate individual privacy may be withheld.

It should also be noted that the Attorney General intends to advise Senator Church that he is preparing the necessary materials and asks for early discussions to determine how best to proceed. Accordingly, it is felt that we should promptly review any files that might exist concerning each of the above-named Senators and be prepared to furnish appropriate information to the Attorney General upon request.

RECOMMENDATION: EX-115 REC-49

That the FOIA Section, Files and Communications Division, institute an immediate review of Bureau files for any documents or other records concerning each of the above-named Senators.

ENCLOSURE

Enclosure

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan