It is significant that we have been able to operate for many years in the development of live sources in foreign diplomatic establishments, both Soviet bloc and non-bloc, without encountering any serious incidents embarrassing to the FBI or the United States Government.

In assessing the product of such live sources in a number of instances in the non-Soviet field, State Department has requested that we restrict our efforts to American citizens. To a considerable degree, this has limited the effectiveness of our program in the non-Soviet field since U.S. employees of foreign establishments will normally not have access to top-grade data. Thus, especially in the non-Soviet bloc field we are not tapping the full potential which exists for high-level foreign intelligence. This can only be realized through the development of high quality sources.

Anagram Program

Anagram is code word for FBI program to penetrate foreign diplomatic establishments in U.S. for purpose of securing cryptographic material. This material is primarily of value to National Security Agency in its communications intelligence efforts. Since inception of program in 1954, we have conducted Anagram operations involving 38 different foreign countries and a total of 57 separate establishments. Approximately 10 FBI field offices have participated in the program. Our operations under this program have resulted in monetary savings to the Government estimated at better than $13,000,000 and it has provided data of incalculable intelligence value. While it has been of primary value to NSA, we have on occasion produced information of primary interest to the Bureau. For example, in April, 1963, we affected a successful penetration in the Polish field which produced material disclosing the activities of Polish Intelligence Service in this country.

Double Agents and Informants

In a number of instances, Bureau double agents and informants, developed to assist us in connection with our internal security and counterintelligence responsibilities, have been able to provide significant high-level information of foreign intelligence value.

For example, in the Soviet field, we have developed a number of top-level sources such as Fedora and Tophat who have provided current intelligence regarding the organizational structure, personnel, and operations of the KGB and GRU, both in the Soviet Union and abroad; a description of various technical equipment used by Soviet intelligence; data regarding current relations between the Soviet Union and Communist China; and data regarding Soviet foreign policy, political and military developments, etc. Similar information of foreign intelligence value has been developed through FBI informants, double agents and defectors-in-place operating against