UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

DATE: 8/1/75

1 - Personnel File - Seymor Phillips

1 - Mr. Hotis 1 - Mr. Daly

Michael Epstein, Staff Member, Senate Select Committee, requested that Staff interview be arranged with Seymor Phillips concerning the Bureau's investigation of Martin Luther King. He requested the interview be held at 10 a.m., 8/1/75. He was advised that this was not possible and that sometime next week would be more acceptable. It was agreed that the interview would be conducted at 10 a.m. on Monday, 8/4/75.

In view of the ongoing discussions between the Department, representatives of the King family, and the Senate Select Committee concerning Committee access to information concerning Martin Luther King, Michael Shaheen was contacted concerning this interview.

It was pointed out to Mr. Shaheen that Mr. Phillips had a great deal of knowledge concerning the King investigation and it could be assumed that information would be disclosed during interview which might contravene an agreement with the King family should such an agreement become perfected. Since the Department was to meet with representatives of the King family and Senate Select Committee members on 7/31/75, it was suggested that any decision concerning Mr. Phillips' interview be held in abeyance pending a resolution of this problem. Shaheen agreed.

Shaheen subsequently advised SA Daly that the meeting with the King family representatives, Senate Select Committee representatives and the Department had not resulted in an agreement. He said he had discussed the pending interview of Mr. Phillips with the Committee Staff representatives and they said they would furnish guidelines concerning the topics to be covered during the interview. Shaheen indicated these guidelines would be consistent with the King family's concerns regarding the production of information from Bureau files concerning King.

REG-102

JBH/PVD DATE TO 7/7/75 BY SPA Alm (8)

9 AUG 6 1975

84 1 1 1975 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 88608 Docid:32989626 Page 75