of CIA was about to join the Board meeting, and that it would be well for the Board to defer bringing up the NRO subject at this time. In this connection, Mr. Clifford stated that he had recently been visited by NRO Director McMillan who had expressed his views as to the NRO problem and would repeat them to the Board when he joined the meeting later in the day.

At 10:20 a.m. the Board meeting was joined by the Deputy DCI, General Carter (substituting for Mr. McCone). General Carter was accompanied by Mr. Knocke (who was introduced as substituting for Mr. Kirkpatrick who was in the Far East), and by Mr. Fitzgerald (referred to by General Carter as the CIA's expert on Cuba).

Mr. Clifford thanked the CIA officials for their attendance. He pointed out that today the Board was having its first meeting with President Johnson, therefore the Board would appreciate being brought up to date; would like to hear from General Carter on the topics which had been listed in Mr. Clifford's note to Mr. McCone; and would be glad to hear from General Carter on any matters which he might also wish to cover.

General Carter said that Mr. McCone's absence from the country prevented his meeting with the Board, but that he would endeavor to cover for Mr. McCone the various matters in which the Board had expressed an interest as set forth in Mr. Clifford's note to Mr. McCone dated January 16, 1964.

Turning first to the subject of Cuba, General Carter said that all sabotage efforts have been stood down; that the President and Secretaries Rusk and McNamara have some serious doubts about our policy toward Cuba; and that the question had been raised as to whether it is not hypocritical for the United States Government to talk peace while at the same time "waging war" against Cuba. General Carter added that when Mr. Bundy gets back from leave and when Mr. McCone returns from abroad the following Saturday,

Handle via Diplomacy Control System

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

NW 88192 Page 14 Doctd:34671877 Page 42