The purpose of this is (1) to provide for a centralized reporting of New Left activity in this field; (2) to enable us to keep abreast of funds utilized to finance these inflammatory speeches; (3) to enable us to take advantage of situations which could embarrass the New Left or stifle future activity; (4) to facilitate the necessary evaluation and analysis by the Bureau and other interested agencies. By letter dated 12/23/69 to all field offices, information concerning financial aspects of the New Left were emphasized, and the field was instructed to develop solid information concerning the travelling of Key Activists.

By airtel to SAC, Albany, and all offices dated 10/28/68, a program was instituted to obtain a comprehensive study of the whole New Left movement. Offices were instructed to prepare summary reports on the New Left movement in their territories. The purpose of these reports was to obtain a comprehensive study of the movement in order to assess its potential dangerousness. Following the submission of the original summary reports, offices were instructed to submit such reports on a quarterly basis with an appropriate breakdown of the material in the report: These reports enable the Bureau to maintain recent and comprehensive information concerning various aspects of the New Left movement: These reports are disseminated to interested agencies to enable them to maintain a clear picture of New Left movement.

SAC Letter 70-ll (E) dated 3/3/70 instructed field to discontinue submission of quarterly letter listing identities of New Left movement groups under investigation, coverage afforded each group and programs of each office to develop necessary coverage. This information in order to streamline paper work is now to be set forth in cover pages of New Left quarterly report.

By airtel to all offices dated 12/9/70 instructions were reiterated to the field concerning the preparation and content of New Left movement quarterly reports. The organizations to be included in this report were noted as well as the sub-headings to be utilized. A brief analysis of the current status of New Left activity in each Division is to be included in the cover pages of the report as well as the number of individual cases opened and closed concerning SDS members as well as members of pro-communist, militant New Left-type campus organizations who follow SDS advocacy of revolution and violence.