UNITED STATES C

Memorandum

TO : Mr. Belmont

FROM : C. A. Evans

DATE: July 7, 1961

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME AND RACKETEERING SECTION OF THE DEPARTMENT

DATE 10/20/61

In line with the Director's approval, the Attorney General was contacted this morning, July 7, 1961, relative to his observation as to the possibility of utilizing "electronic devices" in organized crime investigations.

It was pointed out to the Attorney General that we had taken action with regard to the use of microphone surveillances in these cases and while they represented an expensive investigative step, we were nevertheless utilizing them in all instances where this was technically feasible and where valuable information might be expected. The strong objections to the utilization of telephone taps as contrasted to microphone surveillances was stressed. The Attorney General stated he recognized the reasons why telephone taps should be restricted to national-defense-type cases and he was pleased we had been using microphone surveillances where these objections do not apply wherever possible in organized crime matters.

The Attorney General noted that he had approved several technical surveillances in connection with security-type investigations since he took office, but that he had not kept any record and didn't really know what he had approved and what surveillances were currently in operation. He said that for his own information he would like to see a list of the technical surveillances now in operation. He added that this could be brought over to him personally and that he would look it over and immediately return it because he realized the importance of having these records maintained under the special security conditions which only the FBI had.

If the Director approves, we will have the list of technical surveillances prepared, delivered personally to the Attorney General and then returned to the Bureau's file.

REC-3

1 - Mr. Sullivan 1 - Mr. J. D. Donohue

CAE:lds,

AUG 2 1961

NW 88608-DocID:32989645-Page-18