SA Bowen F. Rose (1-22-71 BFR:as)

The case of Eric Nelson, PSI, IS-R, was assigned to me on 12/17/70, therefore, I was not responsible for instruction or direction of the office of origin in this matter

prior to that date and it has not come up for review on tickler as yet. With regard to the case of Vladimir G. Azaryan, IS-R, this case is closed and has never been assigned to me.

With regard to questions raised by the Inspector, the following is set out.

It is presumed question one relates to our super- visory policy with regard to the development of informants to be targeted against Soviet officials and/or Soviet agents, not against our double agents. It is our policy to encourage informant development of as many individuals as possible against a Soviet target to provide the widest spectrum of information concerning his social, business and personal life in order to develop data essential for in depth defection analysis. In addition, we seek to identify those individuals whom the Soviets appear to be selecting for recruitment and to develop them to act in our behalf against the Soviets. Such highly controlled actions serve either to involve the Soviets in time consuming and costly operations in which they can only receive carefully selected and screened information or disinformation or may provide us the basis for effective counterintelligence actions against the Soviets, as is so well illustrated in the Azaryan case. Our supervision in the development of informants is accomplished through the close review and analysis of the periodic progress letters submitted on Soviet officials; the direction which we afford to contact cases and to the cases resulting from the DESECO Program.

As the result of an excellent counterintelligence effort formulated and carried out by the New York Office with Bureau guidance and direction, a defection approach was made to Azaryan by NY 5179-S on 6/4/70. This informant had previously been handled by Yuriy K. Kitaev, another experienced, aggressive KGB officer. As a result of this action, both Soviets departed the U. S. almost immediately. The loss of these two experienced operatives most certainly caused a serious disruption in the activities of the New York Residency of the KGB.