A. PURPOSE AND SCOPE

The purpose of this study is to define a new role for the Bureau in the field of clandestine collection of foreign intelligence in the U. S. This action is necessary and most timely because of our Government's vital need for increased foreign intelligence and because of CIA's expanding interests in the United States. There is a decided need for a new Bureau concept, the implementation of which could greatly increase our effectiveness and could deter CIA from becoming a threat to our operational interests.

The study encompasses a review of history as it relates to foreign intelligence collection in the U. S. Analysis is made of the need and the potential for such intelligence; the capabilities of the Bureau and CIA in this field; and the responsibilities of over-all (overt and covert) collection of foreign intelligence in the U. S. We have submitted our general findings, and we recommend a plan of action for a new Bureau role.

This study was not designed to eliminate once and for all the many problems relating to collection of foreign intelligence in the U. S. It would have been a Utopian objective to recommend a plan which would produce maximum intelligence collection, remove existing defects within the U. S. intelligence community, and establish complete harmony among interested agencies. We did not go that far. Careful and exhaustive analysis dictated that we endeavor to reach a reasonable goal consistent with prudent planning and sound operational implementation. We feel that the recommended plan meets such guidelines, that it is a decidedly major step forward for the Bureau, and it strongly conforms with the national security needs.

It should be noted that this document does not deal with our law enforcement or internal security functions, although it is fully recognized that internal security and clandestine collection of foreign intelligence are closely linked. Any plan on our part to produce foreign intelligence will affect our capabilities in the field of counterintelligence.