Memorandum to Mr. Tolson Re: Proposed Transfer of Supervisory Responsibility for Certain Cases from General Investigative Division to Domestic Intelligence Division

reassignment of the entire classification to DID should present no problems with respect to any division of responsibility or routing of communications. Experience gained thus far under apparent violations which the Bureau has been requested by the Department to investigate supports the close correlation of such violations with racial intelligence matters now handled by DID. If specific cases have been opened thus far and are now pending, The most recent involves allegations of police brutality during Democratic Convention in Chicago involving injury to over 70 police officers. Review of these cases disclosed them to be noncomplex in nature and in view of the current status of supervision and investigation, it appears most practicable for GD to retain the specific supervision of these if cases to their conclusion. Thus supervisory responsibility under this classification will be fixed at a clear cut-off point after which all new cases arising will automatically be routed to and supervised by DID from inception. No further guidelines appear necessary in this classification.

BOMBING MATTERS

A variety of different types of cases arises under this category and it will hereafter represent a split classification with those cases applicable to the overall fields of supervision in DID being handled by that Division and the remainder continuing under supervision of GD. Accordingly, specific guidelines have been drawn to delineate this division of supervisory responsibility and encompassed in an SAC Letter in order that the field may make appropriate designation on communications to facilitate routing at the Seat of Government. Upon adoption of the guidelines and the dual character coincidental therewith proper routing will automatically be achieved of new matters arising (this coordinated with Files and Communications Division).

Inspection Staff analyzed the various types of bombing cases handled during Fiscal Year (FY) 1968 and reviewed representative sampling of specific pending files. There are two major areas herein which appear proper and logical to delegat future supervisory responsibility to DID. These are bombing matters arising from foreign nationalistic interests and those arising from racial intelligence interests. The reasons are the same as heretofore cited, namely the overall familiarity within DID of aims and activities of organizations and groups involved as well as the following of activities of individual members of such groups and the respon sibility for the informant programs applicable to them. Other types of bombing cases not falling within the guidelines set forth hereinafter will remain with GD as in the past. Bombing matter violations (including threats) represent violations of Section 837, Chapter 30, Title 18. The violation is the interstate transportation of explosives with intent they be used for destruction of real or personal property which property is used for the objectives specified in the statute (educational,

NEW 88608 DocId:32989638 Page 246

DETAILS CONTINUED - OVER