4-E

In other positive moves we have arranged for a friendly newspaperman, who writes for Spanish-language newspapers in New York City, to prepare feature articles on Cuban defectors who have settled happily in the United States. In conjunction with State Department, we received concurrence of Secretary General U Thant of the United Nations to bar two strong-arm-type Cuban intelligence officials from United States territory even though neither had ever been in the United States or performed any known acts of violence against United States property or citizens. Mr. U Thant pointed out that this was a landmark action, as the United States had never before presented a case which warranted entry denials in the history of the United Nations.

Our around-the-clock coverage of Cuban intelligence activities has allowed us to identify, with a minimum of effort, the various extremist, New Left and subversive Puerto Rican independence leaders who maintain contact with the CMUN. Two valuable double agents in the Miami area have gained the complete confidence of a top Cuban collaborator based in New York City, and they are able to provide full details concerning Cuban Government military and civilian targets in the Miami area. One of these double agents is being groomed to make clandestine trips to New York City, and it is anticipated that we will receive valuable data concerning other Cuban Government targets when these trips materialize.

The field offices responsible for covering Cuban intelligence activities have consistently taken an imaginative approach to the problem, and supervisory personnel in the field and at the Seat of Government consistently strive to insure that all available tools are furnished the investigating Agents.

Subversive Puerto Rican Independence Matters

The terroristic Puerto Rican proindependence movement, responsible for over 230 incendiary bombings in Puerto Rico and over 40 in the New York City area since 1967, is a very real menace to major United States installations and to the security of Puerto Rico, as well as to the United States. While only a small minority of persons desiring independence for Puerto Rico is involved, we now have approximately 1,000 individuals marked for special handling in case of a national emergency, and a majority of these have been associated in some way with violent acts against public or private property.

The largest of the extremist Puerto Rican independence groups is the Puerto Rican Independence Movement (MPIPR), while others practicing violence are the Puerto Rican Socialist Workers