2. The types of gambling prevalent in the San Francisco Division are primarily wagering on horse races and sporting events. In addition, small numbers betting with a weekly drawing take place usually in the Spanish-speaking communities. There are also legal and illegal card games operating usually in low-income commercial neighborhoods. Gambling in the division is conducted by individual operators who are independent of each other, except for layoff purposes with respect to bookmaking and there are no indications of hoodlum control over any of these activities.

3. Concerning the extent of gambling in this division, bookmakers ECKSTEIN and LEAHY, named in Paragraph 1 above, operate in the following manner. Both are in daily contact with their accounts located in the Bay area which include other bookmakers for layoff purposes, split bookmakers, and numerous individual bettors.

Bets are placed with these operations generally at locations to which the general public has access, such as bars, restaurants, coffee shops, and other small shops. The "action" received at these business locations are in turn called in to a phone spot operated by a bookmaker who has a gambling relationship with the operator of the business.

ECKSTEIN normally operates with six employees, including two phone men, a bookkeeper, a pay & collect man, and two runners. In addition, he utilizes several split bookmakers as employees. The principal bookmakers and split bookmakers-involved in the ECKSTEIN bookmaking operations are THEODORE CHALMIS, ALBERT DIGERONIMO, ELBERT HEDRICK, MANNY PRONGOS, and ALBERT CARLSON. ECKSTEIN's monthly handle based on informant data, evidence seized by the San Francisco Police Department during recent bookmaking raids, and interviews of bettors is estimated to be approximately $50,000 for horse bets. His sports "action" varies with the season of the year and better interests in particular sporting events; however, ECKSTEIN's handle for sports action is estimated to be $40,000 per month.