ELINT. For example in connection with a Soviet missile shot on Kamchatka there was a suspicion that the test would include a Soviet anti-ICBM shot, but our Alaskan radar site was not alerted, the radars were not up, and we missed coverage of any anti-ICBM test. Mr. McCone agreed with Dr. Baker's observation that there is a relationship between the activities of the new Center and the responsibilities to be assigned under the Defense ELINT Plan, and the DCI added that there may well be resistance from some elements of the military.

Next Mr. McCone reported to the Board on the recent U-2 crash in the Gulf of Mexico. The whole plane has been found in 9 fathoms of water 40 miles NW of Key West. The ejector canopy is off and the seat is out. An empty life raft and parachute were found. There was no attack made on the aircraft. The pilot reported a successful mission over Cuba, he flew over the Key West station on the return trip and 10 minutes later he was down. When the wreckage is raised it should be possible to determine the cause.

Mr. McCone said that this exhausted the list of things he had in mind to discuss at this meeting.

Mr. Clifford asked if there were any intelligence facets of the arrest of U. S. professor Barghorn in the USSR. The DCI said that an analysis of the professor's debriefing had not yet been completed. He had no intelligence mission even indirectly, but was once a CIA consultant and the KGB knew that. No doubt this Soviet move was made because they had run out of pawns to use in obtaining an exchange for the Soviet spy Egeroff arrested in the U. S. As a matter of fact CIA had forecast that the Soviets would do something like this when they ran out of people to use in exchanges, Mr. McCone said.

At 12:15 Mr. McCone brought in Mr. Colby who was in charge of the CIA Station at Saigon for 5 years and more recently has been in charge of the

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

CORONA/OXCART/TAGBOARD/GAMBIT - 49 -

N.W.185... Docld:2493 Page 14 NW 88192

DOCL:34671878 Page 15