extensive background and experience regarding the nature and special vulnerabilities of the particular type of compartmented information involved.

Security Supervisory Programs to ensure that supervisory personnel recognize and discharge their special responsibility for maintaining the security of sensitive information. Such programs shall provide practical guidance as to indicators which may signal matters of security concern. Specific instructions concerning reporting procedures shall be disseminated to enable the appropriate authority to take timely corrective action to safeguard the security of the United States as well as to provide all necessary help to the individual concerned to neutralize his vulnerability.

Security Review: Programs to ensure that appropriate security authorities invariably receive and exchange, in a timely manner, all information bearing on the security posture of persons having access to sensitive information. Personnel history information shall be kept current. Security and related files shall be kept under continuing review. Departments and agencies shall develop security programs under which at intervals no greater than 5 years' checks are made with the Federal Bureau of Investigation as well as all relevant police and credit sources and, where feasible, each individual is given a personal interview by trained security or counterintelligence personnel.

15. Whenever indicated during the course of these Security Programs, appropriate investigations shall be conducted on a timely basis. In the absence of such indication the tempo of additional investigation shall be tailored by the adjudicating agency to the circumstances surrounding the individual under consideration as well as the breadth of knowledge and degree of sensitivity involved in his access. The investigation shall be sufficient in scope to ensure that continued utilization of the individual in activities requiring sensitive compartmented information is clearly consistent with the interests of the national security.

Effective Date

16. This Directive declares the policy of USIB concerning Uniform Personnel Security Standards and Practices for Access to Sensitive Compartmented Information. This policy shall become effective as soon as practicable after approval of this Directive but in no case later than 1 July 1968. Existing directives,2 regulations, agreements, and such other references governing access to sensitive compartmented information as defined herein shall be revised accordingly.

Richard Helms Director of Central Intelligence

2 These include pertinent provisions of the Clearance Standards and Investigation and Evaluation sections of DCID-6/3.