UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. Felt

FROM : T. J. Jenkins

SUBJECT: SUPERVISORY REORGANIZATION OF FUNCTIONS AND PERSONNEL CRIME RESEARCH DIVISION

DATE: January 3, 1973

Reference is made to the memorandum of Mr. Walters to Mr. Felt dated 12/14/72, in captioned matter. A review has been made of the units assigned to the Training Division from the former Crime Research Division, particularly the Research and Service Section. As you know,

has retired. I believe we can consolidate the Training Programs Processing Section and the Research and Service Section at FBI Headquarters into one section, calling it the Training Programs Processing and Research Section. This would eliminate one section chief.

As you know, we have recommended and it has been approved that the Library in the Crime Research Section be moved to Quantico. It is my proposal that the former Library Unit, what is left of it here at FBI Headquarters, be merged with the Research Unit leaving three units from the former Research and Service Section; namely, the Research Unit; Special Productions Unit and Publications Unit.

I have discussed with Mr. Callahan the transferring of the Suggestions, Forms, Reports Management, Manuals and Chief Clerk Matters to the Administration Division and he is agreeable. This would mean an addition to his division of one Special Agent and seven clerical staff. The remaining units presently in the Training Division would remain as is.

This would give the Section Chief of the Training Division stationed at FBI Headquarters a total of 18 Agents and 53 clerks under his supervision. I believe that current Section Chief [ ] is capable of handling this assignment as Section Chief, particularly if [ ] is retained as Number One Man of the Section. [ ] has served as Number One Man in the former Research and Service Section of the Crime Research Division.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.