UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. Adams

FROM : Legal Counsel

DATE: 4-10-75

SUBJECT: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

In connection with our investigations of staff members for captioned Committee, we have developed derogatory information on two individuals which has been brought specifically to the attention of William Miller, Staff Director of the Committee. One of these involved Mrs. Diane Eloise LaVoy whose sister-in-law questioned her loyalty and declared she "does not love America." The sister-in-law said Mrs. LaVoy constantly criticized the U. S. Government and its policy and underlying weaknesses of our society. Another individual said she was highly critical of CIA activities. This information was pointed out to Miller on 3-25-75 when the results of the investigation were delivered to him, and he also was advised that the CIA would be furnished the same data in accordance with our agreement concerning these matters.

On 3-24-75 and 3-28-75 results of the investigation concerning Mrs. Betty Dale Ellison were delivered to Miller and he was advised that a prior supervisor with eight years of training and experience in psychiatric care stated he felt Mrs. Ellison needs psychological examination. He termed her a troubled maker and said he would have fired her if he had the authority. He described her definitely as a security risk due to her mental and emotional instability. It also was pointed out to Miller that other former supervisors described her as unstable when working under pressure and unable to get along with fellow employees. Miller was told that this information also would be furnished to CIA.

On 4-2-75 Miller advised Inspector Bowers he had considered the matter involving Mrs. LaVoy and had discussed it with the Committee Chairman, and they had decided to proceed with her as a staff member since they did not feel the derogatory remarks by her sister-in-law were sufficiently strong enough to disqualify her since the remainder of the investigation was favorable.

REC-100

APR 22 1975

O 4 APR 29 1975

NEW 48608 DocID:32989628 Page 114

NCTC-MORC-CERTIFIED CC: ELECTRONIC SUBMITTING...