SUPERVISOR GLENN A. HARTER:

10/28/70

1) This office received a letter from the U.S. Attorney dated 6/24/69 wherein the U.S. Attorney advised that they would not undertake prosecution of minor theft cases. The letter set the guide as those cases of value of less than $100. This office has been following the interpretation of minor thefts as those having a value of less than $100. It was the judgment of this office that about all of the airport thefts involved amounts in excess of $100. It appears that an average loss at the airport would average an estimated $250, it being noted that the airline companies currently are paying up to $500 per bag. Therefore, these cases were not judged to be minor cases and had not been discussed with the U.S. Attorney as their value exceeded $100. In following this policy San Francisco believed that they were in compliance with Section 94 of the Manual regarding presentation of minor cases to the US. Attorney. In the future this office will immediately present cases of the type cited by the Inspector to the U.S. Attorney before any investigation is conducted and will consider suitcase type thefts as minor cases.

2) Submission of FD 302s. Regarding the fact that I had not detected that FD 302s were not included in the 25 files listed by the Inspector, I would like to explain that 13 of these files were opened after September 22 and I had not reviewed any of these files as yet on tickler and thereby would not have had an opportunity to detect the fact that the FD 302 was not listed. The remaining files have not all been available for review at this time but it is obvious that some of these files did not have FD 302s prepared promptly.

3) NCIC Entries. Three of the four files listed where NCIC entries had not been made had not as yet been reviewed on ticklers since they had been received in this office. One of the four files, 15-11994, reflects a suitcase claim check number which is not suitable for entry into the NCIC.

4) File 15-11981 was recommended to be opened by the Case Agent as he felt that this shipment involved personnel and circumstances which would be logically worked in connection with other existing TFIS cases and that it might be a lever for possible informant development. The Agent hoped to work this case even though it was not a Federal violation and obtain an