5. Since last inspection we have reduced one Agent from the complement of the Racial Reporting Unit as a result of various streamlining measures adopted relative to reporting requirements. This streamlining involved the elimination of a substantial number of letterhead memoranda and airtels previously required from each field office with regard to racial conditions and the elimination of daily cover memorandum to our outgoing racial teletype to the White House.

6. The authorized Agent complement for Section is considered adequate but not excessive at this time.

7. Criteria used in assessing personnel adequacy in this Section includes a number of diverse factors. Case load figures are not applicable to work of this Section nor are there any other simple, quantitative measurements of Section's work. Work of this Section involves primarily research and evaluation and the preparation of a variety of documents aimed at providing intelligence to the White House, the Attorney General, other interested agencies and Bureau officials. This Section seeks to summarize into comprehensive and meaningful "package" form information relating to current topics of intelligence interest and concern. The finished product is provided not only to other intelligence agencies and policy-making officials of the Government but, where appropriate, to our field offices for their information and guidance. The type of documents prepared varies from daily teletype summaries regarding racial disturbances and student agitation, to detailed monographs containing in-depth research into various facets of our work.

During the past year there has been a continuing demand for various intelligence summaries and this Section has been faced with a number of expedite projects on behalf of Bureau officials, including the Director, the White House, the Vice President's Office, and the Attorney General. Basis for this heavy work load has primarily been interest and concern in the explosive issues concerning racial and student disorders. The great majority of our projects have revolved around the preparation of material either for internal FBI use or for outside dissemination with respect to these issues.