The development of a highly placed informant, PH 1223-S, within the pro-Berrigan forces is also a significant accomplishment. This individual has gained the confidence of leaders in the Berrigan movement and is privy to information not available from any other source. The informant has furnished a wealth of information regarding fund raising and strategy and tactics planned by movement leaders to propagandize their position and to attempt to gain public support for the Berrigan cause. In the course of this coverage, the informant furnished information concerning plans of the group for action in the event parole was not granted to Philip and Daniel Berrigan on 7-28-71. He also furnished plans of the group to mount an attack on the Bureau of Prisons which culminated in a hunger-work strike at the Federal Correctional Institution, Danbury, Connecticut, on 8/6-7/71. This action resulted in the transfer of eleven inmates to the Medical Center for Federal Prisoners, Springfield, Missouri. We furnished plans of this proposed action to the Bureau of Prisons, and in a letter to the Attorney General dated 8-11-71, the Director of the Bureau of Prisons noted that the action of the inmates confirmed our intelligence reports received several weeks prior.

PH 1223-S also furnished information concerning the intention of the group to embarrass the administration by having Daniel Berrigan prepare the text for a Mass composed by musical conductor Leonard Bernstein. This Mass is to be part of the dedication ceremonies for the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D. C., and is to be performed on 9-9-71. The words prepared by Daniel Berrigan were to have been in Latin and were to follow an antiwar theme. The group anticipated the President and high ranking administration officials would applaud the work and subsequent publicity would be to the effect that they had applauded antiadministration views. This information was furnished the White House and, according to the news media, the President has declined to attend the ceremonies on 9-9-71.

PH 1223-S has also furnished information showing the Berrigan supporters are interested in obtaining classified material such as that publicized by Daniel Ellsberg in an effort to embarrass the Government. The individual who is to attempt to get these papers is Linda Shaw Finlay, an ardent supporter of the Berrigan cause. Her target is the Lyndon B. Johnson Library at the University of Texas, Austin, which is the repository for former President Johnson's papers. We have a separate espionage investigation underway regarding this situation.