(current practice calls for reinterview two years after initial interview). This is felt desirable since the alien who has immediate family and/or relatives residing in Red China is most susceptible to a recruitment approach and is more likely to be the type who has entered the United States on an intelligence mission.

7. We should consider issuing instructions to closely examine our UN sources to determine which may be logically directed to initiate contact with the Chicom Embassy in Canada. Contacts of this type, although they may indicate no immediate interest on the part of the Chicom, may well serve as a basis for a later approach by the Chicom, either before or after Chicom entry into the UN.

8. National Security Agency (NSA) representatives are of the opinion that the possibility exists that Chinese Intelligence Service is beaming broadcasts to agents in the United States or in border countries (Canada, Mexico). Under Bureau instructions, our San Diego Office recently monitored broadcasts on the basis of predictions made by NSA. Broadcasts undoubtedly emanating from Red China were heard during this monitoring and the clarity of the signal on our West Coast was excellent. Discussion with NSA led NSA representatives to observe that the broadcasts mentioned above might be connected with an illegal agent network, and they agreed to make a further study of this situation and provide us with additional sensitive material they have uncovered in order to determine if some tie-in could be developed. While this effort is a new one, and does not definitely establish that an illegal Chicom operation exists in this country, it is an indication that we should undertake action designed to uncover such a situation. In the absence of more specific data, we should consider at this time having field offices check warranty cards submitted by purchasers of certain radio equipment, primarily radio receivers capable of tuning in on broadcasts such as those mentioned above. This would involve identification of the equipment, its manufacturer and subsequent instructions to the field to check warranty cards on a regular basis for the purpose of determining names of ethnic Chinese who have submitted such cards. Inquiry should include developing background information on the purchaser and, in cases where warranted, conducting interviews.