It is noted the United Nations has considerable literature setting forth favorable information regarding accomplishments and the desirability of having a United Nations. It would appear appropriate to offset the literature sent out by the hate groups, by sending out favorable information concerning the organization or individual under attack.

(2) Any hate organizations tend to disguise their true identity under the pretext of being a religious study group. Using such a disguise, they find it easy and inexpensive to obtain the facilities of an established church to hold special or organizational meetings.

By using an appropriate pretext, such as a free lance reporter for the local paper, or through a reliable news contact, the individual responsible for the facility could be contacted shortly prior to the planned meeting. At this time, the true identity of the hate organization could be exposed, resulting in considerable disruption, especially if the use of the facilities are canceled at the last moment.

(3) Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of the "National Federation of Labor News," dated September, 1963, prepared and distributed by WILLIAM SOMERSETT, formerly UMI-607-C (RAC), Bureau file 66-16458. It is noted that SOMERSETT was formerly a Bureau informant for many years until he was discontinued November, 1961, in view of continuing evidence of indiscretion and use of poor judgment. Page 3 of this paper sets forth an article by SOMERSETT regarding the National States Rights Party (NSRP) and J. B. STONER. This article was prepared and distributed by SOMERSETT of his own volition, as a means of keeping the NSRP out of South Florida.

In September, 1962, and December, 1963, STONER spent several weeks in Florida, including visits to Miami and Vero Beach, Florida, attempting to organize and promote the NSRP. To date the NSRP has failed to gain any "foot hold" within the Miami Division. It is not known if this article was responsible for STONER's failure, however, it does represent a type of counterintelligence.