aspects involving France in the Vietnam situation, asked whether CIA had received advance intelligence from French sources concerning involvement of the French Government in Vietnam. General Carter said that none had been received, despite good CIA penetrations in Paris. Mr. Murphy found it difficult to understand why there had been no hard intelligence on this matter, particularly when there had been public statements by the French concerning France's neutralist objectives in Southeast Asia. General Carter said that effort there had been no evidence of a covert French/aginst the Vietnam regime.

Chairman Clifford asked whether there had been an improvement in the Vietnam situation. following the previous coup which overthrew the Diem regime. General Carter said that social reforms have been made but their timing and acceleration have been disappointing. He thought it too early to say whether the new regime will have the will and ability to intensify the fight against the Viet Cong. General Khanh has indicated to Ambassador Lodge a desire to retain General Minh in the new government. General Khanh also said that he saw no malfeasance on the part of the generals in the Minh regime although they were known to have cooperated with French intelligence in the past.

In answer to a question by Mr. Murphy, General Carter said there was no evidence that the murders of Diem and Nhu in the previous coup were motivating factors in the recent coup. General Carter answered Dr. Langer's question by saying that there is no hard evidence of an increased flow of supplies, arms and men into North Vietnam. (from Communist China).

Turning to the next item which had been indicated as of interest to the Board, General Carter referred to the question as to the desirability to separate the coordinating function of the DCI from the post of head of the CIA. Chairman Clifford interposed the comment that from its inception this Board had been concerned with achieving greater coordination and control over the total U. S. foreign intelligence effort, the Board still urges it,

Handle via DITEMAN

Control System

NWP89324

DoD:34671877 Page 47