SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, 34TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

November 7, 1975

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esq. Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination Office of the Deputy Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mike:

As a follow-up to our briefing of Assistant Director Wannall on November 6 concerning our proposed format and witnesses for public hearings on December 4-5 on the FBI's use of intelligence informants and sources, we would like to make the following requests.

As discussed in our meeting with Mr. Wannall, we invite the Bureau to submit a memorandum on its intelligence informant and source program that could be inserted in the record of the testimony of Bureau representatives at the hearing. This memorandum would enable the Bureau to present to the Select Committee a complete description of its program and to discuss the issues of particular interest to the Committee members. These include, for example, 1) the size, scope and purpose of the program, including an assessment of the program's cost and effectiveness, and the distinctions and relationships between the intelligence informant program and the Bureau's criminal informant activity; 2) the criteria that determine when an informant may be used in an organization or group; and 3) the program's command and control system, including the limits that are placed on the activities of informants and the type of information an informant or source is permitted to report to his handling agent and the Bureau. In addition, the memorandum would discuss possible legislation in the informant area, such as the imposition of a warrant requirement or additional administrative review. To permit the Select Committee members to study this memorandum in advance of the hearing and to discuss it with FBI representatives during their testimony at the public hearing, we request that the memorandum be submitted by November 24.

ENCLOSURE

NW 88608 DocId:32989550 Page:158

62-116375-1150