Cuba - Vilma Espin

Ecuador - Marta Feijóo

10. El Salvador - Letitia del Valle

Guatemala - Linda León

Honduras - Florencila Castro

13. Mexico - Clementina Batalla de Bassola

Nicaragua - Concepción Palacio

15. Panama - Lidia Eneida de Gil

Paraguay - Presentación Lezcano

17. United States of America - Name of president omitted

Uruguay - Julia Arévalo

Venezuela - Argelia Laya

Organizations Represented, by Countries:

Argentina

Women's Inter-Partisan Commission; Argentina Vanguard

Socialist Party, Women's Chapter; Co-ordinating Committee of the Peronist Movement, Women's Chapter; Women's Commission of the Communist Party; Argentine Women's Union; Labour Unions

Group; the 62 Organizations; Labour Unions' Unity and Co- ordination Movement; Sponsoring Committees for the Congress.

Bolivia

Sponsoring Committee for the Congress.

Brazil

Womens' Federation of Sao Paolo; Women's Interchange and Friendship Commission; Women's League of Guanabara State; Sponsoring Committee for the Congress.

Canada

Congress of Canadian Women; La Ligue de Femmes Canadiennes;

Fair Deal for Cuba Committee; Workers' Benevolent Association;

United Jewish Peoples Order; Ladies' Auxiliary Committee (represented by the Chairman); Russian-Canadian Women's Federation; United Ukrainian-Canadian Women's Association;

Peace Council Organization.

Colombia

Democratic Women's Union; Political Party of the Left;

Barristers' Society of Colombia; Liberal Revolutionary Movement; Sponsoring Committee for the Congress.

Costa Rica

Costa Rican Women's Alliance.

Cuba

Workers' Central Organization of Revolutionary Cuba; Union of the Communist Youth; High School Students' Union; University Students' Federation; Committees for the Defence of the Revolution; Movement for the Peace and Sovereignty of the Peoples; Cuban Women's Federation.

Chile

Workers' Single Central Organization; Women's Union of Chile;

Cuban-Chilean Institute of Culture; Women Workers' Union of the Telephone Company; Israeli Culture Center; Teachers' Labour Union;

Professors' Union; National Society of Professors; Bookstores' Labour Union; Sponsoring Committee for the Congress; National Committee of Young Chilean Women.

Ecuador

Women's Union of Guayaquil; Sponsoring Committee for the Congress; University Women's Association.