January 21, 1975

SENATE RESOLUTION 21—RESOLUTION RELATING TO INVESTIGATION AND STUDY OF GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES—PLACED UNDER "RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS OVER, UNDER THE RULE"

Mr. MANSFIELD: Mr. President, I yield to the distinguished Senator from Rhode Island.

Mr. PASTORE: Mr. President, I send to the desk a resolution and ask for its immediate consideration.

The VICE PRESIDENT. Is there objection?

Mr. HUGH SCOTT: Mr. President, reserving the right to object, I understand that this is the resolution having to do with the CIA.

Mr. MANSFIELD: With the intelligence community.

Mr. HUGH SCOTT: With the intelligence community.

Mr. MANSFIELD. I do not think we should emphasize the CIA too much, because it is the intelligence community. I think that should be understood...

The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will report the resolution.

The legislative clerk read as follows:

Resolved, to establish a select committee of the Senate to conduct an investigation and study of governmental operations with respect to intelligence activities.

Mr. MANSFIELD addressed the Chair.

Mr. HUGH SCOTT. Mr. President, I have reserved the right to object.

Mr. MANSFIELD. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent, so that it will be fully understood, that the resolution be read in full.

Mr. PASTORE. That is right.

The VICE PRESIDENT. The clerk will report the resolution in full.

The legislative clerk read as follows:

S. RES. 21

Resolved, To establish a select committee of the Senate to conduct an investigation and study of governmental operations with respect to intelligence activities and of the extent, if any, to which illegal, improper, or unethical activities were engaged in by any agency of the Federal Government or by any persons, acting individually or in combination with others, with respect to any intelligence activity carried out by or on behalf of the Federal Government.

Resolved, That (a) there is hereby established a select committee of the Senate which may be called, for convenience of expression, the Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities to conduct an investigation and study of the extent, if any, to which illegal, improper, or unethical activities were engaged in, by any agency or by any persons, acting either individually or in combination with others, in carrying out any intelligence or surveillance activities by or on behalf of any agency of the Federal Government.

(b) The select committee created by this resolution shall consist of eleven Members of the Senate, six to be appointed by the President of the Senate from the majority Members of the Senate upon the recommendation of the Majority Leader of the Senate, and five minority Members of the Senate to be appointed by the President of the Senate upon the recommendation of the Minority Leader of the Senate.

For the purposes of paragraph 6 of Rule

25 of the Standing Rules of the Senate, service of a Senator as a member, chairman, or vice chairman of the select committee shall not be taken into account.

(c) The majority members of the committee shall elect a chairman and the minority members shall elect a vice chairman and the committee shall adopt rules and procedures to govern its proceedings. The vice chairman shall preside over meetings of the select committee during the absence of the chairman, and discharge such other responsibilities as may be assigned to him by the select committee or the chairman. Vacancies in the membership of the select committee shall not affect the authority of the remaining members to execute the functions of the select committee and shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments to it are made.

(d) A majority of the members of the select committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but the select committee may affix a lesser number as a quorum for the purpose of taking testimony or depositions.

SEC. 2. The select committee is authorized and directed to do everything necessary or appropriate to make the investigations and study specified in subsection (a) of the first section. Without abridging in any way the authority conferred upon the select committee by the preceding sentence, the Senate further expressly authorizes and directs the select committee to make a complete investigation and study of the activities of any agency or of any and all persons or groups of persons or organizations of any kind which have any tendency to reveal the full facts with respect to the following matters or questions:

(1) Whether the Central Intelligence Agency has conducted an illegal domestic intelligence operation in the United States.

(2) The conduct of, domestic intelligence or counter-intelligence operations against U.S. citizens by the Federal Bureau of Investigation or any other Federal agency.

(3) The origin and disposition of the so-called "Huston Plan" to apply United States intelligence agency capabilities against individuals or organizations within the United States.

(4) The extent to which the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Central Intelligence Agency,