INTERNATIONAL BLACK WORKERS CONGRESS, aka BLACK WORKERS CONGRESS

Budfile 157-21532

The International Black Workers Congress (IBWC), which is in its formative stages, is dominated by James Forman, an official in the black revolutionary Student National Coordinating Committee. The IBWC makes its headquarters in Detroit, Michigan, at the same locale as that of League of Revolutionary Black Workers, a black extremist labor union in that city.

IBWC is involved in the organizing of black workers and students to further the revolutionary struggle in the United States and other parts of the world as well as for the purpose of building unity among all third world peoples. IBWC's stated objective in organizing black workers is to bring about a national work stoppage, thus severely damaging the United States economy. James Forman has repeatedly stressed the necessity for blacks to be organized to change the capitalistic system to that of a Marxist-Leninist society through seizure of state power.

The IBWC held a regional meeting in Gary, Indiana, in June, 1971, at which discussions centered around organizing black workers into a Marxist-Leninist society and preparations for a drive to organize blacks employed in the steel industry and in the "U. S. Post Office." It was indicated that IBWC would receive assistance from the pro-Chinese Communist Progressive Labor Party (PLP) in the form of advice concerning organizing activities,

An IBWC conference tentatively scheduled to be held in Detroit on August 21 - 22, 1971, has apparently been canceled. Indications are that the conference site has been shifted to Chicago, Illinois, where the conference will be scheduled within two weeks.

It is particularly significant to note IBWC leader James Forman, together with other United States black extremists, including affiliates of the League of Revolutionary Black Workers, recently undertook travel abroad which was to include visits to North Korea, North Vietnam, the Soviet Union, and Algeria.