hung over America. Anti-German, anti-Italian and anti-Soviet sentiment swept over the country. People began to look for spies under their beds. It became very necessary to direct the Nation's energies in that regard into a single channel. We could not have every police officer, sheriff and special deputy sheriff in the country running around investigating spies. By the same token, it was very necessary for the Government's resources to be directed towards identification and neutralization of very real espionage rings and potential saboteurs. The June, 1939, directive assured that the FBI would take charge of domestic internal security instead of several agencies working at cross purposes. The September, 1939, directive placed local law enforcement on notice and simultaneously provided for information of possible value to be funneled to the FBI which was responsible for the coordination and investigation.

The September, 1939, directive, although not conveying any investigative authority to the FBI, did result in an additional workload for the FBI by virtue of the fact that local police and other Federal agencies were referring matters to the FBI for investigative attention which were not previously called to our attention. While some of the matters could be logically fit into one of the statutory crimes of espionage, sabotage or neutrality regulations, others could not be since the original information was often nonspecific or so nebulous that it could be categorized only after some inquiry was made locally.

We were also faced with the reality of war and the fact that Germany, Italy, Japan and the Soviet Union had espionage apparatuses directed against the United States. While we might not ordinarily institute an investigation before the commission of a crime, such as the case of a bank robbery, motor vehicle theft, etc., the crimes of espionage and sabotage relate to the national security. It would have not only been folly, it would have been insane to wait until we had evidence of the commission of crimes of espionage or sabotage. Rather than wait until we had a complaint alleging the commission of one of these crimes we went out and conducted intelligence-type investigations to determine if there were espionage rings operating or if there were persons conspiring to sabotage the national defense. So the September, 1939, directive did affect our investigative operations. Not by giving us some new investigative authority, but by assigning us the responsibility of coordinating all investigative activity in this regard. We were, of course, already in the intelligence-gathering business as a result of the confidential arrangement agreed upon in August and September, 1936, among President Roosevelt, Director Hoover, and the Secretary of State.