The growth in communist-bloc intelligence representation over the past several years, not only in the United States but also throughout the rest of the world, is statistically and operationally demonstrable. For convenient reference there is attached to this paper a fact sheet documenting this growth based on information recorded by the CIA and FBI. In considering the number of communist-bloc nationals posted to official establishments outside their countries, it is important to recognize that a substantial proportion of these are intelligence officers. These officers have a primary mission to conduct intelligence operations and official duties involved in their cover positions, if required at all, are secondary and serve mainly to legitimize their cover. In the Soviet case, it is an estimate accepted by the United States intelligence community that at least 40 per cent of the officials are intelligence officers. Indeed, some defector sources have estimated that 70 per cent to 80 per cent of Soviet officials have some intelligence connection, although this figure includes officials who act only in a minimal support capacity and only occasionally.

The most effective way to achieve the counter-intelligence purpose is to recruit personnel from hostile secret services. It is also the hardest of counterintelligence tasks, a goal usually requiring years of close study and meticulous planning. Even if the effort succeeds, we cannot accept at face value what the penetration source tells us. His reports must be most carefully crosschecked against everything known from all other sources. Otherwise we may be duped by an adversary who uses "our" agent to tell us what he wants us to hear.

If there is no penetration of the adversary, or none at the level of seniority, all the other sources (hostile agents whom we have detected and "doubled," inter-cepted communications, defectors, etc.) become all the more important.

If counterintelligence is to identify and then contain or control secret action directed against the United States, it must be closely coordinated. The adversary services do not run uncoordinated, haphazard operations