3. We could endeavor to work out a c... lusion of responsibility and work in this area whereby the Bureau and CIA would each have certain primary areas of operation. For example, the FBI could make known its willingness to contribute more heavily in support of U. S. foreign intelligence collection efforts and propose this field be broken into two categories; namely, technical coverage (this would include and live informant development among foreign diplomat... We could proposo that tho FBI continue to operate exclusively in the first category (technical coverage) With CIA continuing to stay entirely out of this field.

In this regard, the Bureau is better equipped than CIA to handle technical surveillances and by reason of our long experience and expertise in this area.

With regard to the second category (live sources) we could propose that CIA conduct no operations involving countries where the Bureau's counterintelligence interests are paramount or significant. This would include the Sino- Soviet-bloc countries and could also include certain other countries, such as the Dominican Republic, where we have already developed strong capabilities or where there are unique factors.

With regard to other countries (non-Bloc), we could propose that CIA should assume primary responsibility for developing live diplomatic sources. However, this would be with the clear proviso that, in the event the FBI should develop significant internal security interests, we would have the prerogative of levying requirements on CIA sources, having direct access to CIA sources when needed, or as a final step, developing our own sources if CIA could not satisfy our needs.

This alternative plan would not involve as much manpower or other expense to the Bureau as our recommended plan. However, it would involve our approval of CIA operations in the live informant field and would risk CIA infringing on FBI interests. It is our consensus that this approach not be adopted.

4. "We could recommend that the FBI could withdraw entirely from the field of covert foreign intelligence collection allowing CIA to handle all aspects, including...

and both live and technical coverage. We are strongly opposed to such an approach on the grounds that it would drastically diminish the FBI's role in the intelligence community, would give CIA carte blanche to operate in the U. S., and in many instances would certainly result in CIAs compromising on internal security and counterintelligence operations.