The present policy is to support the legality of the President's authority to conduct this surveillance without warrant, to restrict disclosure of the existence or contents of such surveillances, and presumably, to support the argument that any evidence obtained from such surveillance is admissible in a criminal proceeding.

These issues are discussed very well in the Government's petition for rehearing in U.S. v. Ivanov, attached. Also attached is a classified memorandum summarizing the case up to the petition for rehearing.

Until these issues are resolved, consideration of future policy options would be speculative, and may be unnecessary.

Domestic national security cases:

The FBI Intelligence Division feels there is something of intelligence value to be gained from electronic surveillance coverage of some domestic groups. The opinion of former Assistant Attorney General Olson and Deputy Assistant Attorney General Maroney is that there is no need to utilize this type of electronic surveillance and therefore no need to seek enabling legislation at this time, but that if a need does appear the Government will seek such legislation.

The examples set out in the classified appendix to the attached study show the value that can be derived from intelligence coverage of domestic groups. Is information of this type worth the financial manpower expenditure (which is considerable) to obtain it? Is it worth the task of trying to write enabling legislation (providing for judicial review to satisfy Keith) to allow intelligence electronic surveillance in domestic cases? Is it worth the fearsome battle such a bill would cause in Congress? Does such a bill have a chance at this time, or in the foreseeable future?

Upon reconsideration, the blanket pessimism on chance for passage of such legislation in the attached study seems extreme. It is believed that the Department and the FBI should attempt to write a bill, with as restrictive judicial control as necessary in order to obtain Congressional approval, to permit intelligence electronic surveillance against domestic groups which threaten death or "extensive damage" (to be either defined or specifically enumerated, e.g., plane hijackings, bombings,