(continued)

placing himself in absolute control without heeding the ideological postulates of the movement; and his failure to live up to the standards he had set up for the organization.

The "Miami News", Miami, Florida, 7/5/64, reported that on the previous day, Artime ordered all his men to report to South American training camps immediately.

On 7/9/64, M.H. Redmon (protect identity), INS Investigator, Miami, advised that the MRR had closed its Miami headquarters and moved to Central America, but had established a secret underground office somewhere in Miami. On 8/4/64, Redmon stated that numerous MRR members went to Central America to join Artime during July, 1964 and that the MRR claimed it would move all of its records and equipment out of Miami by chartered airplane to Artime's headquarters in Central America. The MRR had a large ship that operated between Central America and New Orleans, Louisiana. The ship, name unknown, was operated by a cover company using letterhead stationery containing the following: "Maritima Bom, S.A., Coconut Grove Bank Building, Suite 309, Miami, Florida, Phone # 444-5781-82." This company also claimed to have Post Office boxes in Panama and Nicaragua. Sixto Mesa was listed as President.

On 7/28/64, Carlos Zarraga Martinez (protect identity), PSI under development, advised that the rank and file MRR members continued to severely criticize Artime for maintaining his mistress, Adelaida Padron Cruz. She reportedly had great influence over Artime and some of his decisions concerning the MRR's operations had been influenced by her and objected to by the general membership.

On 8/18/64, Miguel Dotres, 8418 N.W. 24th Avenue, Miami, advised that in late March or early April, 1964, Aldo Vera Serafin, head of an anti-Castro organization (not further identified), conferred with Artime and brought his organization into Artime's organization. Dotres furnished information indicating that Artime was against Baro's proposal that the MRR be headed by a 7-man board; also, that the Cuban exile community doubted that Artime was a factor which eventually would figure in the overthrow of the present Cuban Government.

97-4133-115 encl.p.1-8 (5,32)

(continued)