Counterintelligence

Electronic surveillances assist our counterintelligence efforts by providing personality data and information regarding the contacts and activities of known and suspected foreign intelligence officers. This information assists in planning counterintelligence activity, assessing defection potential, analyzing routines and patterns, conserving manpower, and in directing sources against these officers.

SENSITIVE FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION

There are currently 165 known and 70 suspected Soviet intelligence officers, and 72 known and 43 suspected Soviet-bloc intelligence officers in the United States.

Examples of information obtained via electronic surveillance of value to our counterintelligence responsibility are as follows:

An individual was detected in contact with a hostile intelligence service in September, 1972. He expressed a desire to defect and to offer information regarding United States naval intelligence to which he had access. Although the interception did not give us his name, it provided sufficient information to conduct an investigation which established his identity, confirmed that he had been engaged in very sensitive naval communications intelligence, and disclosed that he was a fugitive, wanted on local charges. He was arrested on November 23, 1972.

In one case, electronic surveillance furnished information, within four days of its installation, of a contact between an official of the Soviet Illegal Support Branch and an individual who appears to be a Soviet illegal agent.

Electronic surveillance furnished information concerning an attempt in 1969 by a United States serviceman to defect to the Soviets.

An example of the value of electronic surveillance coverage in foreign terrorist matters involved an Al Fatah leader formerly in the United States. In the Summer of 1972 he departed this country for a visit to the Middle East. He later applied for a reentry permit which was denied. In late November, 1972, a telephone surveillance disclosed a contact by an individual suspected to be the Al Fatah leader. An

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION/NO DISSEMINATION ABROAD

- iii -