While the following is not pertinent to your request, my review of this case suggests the advisability of a re-examination of Riha's disappearance and past activities and, necessarily, the Tannenbaum case. Briefly, since 1958 we have communicated to your Bureau significant information which relates to Riha's involvement with Czech and Soviet intelligence services, when he was behind the Iron Curtain. I attach for your information and convenience copies of pertinent reports regarding this aspect of the case.

I hope sincerely that this recent incident will not impair our mutual efforts in making certain that we have not overlooked factors possibly having a significant bearing on U.S. intelligence and internal security interests. I shall pursue this matter through our respective liaison offices.

In closing, Mr. Hoover, I wish to state that this Agency can only fully perform its duties in the furtherance of the national security when it has the closest coordination and teamwork with the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Furthermore, it is necessary that we continue to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect. I trust that we can coordinate closely any future developments or actions in these cases, in order to prevent the airing in public of conflicts or differences between the two agencies. I feel strongly that there are representatives of the news media who are eager to exploit alleged differences on a national scale. Disturbing as this experience has been, I wish to thank you in the interests of our common cause for having communicated with me in such a forthright and candid manner.

Attachments - a/s

This is not satisfactory. I want our Denver office to be absolutely assured we are contacted within C.A. to let us know what is going on. I want drives to be evaluated by JCS as to whether they are in agreement with JCS' recommendations and if not, get me a better one. Please let me know. This does not appear to be satisfactory.

Richard Helms Director

NW 88614 DocId:32989606 Page 64