"friendly" or "neutral" country embassies in Washington in the early 1940's and frequently referred to the fact that this was being done by OSS with knowledge that its jurisdiction in this country was based only on the theory that a foreign Embassy is not American soil and is technically outside the jurisdiction of the FBI, which had full jurisdiction for counterintelligence in the western hemisphere.

Our file on the OSS is replete with incidents indicating OSS recruitment and counterespionage activities in this country during the early 1940's.

By memorandum dated May 22, 1945, Stanley J. Tracey, advised of a conversation overheard between two high-ranking State Department officials. The conversation dealt with OSS attempts to take over Bureau SIS operations in Latin America with one of the State Department officials, Aura Warren, stating that officials of OSS felt that organization was better equipped to handle work than FBI personnel attached to various American Embassies in South America. In response to this attempt of OSS to take over our duties, the Director commented: "I would like to know where Warren got this. According to Ladd our contacts in State Department have no knowledge of such OSS efforts. Also Tracey should point out it is State Department duty to initiate it as we would 'service it' and the State Department in fact started the SIS project. H" (62-64427-1059.)

An interesting evaluation of OSS operations is provided in a report prepared by Colonel Richard Park of the War Department as a result of a survey of OSS operations made as a special and confidential mission for the President in 1944 and 1945. Colonel Park commented: "Without going into details I was everywhere left with the same impression of utter incompetency on the part of OSS leadership....

"Everywhere that the subject of OSS came up, unsolicited remarks clearly brought out the very well known amateurish nature of the organization.

"The OSS has been restricted from active operations in South America by Presidential directive...."

Despite the absence of any jurisdiction in or responsibility for counterintelligence operations in the western hemisphere, an officer of OSS was reported to have