Mr. W. C. Sullivan

August 16, 1971

G. D. Brown

ADJECTURE OF PERSONAL DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION (DID)

To attached memorandum Warrall to Brown 8/12/71 requesting one additional supervisor to approved from outside DID for the Foreign Liaison Team (FLOT) because of a heavy increase in work volume.

I agree expansion of our Legal offices has produced work increases which would justify additional supervisors on FLD. However, in regard to Warrall's recommendation conducted in by the Brand Chief, Inspector D. E. Moore, that it should come from outside DID, I am mindful of the Inspection Division's control of work in DID during week of 7/10/71 following request for additional supervisors in Impenium Section. The Inspector concluded that the present supervisory capabilities of DID are adequate to handle existing work.

The Inspection Division's analysis of work in DID as of 7/1/71 compared with last inspection in January, 1971, revealed a stability of overall responsibility from a core load standard above by the last average case load per supervisor in January was 328 and in July 300. Warrall's average case load in January per supervisor was 273 and in July 894—an average rise of only 8 cases in the Division and of only 16 cases in Warrall's section in six months. (206 cars)

Ordinarily, I would point out to both Inspector Moore and Warrall those factors mitigate against requesting additional supervisors from outside DID. Inspector Moore had access to same facts and could have explained to Warrall how road to follow traditional patterns in request an additional man, i.e., adjusting within the Division's overall max power and work load transmissibility of capabilities and responsibilities. The obvious answer is for Warrall to reassign a man from within his section to the FLD. This would (1) alleviate the work load there and, (2) drink his case load closer to the Division's supervisory average for men, at the end of 90 days he could then reassess his situation and consider any action the facts then warrant.

However, the significance placed on our recent Legal expansion may be an overriding factor to the Inspection Division or Mr. Telt who enclose

Cullins (9) 1 = H. Sullivan 1 = L. Kinn 1 = R. Cullinaa 1 = L. Schack 1 = G.D. Brown NW. 88608:DocId:32989638 Page 304

289