A. RESPONSIBILITIES AND SUPPORT

In treating with Congressional inquiries, the Director of Central Intelligence will provide leadership to the Intelligence Community. The Associate Deputy to the DCI for the Intelligence Community, supported by the Intelligence Community Staff, will provide the principal staff direction and congressional liaison for the DCI in these matters. He will serve as a focal point for coordination among Community entities and assure communication with the Executive Office as appropriate. The IC Staff with the assistance of USIB Agencies will provide legal, security, substantive, and registry support structured so as to assure appropriate support to the DCI and the Intelligence Community. The AD/DCI/IC will chair an Ad Hoc Coordinating Group of USIB as a principal mechanism for exchanging information and coordinating USIB activities with respect to the inquiry where needed. The AD/DCI/IC and the USIB Ad Hoc Coordinating Group will establish periodic and special time sensitive reporting to keep the DCI, the USIB principals, and involved Executive Branch agencies advised on USIB Agencies' liaison relationships with the Select Committees and on substantive exchanges in response to Select Committee inquiries. Where useful, common standards and procedures will be developed by the USIB Ad Hoc Coordinating Group.

B. COORDINATION

1. Physical security is proceeding well. The Chairman of the Security Committee of USIB has been assigned as the principal Intelligence Community officer on physical security and clearance matters. Agreements have been reached with the Senate Select Committee on physical security standards. These standards have been provided to the House Select Committee Staff. The Senate has arranged for central facilities which meet the physical security standards and has appointed a full-time security officer who will provide certification of personnel clearances. The House at the present time is not planning central facilities and we understand will be dispersed in at least three different locations.

Discussion of classified information will occur outside of the security-approved Committee rooms and particularly in the offices of the members of the Select Committee. Agreement has been reached that the FBI will approach the House and Senate Staff Directors and offer technical sweep services for the Congressional offices involved.