influence on the choice of properties made available to the Soviets. As a result of our action it appears almost certain that the Soviets are settling on a property considered by us to offer the best advantage for counterintelligence coverage.

In late January, 1971, we furnished information to State Department and White House concerning activities of a very aggressive KGB officer in Washington, D. C., who was attempting to obtain equipment involved in a classified communications system used by White House and other agencies. We suggested to State that subject be declared persona nongrata and State, after securing concurrence of White House, decided instead to personally admonish a representative of the Soviet Embassy concerning these activities. This action resulted in curtailing the Soviet's intelligence activities and probably resulted in his early recall.

A Soviet attached to the staff of the new Consulate General in San Francisco came to our attention as a KGB officer who had formerly been stationed in China. He had been declared persona nongrata and expelled from Peking with some publicity. This information was furnished by us to a cooperative newspaper source in San Francisco and resulted in a newspaper article which repeated the charges. Considerable embarrassment was caused and long range curtailment of this Soviet's intelligence activities is hoped for.

V. Prosecutive Action

One objective of counterintelligence investigations is prosecution. Since most intelligence officers have diplomatic immunity, this objective is rarely attained.

A Soviet intelligence officer operating under cover of employment at the United Nations Secretariat has requested classified information from a double agent regarding the F-14 aircraft being manufactured by Grumman. The facts have been presented to the Department of Justice and Department of State and both have approved investigative action. The Soviet was scheduled for arrest during May, 1971, but this action

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 8/19/71 EWL:pdr 4-E