who is a member of the klan organization. These calls would be limited to those instances where the klan member is on, or about to be concerned about the picture they present to the public concerning racial matters.

In view of the previously expressed desires of the officials of the Knoxville Police Department to maintain racial harmony in Knoxville, it is believed that arrangements could be made with the Chief of Police to have one or more squad cars visible in the vicinity of the meeting hall of the Knoxville Klavern on the nights of their meetings. It is believed that if the members saw these squad cars parked in the vicinity on a continuing basis, it would cause them some apprehension and would act as a deterrent to their activities, as well as possible recruitment of new members.

The UKA, KKKK often holds public meetings on private property leased for that purpose. At these meetings, officials make speeches and invite spectators to make application for membership. Informants report that the actual purpose of such a meeting is to publicize the klan and secure new members. In a few instances, informants have reported that some members arriving at the meetings have intentionally covered their license plate with a confederate flag metal insignia or with a facsimile. On occasions, both the rear and front license plates have been obscured or usually only the front license obscured. It is believed through the cooperation of the Highway Patrol on a command level, that patrolmen might be assigned to the area where the meeting is held so that if the klan members leaving the meeting continue to have their license plate obscured, they may be arrested for violation of the state law prohibiting such.

In connection with the informant program of the Knoxville Office, certain persons are interviewed to ascertain their cooperation and their potentials as a possible informant. It is believed that in such cases where antagonism is shown to the Agents' contact, that a later anonymous call might be made to other members accusing the person contacted by the

NWL 88608 DocID:32989629 Page 73