THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON.

January 26, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Cuba

In the course of the Board meeting of January 25, 1963, the Board members and Mr. Coyne met at the State Department with the Secretary of State, Assistant Secretary Alexis Johnson and Mr. Roger Hilsman, Director of Intelligence and Research, Department of State.

Utilizing the memorandum (copy attached) which contained a series of questions which had been drafted earlier in the day by the Board, the Board members elicited Secretary Rusk's views on a variety of intelligence subjects pertaining to the pre-buildup and post-buildup period in Cuba.

At the outset Secretary Rusk stated that the two Administrations must share the responsibility for Cuba and that each in turn has taken full responsibility for what was done or what was not done during their respective Administrations. He noted that Cuba is a national problem; that because of it "we came up to the edge of incineration in the Western Hemisphere"; and that he personally has a deep anxiety over the question as to where we go from here. He observed that in the case of a Communist take-over in Cuba or anywhere else, it is easier to prevent the occurrence than it is to correct it once it has taken place.

The Secretary was queried as to whether he agreed with the Board's present finding that from October 14 onward there was an effective performance by the intelligence community in supplying support in the policy decision process with respect to the Cuba situation. The Secretary agreed stating the intelligence community performance from October 14 onward was superb. He stated that this performance enabled the panels of the NSC Executive Committee to recommend the establishment of positions on which the Government as a whole could and did act.

Secretary Rusk was next queried as to whether he agreed with the Board's present findings that, prior to October 14 the intelligence performance was clearly deficient and that perhaps this deficiency was not fully known to the Department of State at the time. The Secretary observed that this was a complex question and a difficult one to answer. He felt it was terribly important that,

NW0185 DocId:2501

NW 88192 C

DocId:34671886 Page 7