4-E

The above chart, showing numbers of double agents at the time of the last inspection and at present tells only part of the story. It does not show that there is a continual process of review and analysis of double agent matters and close attention to field activity in this regard. We are constantly striving to weed out any "deadwood" and to introduce fresh blood into our counterespionage efforts. Presentation of precise figures on the turnover among double agents during the period since the last inspection is not feasible, because various offices have different reporting dates on which they inform the Bureau of additions and deletions of double agents in the various nationality fields. However, the following available figures clearly indicate desirable turnover. In the Soviet field, from March 1, 1970, to December 1, 1970, we added 41 active and potential double agents; a net increase of 30. In the other countries currently supervised in the Espionage Section, we added 28 active and potential double agents and dropped 17, a net gain of 11. Several of those dropped were used up in counterintelligence actions which terminated their active usefulness, and some left the country.

3. Counterintelligence and Other Significant Operations

In our eyes, counterintelligence activity is activity designed to disrupt and hamper the operations of an opposition intelligence service. Although it may involve harassment at times, it is for the most part much more serious and worthy of our efforts only when it inflicts actual damage on the effectiveness of the enemy. To this end, we employ our own capabilities and, whenever indicated and possible, those of other U. S. and other Government agencies. Following are some examples of this activity since the last inspection.

Upon instruction from us, one of our double agents told his Soviet handler, Vladimir Azaryan, an Amtorg Trading Corporation employee, that the FBI interviewed him and he admitted he had been contacting Azaryan and also his predecessor, Yuri Kitaev, a United Nations Secretariat employee. The double agent blamed Azaryan's ineptness for FBI interest. Azaryan obviously reported the matter to his superiors. Shortly thereafter, both Soviets left the United States, thus disrupting the Soviet Committee for State Security (KGB).

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION

1/13/71 JPT:nld

NW 88608-DocID:32989638 Page 401