still remain subordinate to the Attorney General, who had been charged primarily with a prosecutorial function. Codification of duties to be performed by the Attorney General as head of the Department of Justice, and the Director as head of the FBI within that Department, plus recognition that both must attempt to perform their related duties within the criminal justice system to the optimum, has led to the necessity for a substantial degree of independence on the part of the Director, balanced with a responsiveness by him to reasoned counsel, guidance, supervision and control by the Attorney General.

The issues raised:

(a) During the "Princeton Conference" it was said that time and practice have made the FBI a totally separate power answerable to no one. More specifically, the Attorneys General, Presidents and Congress have granted power and responsibility to the FBI but have failed to direct, guide and control it.

(b) During the course of the FBI investigation of the "Watergate break-in," allegations were made that the FBI has been too responsive to demands made upon it, particularly those of a political nature.

4. Options for future policy: The Director of the FBI, as head of the principal investigative Bureau within the Department of Justice, must be permitted to discharge his responsibilities free from political or unethical pressure. This must be balanced with his responsibility to remain responsive to the Attorney General's leadership and direction of that Department having as one of its principal functions the enforcement of the Federal law through prosecution. A Congressional oversight committee, available to give the FBI counsel, guidance and direction, could greatly assist the FBI in achieving and maintaining this balance.

There must be an efficient working relationship, with free and open channels of communication between the Director and the Attorney General, due to their mutual and interlocking responsibilities in the criminal justice field, primarily investigative on the part of the FBI and prosecutorial on the part of the Department. This relationship should generate, at descending levels in the Department and the FBI, a commitment to accomplish an efficient work flow, in appreciation of the impact of this interaction on the