Bureau airtel to all offices 5/13/70 instructed the field to begin implementation of investigations of New Left terrorism promptly with available manpower and scale of implementation should be as rapid as possible. All adherents to Weatherman ideology of advocating a Marxist-Leninist revolution now and use terroristic tactics in furtherance of revolution are to be subjects of these investigations. All of these subjects are to be considered for Priority I of the Security Index, interviewed and the Bureau advised every 45 days by letter of those placed in Priority I of their current residence and any other pertinent information developed. To facilitate handling at the Bureau, all reports and other communications within defined categories are to include word (Weatherman) in character. This airtel also instructed each office to submit monthly airtel beginning 6/1/70 setting forth (1) identities and locations of communes or organizations under investigation; (2) number of cases opened during month on individuals in these categories; (3) total number of individual cases under investigation; (4) informant coverage used against communes or organizations; and, (5) brief summary of New Left-oriented violence in area during preceding month and action taken.

Bureau airtel to all offices dated 5/15/70 concerning the VB instructed all offices to immediately intensify investigations of all returnees from Cuba with this Brigade, ascertain their whereabouts, conduct prompt interviews and submit current reports with Security Index recommendation. In view of rebuttable presumption of at least sympathy to a violent Marxist-Leninist revolution and willingness to participate in that revolution by these VB members, the field was also instructed for one year to advise the Bureau every 90 days of whereabouts and activities of Priority II and III and non-Security Index returnees. In case of Priority I Security Index subjects, this information is to be furnished the Bureau every 45 days.

Bureau airtel to all offices dated 5/15/70 forwarded the field a copy of a Departmental letter concerning the specific areas of interest to the Department in campus disorders looking toward possible prosecuting action. The field was specifically instructed to develop information concerning New Left involvement in campus violence and all agitational activities prior to and during violent campus disorders by subversive groups and such information must be fully determined and reported.