regarding Cuba. He added that the Board's responsibilities go to the effectiveness of the institution and framework within which the U. S. intelligence community operates, the meeting of day-to- day concerns which arise, and a determination as to whether re- creation or reorganization is needed based on the "massive approach" represented by the draft report which the Board had before it.

Mr. Murphy expressed agreement with points made by Dr. Land. It was Mr. Murphy's view that the intelligence community apparently does not know enough about what is presently happening in Cuba. He thought that photographic coverage was not enough and what was needed was deep cover clandestine agent coverage of Cuba. Dr. Land added that it was not enough for the Board to make recommendations but there should also be a "violent surveillance" of their imple- mentation.

Noting the agenda for the day, Mr. Murphy wondered what the Chairman had in mind as to the nature and purpose of the Board's scheduled visit to the Secretary of State. Mr. Gray recalled that when Mr. Bundy had met with the Board previously he had suggested that in the course of the Board's Cuba review it might well be use- ful to discuss with the Secretary's of State and Defense, and the Chairman of the JCS, their views regarding the U. S. intelligence coverage given to the Soviet buildup in Cuba. Mr. Gray added that it was his impression that Mr. Bundy's suggestion had been based not only on the obtaining of facts pertinent to the Board's review for intelligence purposes, but also in anticipation of a Congressional investigation which might be made of the Cuba experience.

Mr. Murphy thought it important that the Board organize its interview to be had with the Secretary of State. Mr. Gray suggested that without going into a re-hash of the chronological summary of the intelligence aspects, the Board's questions to Secretary Rusk should include those which would determine the Secretary's views on what would have been done differently, from the vantage point of hindsight, with respect to intelligence handling of the Cuba devel- opment; whether there was a proper weighing of the risks and the intelligence advantages involved in overflights of Cuba; whether the intelligence analysis and reporting processes were hindered by pre- conceived views of U. S. "Sovietologists"; and whether raw intelli- gence reports were adequately communicated to the White House (Mr. Gray recalling that Mr. Bundy had expressed to him the belief that the President should have been informed of the contents of some of these reports regarding the sightings of offensive missiles in Cuba prior to the photography of October 14).

NW0185 DocId:2501 Page F NWI8192 DocId:34671886 Page 6