Castro and had two conferences with him. The Castro organization in Caracas is in direct contact with Castro agents in Miami, who consider Caracas their most important center in Latin America. The Miami group, which is made up of persons in the anti-Castro organization there who ostensibly escaped from Cuba, maintains contacts with all of the Latin American groups.

4. Plata said an important shipment for MOEC is due to arrive from Venezuela via Cucuta in February 1963. It is to be used in the MOEC plans to increase their activities in the Department of Santander. Plata mentioned Santander several times in the discussion as an area where the MOEC will play a more important role in violence in the future. He said there are several MOEC training areas in Colombia and Venezuela. Plata said he ostensibly is a salesman of refrigeration equipment for Comerciales Unidas Ltda., Carrera 5a No. 15-75, Cali.3 He said most of the MOEC representatives in Colombia pose as traveling salesmen. He asserted MOEC is looking for new people who are not known to the Colombian authorities to help them transport arms and equipment around the country.

5. Plata said he was born in the municipality of Malaga,4 in the Department of Santander; that he is married to Maruja de Plata, who has one arm missing; and that they have two daughters, one of whom is married to a Venezuelan doctor.

6. On 6 January 1963 Zapata and Plata went to "Los Panchos," a restaurant near the country club of Cali. The owner of the restaurant, a Gomez (fnu), is a member of the MOEC. They inspected a new tent that was acquired for a MOEC guerrilla leader known as "Mariposo,"5 who is active in the northern part of the Department of Tolima. Plata expressed a desire to obtain more of the tents for MOEC operations in other areas. He said he was expecting money from Venezuela by the first of February. Francisco Calero,6 formerly thought to be the MOEC leader in Cali, attended the meeting briefly and was ordered around as a subordinate of Plata.

7. During the conversation at the restaurant it was asserted that Fidel Castro had given US 50,000 dollars to Luis Emiro Valencia, one of the leaders of the United Front for Revolutionary Action (FUAR). The money had been given to Valencia to build up an organization to participate more actively in sabotage and guerrilla activities. It was said that Valencia used the money for his private use and as a result the FUAR has collapsed and might not be assisted any more by Castro. Since the failure of FUAR, there is increased importance on the MOEC organization.7

Source Comment. Plata, who appears to be approximately 60 years old, is well acquainted with the MOEC contacts in Ibagué. He also has a very close relationship with Zapata, who was in complete agreement with the criticism of the "soft line" of the PCC as represented by Vieira. It also appears there is a much closer understanding and co-operation between MOEC and PCC at this level than appears on lower levels.

Field Comments

1. Members of the Regional Committee of the Department of Valle have expressed differences in the recent past with the action of the Central Committee of the PCC over the lack of action during the Cuban blockade. They also have spoken of their plans to participate in sabotage in the Cali area. Apparently the aggressive faction, headed by Zapata, has been overruled by Jose Cardona Hoyos, secretary-general of the local regional committee.

2. Cucuta, capital of the Department of Norte de Santander, is on the Venezuelan border and is a traditional center of smuggling between the two countries.

3. There is no record of Comerciales Unidas in the Cali telephone directory. Plata did present his business card, which lists the address and name of the company as reported above.

4. Malaga is in the east central part of the Department of Santander, about 80 miles from the Venezuelan border.

5. "Mariposo" is the alias of a MOEC guerrilla leader who controls a band in the northern part of the Department of Tolima. Cf. CS-3/533, 975.