Honorable Frank Church

It is now almost one year since the inception of the moratorium on our regular records destruction program. For your information, our regular destruction program, as approved by the National Archives and Records Service, is designed to prevent retention of masses of records well beyond the period during which they may serve a useful purpose. Further, our records destruction program, as approved by the National Archivist, permits the destruction of those records which are deemed to no longer possess evidentiary, intelligence, or historical value. The moratorium, which was not expected to last as long as it has, has created substantial administrative burdens not only at FBI Headquarters but throughout our 59 field offices. The suspension of sound records management and file destruction practices in many areas is causing very substantial space and storage problems.

I, therefore, now propose, with your concurrence, to resume that portion of our records destruction program which, in reality, could not have been contemplated by the Senate leadership's request in the first instance. We would continue the destruction moratorium on all classifications of files which would fall within the general description of "security files." These would encompass all files on domestic intelligence matters, extremist matters, racial matters, as well as foreign counter-intelligence subject matters. We would, with regard to such "security matters," destroy duplicative material only.

The matters that we propose to resume routine destruction of, in accordance with our previously established Records Retention Plan, are the following: files relating to criminal investigations, suitability or applicant-type investigations, correspondence files, and files of an administrative nature generally. Should you or any members of your Committee express an interest for our continued retention of any record material other than as specified herein, you may be assured that such a request would receive every consideration.