We have learned through defector sources that in instances such as described above, the entire activity of the KGB officers involved as well as the Residency as a whole are subjected to most careful scrutiny to determine if there has been a penetration; if the operation was mishandled and what, if anything, can be salvaged from other operations which were being run by the officers involved. Such a review may take many months. No doubt Azaryan's contacts with Nelson have been the subject of such careful study. Inasmuch as we did not involve Nelson in our approach to Azaryan, there is no reason to believe that the KGB does not still consider Nelson as a potential agent.

It would be logical for the Soviets to have Nelson's development continued by Azaryan's replacement, who would by now have been in the U. S. for a relatively short period of time. Historically, a newly arrived KGB operative takes some months to get acclimated to the environment in which he will work and, therefore, does not jump right in to take over a net of agents.

The Nelson case has been maintained in a pending status as it was felt he still possesses potential as a source against the Soviets. At this point the only ones who know if this is true are the KGB. If we were to attempt to initiate contact between Nelson and the Soviets, they would be convinced he is a plant and lose all interest in him. The only course of action we can pursue at this time is to wait for the Soviets to make a move.

Newark's most recent communication in this matter advised that Nelson is alert to our interests and they are maintaining contact with him. This is essential to insure we have full knowledge and control of any future Soviet initiatives. Experience has shown the Soviets will allow situations such as this to remain dormant for as long as eight years. It is not suggested that this matter will be kept pending for this length of time; however, for reasons indicated it is incumbent upon us to continue to follow this matter for a reasonable period of time.

A review of the Azaryan file will show aggressive supervision by Seat of Government supervisors, including specific instructions to the field. As a prime defection

NW 88608 DocID:32989638 Page 621