1. Beginning in 1939, various Presidential directives requested all law enforcement officers to report information regarding espionage, sabotage, subversive activities and related matters to the FBI. These directives charge the FBI with the responsibility of correlating the material and referring matters under jurisdiction of other Federal agencies to the appropriate agencies.

2. The Delimitations Agreement between the FBI and the Armed Forces intelligence agencies provides that the responsibilities assumed by one organization in a given field carries with it the obligation to exchange freely and directly with other subscribing organizations all information of mutual interest. In addition, a supplemental agreement provides that certain information of general interest to the intelligence services of the Armed Forces be furnished them.

3. The National Security Act of 1947 provides that upon written request from the Director of Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) the Bureau shall make available information for correlation, evaluation and dissemination essential to national security.

4. Executive Order 10450 (Security of Government Employees) requires the FBI to check names of all civil applicants and civil incumbents of any department or agency of the Executive Branch against records of the FBI.

5. Supplement Number Four (Revised) of Departmental Order 3464, signed by the Attorney General in January, 1953, classified all official records and information of the FBI as "Confidential." However, in accordance with long-standing policy concurred in by the Attorney General, the practice of passing to other Government agencies information coming to the FBI's attention in connection with the conduct of investigations normally within the Bureau's jurisdiction was entirely appropriate and correct. The Attorney General advised the Bureau it would be remiss in its duty if it failed to pass along information which might prove of interest to the general welfare.

White House Requests

Pursuant to requests from the White House, the names of individuals who attend, serve or perform at White House functions, or who may be considered for Presidential appointments are checked against Bureau files including Identification Division records for any derogatory data which indicates the individual might pose a threat or embarrassment to the President or members of his family. Such requests are handled expeditiously and any derogatory information is reported directly to the White House staff security officer by appropriate communications depending upon the time factors involved. At the request of the White House, the FBI conducts background investigations on Presidential appointees, White House employees and persons having regular access to the White House.