EXCERPTS FROM MINUTES OF PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD MEETINGS WITH RESPECT TO COVERT ACTIONS MATTERS

Meeting of May 15, 1961:

The then DCI, Mr. Allen Dulles, joined in a discussion of the highlights of CIA's activities. In the covert actions field Mr. Dulles suggested that the Board look into the future relationship of CIA to paramilitary activities -- Mr. Dulles being of the opinion that paramilitary operations should not be conducted by the CIA. Mr. Dulles thought that the Board should look at such CIA activities as the use of proprietary organizations including Radio Free Europe, REA, the Afro-American Institute, and various labor and youth groups. Mr. Dulles was asked whether a removal of paramilitary activities from CIA responsibility would permit a significant cut in the CIA budget and personnel figures, and Mr. Dulles replied that such was not the case because of the extensive activities being carried on by the International Organizations Division of the DDP, and because of the many proprietary activities in which CIA is involved. (Dr. Land said that he was both shocked and indignant to learn that Radio Free Europe is a proprietary organization of the CIA. Mr. Clifford said that he had been on the Board of Directors of RFE for the past three years and this was the first time he had known it was connected with CIA. Mr. Dulles was asked what was the extent of the knowledge of American business men concerning the RFE-CIA connection and Mr. Dulles replied that certain American business men are aware of the connection, but not the man-in-the-street who makes dollar contributions to the tune of $3 million a year.)

Board Chairman Killian appointed himself and Messrs. Murphy, Langer and Taylor to serve on a Panel of the Board to study the extent to which the Government should be involved in political, psychological, propaganda, and paramilitary activities; and the policy which should be pursued by the U. S. Government in these matters.

President Kennedy joined the Board meeting, and when the discussion turned to a recommendation of the prior Board, the President referred to a recommendation that covert action programs of the CIA may not have been worth the risk nor worth the great expenditure of manpower and money; that CIA concentration on such activities had tended to detract substantially from the execution of its primary intelligence-gathering mission; and that there should be a total reassessment of U. S. covert action policies and programs. The President indicated that except for Laos and Cuba, he did not have extensive knowledge of other covert operations being conducted by the CIA; he said

NW 185 DocId:2507 NWP00126 Page6 DocId:34671892 Page7