4-E

CUBAN UNIT

Our sustained pressure on Cuban Intelligence Service (CuIS) operations in the U.S. resulted in the recall to Cuba of three very experienced CuIS officers in April, 1970. They had been serving as officials of the Cuban Mission to the United Nations (CMUN) and their withdrawal was in line with information provided by a CIA source to the effect that the Cuban Government planned to recall any personnel whom it believed were susceptible to persona non grata action by the U.S. State Department.

Based on FBI information, a leading Puerto Rican terrorist in New York City (Carlos Feliciano Vasquez), was apprehended by the New York City Police Department on May 16, 1970, while in the process of placing a bomb in an Armed Forces recruiting station.

After being confronted by us in early August, 1970, a very attractive and sexually permissive employee of the South African Embassy, Washington, D.C., admitted her deep involvement with the CuIS. She had furnished the Cubans data concerning American and foreign officials with whom she was in social contact. After becoming sexually involved with a State Department protocol officer in March, 1970, she was able to gain entree to diplomatic functions where she met ranking officials and employees of the U.S. and foreign governments. Our investigation indicated she was unable to establish contact with her principal to furnish information concerning the dignitaries she met following her involvement with the protocol officer and she voluntarily returned home to South Africa shortly after our interview of her. Her name is Jennifer Enid Miles.

A San Juan Office source was primarily responsible for developing information leading to the conviction on 8/26/70 of four Socialist Workers Party (PSO) leaders in Puerto Rico. The information developed by our source enabled the Police of Puerto Rico to arrest a total of nine PSO members. The PSO has been active in the wave of bombings taking place in Puerto Rico and the arrests were for violations of the Puerto Rican Explosives Law.

Domestic Intelligence Division Inspection 1/12/71

RAM: d1w

4-E