House Select Committee on Assassinations

Telephone Surveillances of SCLC

Dates of Surveillance Location

| October 23, 1963 - January 24, 1964 July 13-31, 1964 | SCLC Office, New York City Room 1202, 14 E. 40th Street, New York City |

November 8, 1963 - June 21, 1966 SCLC Office,

Atlanta, Georgia |

In an effort to respond to that portion of the NSA's request concerning existence or nonexistence of electronic surveillance of individuals directly or indirectly associated with the SCLC, personnel of the Congressional Inquiry Unit, FBI Headquarters, familiar with certain aspects of the King, SCLC and related files, compiled a list of individuals with the SCLC for the approximate period January, 1962, through 1968. Although this list is not all inclusive due to the large number of persons affiliated with the SCLC, an effort was made to include those individuals in key positions and who were most active in the organization. Most of the individuals listed were identified with the SCLC Headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. Based on review of appropriate records at FBI Headquarters, none of the below-listed individuals has been subject of electronic surveillance by the FBI:

Ralph Abernathy Jessie Jackson Bernard S. Lee Hosea Williams James Orange James Devel Andrew Young Walter Fauntroy Coretta Scott King John Rutherford William Rutherford Bernard Lafayette Dorothy Cotton J. T. Johnson Joseph E. Lowery Fred L. Shuttlesworth Cordy T. Vivian Adela Kanter Thomas C. Kilgore Dora McDonald James Harrison Wyatt Walker Logan Kearse Stoney Cooks Fred C. Bennett Booker T. Bonner Henry Brownlee Golden Frinks Joseph Lester Hankerson Samuel B. Wells Benjamin Johnson Herbert V. Coulton Thomas Offenburger New Soong-Li James Lawson Lillian Hunter Gloria Fraction David Wallace Jess Gill Carole Hoover Albert Turner Frank Ditto C. K. Steel Samuel Williams Curtis Harris Cirillo A. McSween Major Jones Lawrence D. Reddick I. M. Augustine Septima Clark T. Y. Rogers, Jr.

NW 88608 DocId:32989749 Page 60