These are just two of many contacts we have made during recent years in the Satellite field.

In the Soviet field we have been particularly anxious to develop Defectors-in-place and have made numerous contacts. During 1970 we had an Agent meet clandestinely on three occasions with Balentin P. Nizhelskiy, third Secretary at the Soviet Embassy, who is a known KGB officer and we had several brush meetings with him. He returned to the Soviet Union on normal home leave in late September, 1970, but prior to his departure arrangements were made for subsequent meetings with him when he returned. He has not returned and information recently received indicates this is due to serious illness of his wife in the USSR. While the reported illness of his wife may be only a cover by the KGB to keep us from knowing he reported his contacts, the illness of his wife may be very real and if so and he returns to this country subsequently we have excellent ground work already laid.

After a long period of working against Yuriy P. Lisnevskiy, a known GRU Agent and head of AEROFLOT Office in New York, we developed excellent information about him and established a close relationship with him. We secured very detailed personal information about Lisnevskiy and in October contacted him and while he was badly shaken because of the detailed operation we had run against him he did not commit himself to cooperate and after thinking about the matter for a period of time apparently decided to report to his superiors and was whisked back to the Soviet Union.

Lisnevskiy and Nizhelskiy are examples of efforts we have made and are continuing to make in this field. I am setting forth this very sensitive information so that the Inspector will be aware that we have been and most certainly will continue to do everything possible to accomplish our goals. I feel we have very dedicated and knowledgeable men working in this field and we are constantly analyzing the overall field in the light of changing world conditions to see that we take advantage of every opportunity. The Inspector may be assured we will continue to do so.