L. ALTERNATIVES

In addition to the recommended plan set forth in preceding sections, there are several alternative courses of action we might take:

1. We could take the position, and seek ways to implement it, that the entire field of foreign intelligence collection in the U. S., both overt and covert, should be handled by the FBI. Such an across-tho-board approach would exclude CIA and other U. S. agencies from foreign intelligence collection in this country and would place exclusive responsibility and jurisdiction in this field on the FBI. As indicated in Section I, this would require a revamping of existing legislation and directives and would necessitate drastic changes in the Bureau's operations, including major increases in personnel and costs and a substantial expansion in our recruitment and training programs, and other reorganization. We do not feel this approach is warranted nor do we believe it would be a practical and sound one.

2. We could recommend that CIA continue to be responsible for overt collection of foreign intelligence in this country but that the FBI exclusively handle covert foreign intelligence collection. This has several obvious drawbacks. First, we would be assuming a wide range of heavy and fixed responsibilities which in many cases would be completely divorced from the Bureau's internal security and counterintelligence interests. Second, we would become to a large extent a service group for other U. S. agencies and departments (including CIA, State, the military and others) in the handling of a host of foreign intelligence requirements levied by other agencies. This would involve a considerable commitment of manpower, communication costs, etc. on the part of the Bureau. In addition, such an approach would necessitate significant changes in our recruitment and training procedures and would also place on our shoulders a definite accountability in connection with any failures in U. S. intelligence foreign collection. It is not believed that this approach is as sound or desirable as our recommended plan of action: namely, that we expand our foreign intelligence collection efforts but on a selective basis, and without our assuming full responsibility.