Memorandum J. B. Hotis to Mr. Dalbey

RE: FBI AUTHORITY IN DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

Referring to our holding in Davis that the "source of the chill" is important in determining whether there is any inhibiting effect on the exercise of First Amendment rights, we think that there is a significant difference between investigative actions taken by a military agency in reference to civilians and similar investigative actions taken by a regular investigative agency of a civilian branch of the Government.

One of the functions of a civilian investigative agency, such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is to compile information on law violators, agitators of violence, and possible subversives. It has always been recognized that this is a delicate function, and it is exercised under the direction of the Attorney General. Investigation is performed by men a majority of whom are under the direction of lawyers in the Justice Department, and the information compiled is only usable and effective through court action. The FBI is powerless to imprisonment or to affect his liberty in any way except through the action of the courts.

As to the surveillance of public meetings through the use of informants, it has been held that such surveillance is not per se actionable. See Donahoe v. Duling, 330 F. Supp. 308 (E.D. Va. 1971) (police surveillance of street demonstrations held not to offend First Amendment rights).

The Supreme Court in Hoffa v. U.S., 385 U.S. 293 (1966), held that the use of secret informants is "not per se unconstitutional", and does not violate the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination, nor the Fourth Amendment prohibition against unreasonable searches and seizures. The Court upheld, as reasonable under the Fourth Amendment, admission at trial of evidence obtained by an undercover informant to whom a defendant spoke without knowledge that he was in the employ of the police. 385 U.S. at 300-303. See also Lewis v. U.S., 385 U.S. 206 (1966) and Lopez v. U.S., 373 U.S. 427 (1963).