THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

April 5, 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR FILE

SUBJECT: Board Meeting, October 1-2, 1964

October 1, 1964

The President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board convened at 9:00 AM on October 1, 1964 at the Board's offices in the Executive Office Building. Present were Chairman Clifford; Board members Langer, Pace, Gray, Land and Baker (Mr. Murphy was in Brazil); and Messrs. Coyne and Ash.

In opening the meeting the Chairman pointed out that ample time had been allotted during this two-day meeting for Board members to discuss agenda items of special interest. He then turned to some matters which he wished to bring to the Board's attention before proceeding with the regular agenda.

Chairman Clifford informed Board members that since the last Board meeting he had met with the President a number of times for discussions of various subjects, and on these occasions had taken the opportunity to progressively acquaint the President with the work of the Board. Mr. Clifford pointed out to the Board that, unlike President Kennedy who had reconstituted the Board in 1961 and was thoroughly familiar with its functioning, President Johnson has not been as intimately associated with the Board, primarily for the reason that no intelligence-related incidents have thus far arisen in President Johnson's term to evidence his special need for the Board's assistance. However, during the past few months the President is beginning to get a better idea of the Board's accomplishments as a result of Mr. Clifford's comments from time to time. Chairman Clifford observed that otherwise it was unlikely that the President would learn much about the work done by the Board, and certainly not from the intelligence community itself and probably not from Mr. McGeorge Bundy whose many duties of a non-intelligence nature are most demanding.

HANDLE VIA BYEMAN-COMINT

CONTROL SYSTEMS JOINTLY

NW 185 DocId:2490 Page 5

NW 88132 DocId:34671875 Page 6