This document contains 4 pages. No. of Copies, Series TOP SECRET December 1, 1963

THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON

PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ADVISORY BOARD

Origin of the Board: From 1946 to 1954 a variety of ad hoc groups were constituted at the Presidential level to review selected aspects of the total U.S. foreign intelligence effort.

In 1955 the Hoover Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government recommended a permanent bi-partisan "Watch Dog Committee" (to be composed of members of both Houses of Congress and of public-spirited citizens) to make periodic surveys of the organization, functions, policies and effectiveness of the foreign intelligence activities of the several Government agencies concerned, reporting thereon both to the Congress and the President. President Eisenhower rejected this proposal.

In February 1956, as a tactic to forestall creation of a Watch Dog Committee, President Eisenhower issued an Executive Order (Tab. A) establishing his own Board of Consultants on Foreign Intelligence Activities, to maintain a continuing, independent review of all U.S. foreign intelligence activities. President Eisenhower's Board functioned continuously from February 1956 to January 1961. (The membership of the Eisenhower Board is listed under Tab B.)

In January 1961, President Kennedy decided that there was a continuing need for a Presidential advisory board on foreign intelligence, but deferred temporarily the appointment of new members. In the interim he requested that the Executive Secretary of the prior Board remain in office and that he continue to review and report to the President on the conduct of our foreign intelligence effort.

Mission of the Board: On May 4, 1961 following the disaster suffered by the U.S. at Cuba's Bay of Pigs, the President, by Executive Order No. 10938 (Tab. C), established the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. This Order directs the Board (a) to conduct a continuing, independent review and assessment of all functions of the departments and agencies having responsibilities in "the foreign intelligence and related fields" and (b) to advise the President with respect to the objectives and conduct of these activities, which are required in the interest of foreign policy, national defense and security. The phrase "related fields" pertains to highly sensitive covert operations relating to political action, propaganda, economic warfare, sabotage, escape and evasion, subversion against hostile states or groups and support of indigenous and anti-communist elements in threatened countries of the free world. These covert operations are to be conducted in such manner that, if uncovered, the U. S. Government can plausibly disclaim responsibility for them.

Membership of the Board: President Kennedy's Executive Order provides that "members of the Board shall be appointed from among qualified persons outside the Government..." All appointments to

HANDLE VIA COMINT CHANNELS ONLY

Handle via DYEMAN Control System

NW 185 Docld-2492 Page F NW 88192 DocId:34671877 Page 6