UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. J. B. Adams

DATE: 6-2-75

FROM : Legal Counsel

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

The purpose of this memorandum is to advise that Lester B. Seidell, staff member of the Senate Select Committee, has informed us that the Committee intends to interview former SA David E. Todd, SAC Charles W. Bates, and Assistant Director Robert E. Gebhardt and to request that the aforementioned employees be released from existing employment and/or secrecy agreement for purposes of a staff interview.

On the evening of 5-29-75, Lester B. Seidell telephonically advised SA Paul V. Daly of this Division that in accordance with the "guidelines" existing between the Committee and the various intelligence agencies under review, he was giving notice that he as a representative of the Committee was going to San Francisco in approximately two to three weeks, and it was his intention to interview SAC Charles W. Bates, former SA David E. Todd, and former Assistant to the Director Alan H. Belmont. He also requested Assistant Director Gebhardt be made available for staff interview in Washington, D. C. He asked that the Bureau take the necessary steps to release the Agents from any existing employment or secrecy agreements. For the purposes of this interview, he stated he would inquire of each of the interviewees as to their knowledge and participation in counter-intelligence activities directed against the Black Panther Party. With regards to this discussion, he specifically mentioned a Bureau airtel to San Francisco dated 5-11-70, titled "Counterintelligence and Special Operations (Research Section)." He stated this document was one of the documents released by the court in the suit by newscaster Carl Stern. He was asked as to whether he could define more precisely the areas to be covered in the interviews and stated he could not inasmuch as he did not know the various aspects of the counterintelligence program against the Black Panther Party in the San Francisco area. Additionally, he advised he was making a request for documents,

3 JUL 1 1975

1 - Mr. Wannall 1 - Mr. Gebhardt 1 - Mr. Cleveland 1 - Mr. Mintz 1 - Personnel File, SAC Charles W. Bates 1 - Personnel File, Assistant Director Robert E. Gebhardt 1 - Personnel File, former SA David E. Todd

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan