March 2, 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. TOLSON

ALL INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

MR. BELMONT MR. GALE MR. ROSEN MR. SULLIVAN MR. DE LOACH

The Attorney General called and advised that he had talked to Senator Long last night. Senator Long's committee in looking into mail covers at cetera. The Attorney General stated he thought somebody, naa already spoken to Senator Long as so said he did not want to get into any national security area and was willing to take steps not to do this. The Attorney General stated that Mr. Fensterwald was present for part of the investing and Fensterwald had said that he had some possible witnesses who are former Bureau Agents and if they were asked in mail was opened, they would take the Fifth Amendment. The Attorney General stated that before they are called, he would like to know who they are and whether they were ever involved in any program touching on national security and if not, it is their own business, out of which we would want to know. The Attorney General stated the Senator promised that he would have a chance to look at the names if he wanted to, personally and confidentially, and the list would have any names involving national security deleted and he would tell the Senator how many but no more.

The Attorney General stated that the Postmaster General is going down there this morning almosch watch he, the Attorney General, thought would be helpful to Chief Inspector Montague of the Post Office Department.

The Attorney General stated that Senator Long also said he is not going to propose legislation to abandon mall covers as he thought they served a useful purpose but he also thinks that control should be tightened. I stated I thought there was great laxity in the matter of mall covers and the matter of tapping telephones.

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

DeLooch

Cospet

Collohan

Contrad

Felt

Gale

Rose

Sullivan

Tovel

Trotter

Tele. phone

Holmes

Gondy

I stated I have always been of the view and recommended back when Tom Clark was Attorney General that no agency of the Government should tap a telephone except with the written approval of the Attorney General. I stated

MAR 3-1065

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

9 MAR 3 1965

NW-88614-DocId:32989673 Page 45