Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

RE: SENSTUDY 75 62-116395

Elliff was questioned about the reason for the third priority. He responded by noting that one President (Nixon) had stated that in 1970 there was a breakdown in the relations between the FBI and the rest of the intelligence community. Elliff was informed that this was not so, that the discontinuance of a formal liaison relationship with Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and subsequently the rest of the intelligence community in 1970 did not mean that there was a breakdown in coordination. Elliff asked why the Bureau discontinued a formal liaison relationship with CIA in early 1970. We briefly reviewed for Elliff the Thomas Riha case pointing out that Mr. Kelley had personally caused a review of that case in an effort to determine whether it, in fact, was the reason for the discontinuance of our liaison relationship with the CIA. Elliff was informed that this was the case. In addition, we discussed with Elliff the 1966 understanding between CIA and the FBI and made it quite clear to him that we felt the relationship with not only CIA but the entire intelligence community was excellent.

Other Matters of Interest

During the course of the briefing, Elliff was shown charts depicting the inordinate increase of Sino-Soviet bloc official presence in the U. S. from 1959 through January, 1975, the growth of the presence of foreign hostile intelligence officials in the U. S. during this same period compared with the static number of SAs we had working against this threat during this same period. Elliff was concerned over the fact that the presence of Sino-Soviet bloc officials as well as the intelligence officers increased substantially while the number of SAs dedicated to counterintelligence investigations remained static. He wondered why this was so. Elliff was advised that it was a question of manpower and priorities. He was told that during the 1959-1975 period there was a considerable demand for the use of SA personnel in the fields of organized crime, civil rights, & ghetto riots. In addition, during that period of time additional investigative responsibilities were placed upon the FBI by virtue of new legislation.