Shortly after his return to the United States in August, 1967, he advised reliable sources that he had returned 'to do a job" for the Chinese communists. He outlined a three-fold mission: (1) to form a national coalition of domestic Marxist-Leninists sympathetic to Mao Tse-tung thought and the Communist Party of China; (2) to develop and forward information of interest to the Chinese communists; and (3) to recruit politically trusted youth who would travel to Communist China for an indeterminable period of cadre training after which they would return to this country and operate in behalf of Communist China in a nonpublic or submerged fashion. There is a strong presumption these latter individuals would be utilized as recruited intelligence agents operating clandestinely in behalf of China.

In late 1967, Bergman indicated a desire to obtain intelligence relating to the Soviet Union which he would forward to China. He provided funds for this intelligence-gathering effort and also to support the operations of a domestic ;ro-Communist China organization. He claimed to have a secret line of communication with Communist China. After connecting diversionary travel to Los Angeles, Bergman flew to London in early 1969 and while there contacted the Communist Chinese diplomatic establishment on two occasions: Thereafter, he flew to Paris and contacted the Chinese Embassy in Paris on two occasions. While in Paris, he dispatched a letter to an address in China. Significantly, the letter was directed to the name he used as a pseudonym while res'iding in China. He has stated he is able to communicate with them, but he is unable to receive adequate responses. Monitoring of his activities also indicates he is suffering from a lack of funds.

Miscellaneous Pro-Chinese Groups

Since the development of the Sino-Soviet ideological split, many factions have evolved from the American communist movement which to various degrees have lent allegiance to the Communist Party of China. Two are worthy of mention.

Communist Party, USA (Marxist-Leninist)** The Communist Party, USA (Marxist-Leninist) (CPUSA-ML) was created in late 1965 primarily as a vehicle for anti-United States propaganda and activity of its leader

-- 6 --