arrested were Bureau fugitives. We had previously identified the two Bureau fugitives from fingerprints from material submitted by them to news media in May claiming credit for the murders. The two Bureau fugitives, Richard Moore and Edward Joseph, were BPP members who were reportedly in Algeria. A machine gun utilized in armed robbery and in possession of Moore was determined to be same weapon used in machine gunning of two NYC police officers on 5/19/71. Moore has been indicted by Queens County, New York, Grand Jury for attempted murder of the two officers. He and Joseph remain in custody of local officials.

Our intense investigation has in some respects decimated the BPP in NYC. We have kept them on the defensive and in hiding. Our investigation and interview program has resulted in developing a witness who is an associate of the prime suspects in this case.

Based upon her testimony of acts of violence, she identified seven Panthers who participated in killing a Negro BPP leader in NYC. Of the seven, three had previously been arrested in the above-mentioned armed robbery 6/5/71. The remaining four became Bureau fugitives for Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution for murder.

On 8/7/71 a Panther informant of our Detroit Office under instructions to locate the four fugitives located Michael Dennis Hill; one of the four, who was accompanied by an associate. Based upon informant's report, Hill and Anthony Nicholas La Borde were arrested, both armed with firearms, and La Borde also had a live hand grenade in his possession. A Federal Grand Jury has indicted Hill and La Borde with possession of destructive device and La Borde also charged with harboring Hill.

Hill is reportedly the "trigger man" in shooting of two officers on 5/19/71 and our witness has stated Hill was extremely upset for his failure to actually kill the officers and is a likely suspect in killing the two officers two nights later on 5/21/71. Hill is described as the "hit man" of BPP

NW 88608 DocID:32989638 Page 79