Nandor via BZMAM Control System

improved or instituted for the purpose of restricting the travel of Castro's representatives in Latin American countries. In further describing the U. S. policy, Mr. Cottrell said that, in his own view our government does not intend to invade Cuba except as a last resort, and our policy holds that the liberation of Cuba is the responsibility of the Cuban people themselves. However, Mr. Cottrell added, it is felt by a number of people that the time has long past when we might expect a successful popular uprising in Cuba against the Castro regime.

Mr. Gray asked whether the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Cuba would alter the point of view just mentioned by Mr. Cottrell to the effect that we cannot hope for a successful popular uprising in Cuba. Mr. Cottrell preferred that this question be answered by Mr. Fitzgerald who expressed the opinion that withdrawal of Soviet forces would not significantly affect the situation because of the strong internal security measures which are maintained by the Castro regime in Cuba.

Referring again to Mr. Fitzgerald's earlier statement that CIA is lacking in policy guidance on covert actions, Mr. Coyne inquired as to whether requests for such guidance had been made. Mr. Fitzgerald replied that a decision in this area is being sought this week. Mr. Cottrell observed that previously the government's prime objective had been to obtain the release of the 22 Americans imprisoned in Cuba, and now that this has been accomplished, Mr. Cottrell predicted that future operations would include low-level reconnaissance missions, increased sabotage operations, and intensified efforts to obtain OAS action. He added that inasmuch as the "noise level" is down it is hoped that aggressive programs may now be pursued.

Mr. Cottrell also said that he believes the time has come to begin creating tensions in the Cuban area, and he noted that critics of the Administration have been charging that our government has fallen into a co-existence policy with respect to Cuba.

In Mr. Cottrell's opinion Castro must feel that his recent release of the American prisoners will aid rapprochment efforts with respect to the U. S., and Castro probably hopes that he may now quietly go on building up his communist

OXECART-CORONA- IDEALIST

Handle via COMMITTEE - KEYSOLE

Channels Only

NW185 Doctd: 2495 Page 33 NW88192 Doctd:34671880 Page 14