relating to 32 countries. There are five Legal Attache (Legat) Offices located in countries handled by the Unit and each of these offices, except Mexico, covers more than one country. The Nationality Unit is responsible for matters relating to 101 countries. Eleven Legat Offices are located in the area of responsibility of this Unit and most of these Legat Offices cover more than one country.

There is a high volume of material which is received daily in these Units consisting of intelligence information from other agencies and news media material. All of this material must be reviewed in order that the supervisors will be in position not only to handle inquiries from any source relating to matters of Bureau responsibility in the nationalities intelligence field but also to process the high level intelligence (HILEV) items which are received from Legats. The latter is a very heavy responsibility since we recognize that if one high-level item goes to the President and he acts on it, and it proves to be incorrect, not only the Bureau but the White House itself might encounter serious problems. During month of August, of 106 HILEV items received from Legats, 51 were processed by the Nationality Unit and 34 by the Middle and South American Unit. Each of the two units disseminated 30 HILEV items. Dissemination of each HILEV item consumes approximately one hour of a supervisor's time.

With regard to the Nationality Unit, which has the lowest average case load per supervisor, other matters handled in the Unit not reflected by caseload are: providing for installation and maintenance of continued coverage in sensitive areas essential to the fulfillment of requests of the National Security Agency (Telex Coverage, 64 at present); establishing and maintaining highly sensitive coverage also for National Security Agency relating to electronic penetration of communications equipment; supervising and coordinating on a recurring basis coverage relating to the various United Nations General Assembly sessions (which includes close working relationship with Secret Service); maintenance of all Bureau liaison with National Security Agency.

It must be borne in mind the reduction of four case supervisors from the Espionage and Extremist Intelligence Branch and seven case supervisors from the Internal Security and

308 NW 88608 DocId:32989638 Page 322