THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON

June 1, 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE BOARD

SUBJECT: Audio Penetrations of the U. S. Embassy, Moscow

REFERENCE: Board Agenda Items 3, 5, 6, 12

Since the last meeting of the Board there have been discovered 41 microphones concealed in the walls of our Embassy in Moscow. These have been located at strategic points covering virtually all of our key offices including those of the Ambassador, Deputy Chief of Mission, the Army Communications and Code Center, State Department Code Room, Embassy conference and typing rooms, the office of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Political, Economic, Agricultural Attaches, etc. In addition to conventional bugs deeply imbedded in the walls of the Embassy, there also have been discovered three coaxial cables and a large (3' x 9') antenna which may be associated in some manner with the unusual signal which is known to have been targeted against key offices in the Embassy for at least seven years.

Immediately following the discovery of the first of the 41 microphones, the Chairman directed that appropriate inquiry be initiated. In line therewith the Baker Panel was convened, and discussions were held with appropriate personnel of the White House, the State and Defense Departments, the NSA, CIA, etc. In addition at the request of Mr. Bundy, Dr. Jerome Wiesner, former Science Advisor to the President, was briefed on the subject preparatory to his making an on-the-scene review in Moscow of the steps being taken by the State Department with respect to this development. Further, special studies were requested on behalf of the Board relative to the degree of jeopardy which may have resulted to our encryption systems as a consequence of these penetrations. (A couple of weeks after the Chairman initiated Board inquiries concerning this matter, the USIB began a review of the subject and at that time the USIB was requested by Mr. Bundy to report the results of its findings and recommendations to the Board in time for consideration at this meeting.)

In keeping with the foregoing, the Board will be briefed on the following significant aspects of the subject (as reflected in the agenda):

NW 185 Docld 2503 Page 21 NW 68132 DocId:34671888 Page 22