Memorandum to Mr. E. S. Miller

Re: U.S. vs. Can William Butenko and Igor A. Ivanov, Igor A. Ivanov, Appellant

He argues that Section 605 itself, its legislative history, and subsequent case law do not indicate that Section 605 intended to prohibit the President from utilizing electronic surveillance to gather foreign intelligence or to use the information gathered in cases involving a defendant's foreign intelligence gathering. He traces the legislative history of the Communications Act and finds its main purpose was to establish a Communications Commission and that it extended to wire communications almost the identical provisions of Section 27 of the Radio Act of 1927, which was thought neither to apply to federal officers nor to bar testimony relating to the contents of radio messages intercepted by them. Judge Adams notes there was no Congressional debate over the meaning of the provisions of Section 605, implying that if it had been intended to limit the President's foreign intelligence powers, there probably would have been debate.

Similarly, Judge Adams finds that in response to the Government's argument in Nardone that "a construction be given Section 605 which would exclude Federal agents since it is improbable Congress intended to ... impede ... the detection and punishment of crime.", the Supreme Court concluded "that the question is one of policy." Judge Adams argues that where the Supreme Court might, as a matter of policy, find that Congress intended to exclude electronic surveillance evidence in run-of-the-mill domestic criminal cases, there is no evidence it would extend the exclusion to cases involving the gathering of foreign intelligence. Additionally, this surveillance was not aimed solely at securing evidence to convict a person of crime, but at gathering foreign intelligence deemed essential to the security of the U. S. He thus concludes that the Nardone interpretation of Section 605 is not applicable to this kind of case, and argues that in view of the breadth of the President's authority in foreign affairs, Section 605 should be interpreted to limit that power only if Congress' intent to do so is clearly manifest, which he argues it is not.

Judge Adams then addresses the constitutional question avoided by the majority, viz., does the 4th Amendment allow the President to authorize warrantless electronic surveil-lances in foreign intelligence cases. He concludes that it does. He argues that constitutional rights are not absolute; they must be weighed against competing rights; and the 4th Amendment prohibits only unreasonable searches and seizures.

NW#:88608 DocId:32989541