The President then referred to the fact that Dr. Killian was retiring as Chairman of the Board in May. The President expressed deep appreciation for the work which Dr. Killian has done and the valuable contribution which Dr. Killian has made to the country. The President recalled that the Board has conducted three post-mortems on intelligence situations, and that these efforts of the Board have been most useful, particularly in the case of Cuba. The President added that he wished to express his appreciation for the effective manner in which the Board has carried out its duties in the past. He stated that the Board's contribution has been most valuable. In addition to its being valuable to the President, the Board has also contributed in an important way through the awareness which it has created in the intelligence community of its continuing operations and continuing review of intelligence activities. The President said that he was very much indebted to all of the Board members and is hopeful that the Board will continue its present operations for he considered them to be invaluable.

Dr. Killian expressed his gratitude for the President's comments, and then said that, as a footnote to the Board's present report, the members wished to say to the President that he has a right to expect high quality performance on the part of the intelligence community, and the Board suggests that the President see fit to emphasize to the intelligence community the necessity for producing adequate information.

The President then referred to current criticisms and inquiries which have been received from various quarters concerning the role of the Government in the Bay of Pigs invasion, and the President wondered whether the Board felt that the Administration should be more responsive to such criticisms and inquiries. Mr. Murphy commented that we would be well advised to follow the practice of Prime Minister Macmillan who responds to such criticism and inquiries with a statement to the effect that we do not discuss our intelligence activities in public.

Dr. Killian assured the President that members of the Board feel that to the greatest extent possible the Administration should refrain from making intelligence disclosures with respect to the Bay of Pigs incident. Mr. Clifford thought that the situation had been summed up humorously and accurately in a recent statement by Congressman Mahon who questioned whether the real problem was a lack of intelligence information or, on the other hand, a lack of intelligence on the part of self-appointed critics. The President stated that he too was impressed with Congressman Mahon's statement and, in fact, after the statement appeared in the press, he called Congressman Mahon and commended him on its content.

NW88132

Doctd:34671887 Page 12