We are, however, vigorously pursuing all leads relating to the possession by "The New York Times" and other newspapers of the "McNamara Study" and have proposed that the field be authorized to immediately initiate interviews with friendly newsmen concerning this matter. We believe this area of investigation offers excellent possibilities of effecting a major breakthrough in this case.

There remains the suggestion Ellsberg may have received the cooperation of or conspired with various New Left, anti-draft, anti-Vietnam war elements, and this possibility has received the most penetrating examination. We know Ellsberg to have been friendly with a number of individuals connected with the Institute for Policy Studies (IPS) in Washington, D. C., and evidence exists that the IPS has been in possession for some time of documents which may be identical with the "McNamara Study." We have also learned, in tracing the development of Ellsberg's thinking from "hawk" to "dove," that from August, 1969, he became increasingly associated with a number of the more prominent anti-war exponents in this country, many of whom occupy important posts at Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. We are in the process of tying together all of this data, in an effort to surface, if possible, any possible connection between these elements and Ellsberg in the disclosure of the highly classified "McNamara Study," but information available to date does not, as yet, substantiate or corroborate existence of a conspiracy in this regard.

4. With particular regard to the President's concern expressed by Mr. Haldeman to the Director, mentioned hereinbefore, with respect to the complicity of individuals, and the instructions of the Attorney General that the Bureau in each leak case identify the individuals responsible, it is quite clear that we must resolve all allegations, especially those pertaining to possible conspiracies, during the course of our inquiries. As noted in Item 1, our inquiries have expanded to include not only the leak to "The New York Times" but to encompass the eight other newspapers which carried portions of the "McNamara Study." Since its inception, the Ellsberg case has required expanding supervisory attention here at the SOG. Nine men are currently committed to the case. There are no indications at this time that less supervisory attention will be needed in the near future. In fact, all indications are that there may have to be more commitments in this regard, particularly if the Department refers additional leak matters to us for the intensive investigative attention which has been requested in the past.

A successful investigation followed by a successful prosecution would certainly have a very important impact on Governmental processes, particularly

NW 88608 DocId:32989638 Page 20 8