Memorandum to Mr. E. S. Miller Re: U.S. vs. John William Butenko and Igor A. Ivanov, vs. A. Ivanov, Appellant

ANALYSIS

As previously noted Alderman dealt exclusively with illegal electronic surveillances, i.e., surveillances in violation of a defendant's 4th Amendment rights. It did not distinguish between "routine" criminal cases and foreign intelligence-espionage cases when it required that full disclosure of all intercepts of the defendant be made to him so that he, in an adversary proceeding, might determine if the Government's case against him was "tainted." Justice Harlan, objecting to full disclosure in foreign intelligence-espionage cases, and on behalf of disclosure only of portions deemed "arguably relevant" to the Government's case by the trial court after an in camera review, did not raise the issue of "legal" vs. "illegal" electronic surveillance, so presumably he was also talking about, and intending to limit disclosure even on surveillances which violated the 4th Amendment.

The Third Circuit Court of Appeals assumes the Ivanov surveillances in issue were legal, but still cites Alderman as requiring an evidentiary hearing, and without that hearing feels it must conclude that Ivanov's conviction was based on electronic surveillance evidence, introduction of which must be excluded under Section 605.

At the conclusion of Alderman, when remanding Ivanov, the Supreme Court instructed the District Court that if it found the surveillance in question did not violate the defendant's 4th Amendment rights it should reimpose judgments of conviction. The Supreme Court did not consider the effect of Section 605 on the cases before it in Alderman.

The case has been remanded for further proceedings, apparently an evidentiary hearing on the second set of surveillances. The Government can opt to save Ivanov's conviction by participating in such a hearing, since none of his case was actually built on surveillance information; however this would require disclosure to Ivanov of his intercepted conversation at the Mission and Amtorg, a disclosure concession we don't want to have to make because of the impact it would have on diplomatic relations, ongoing counterintelligence operations, and possibly on future prosecutions. Additionally, the salvaging of Ivanov's conviction falls far short of the original purpose of continuing the appeals in this case, viz., to obtain

NW#: 88608 DocId:32989541