Oswald Calls to Embassies Reported Taped by C.I.A.

By NICHOLAS M. HORROCK

Special to The New York Times

WASHINGTON, Sept. 20—The Central Intelligence Agency secretly tape-recorded two telephone conversations between Lee Harvey Oswald and the Cuban and Soviet Ambassadors in Mexico City some eight weeks before President Kennedy was shot to death on Nov. 22, 1963, in Dallas, Government sources familiar with the events said today.

The call to the Soviet Embassy, according to the sources, alerted the C.I.A. to the presence of Oswald in Mexico City, and on Oct. 10 the agency warned the Federal Bureau of Investigation. There is no indication that the F.B.I., which was investigating Oswald for

Today's Sections

*Included in all copies distributed in New York City and the suburban area.

Index to Subjects

Page

Amusement News 52-53

Art 31-32

Bridge 2

Chess 2

Dance 2

Editorial/Op-Ed 4

Fashions/Home Fashions 6

Film 2

Food 6

Gardens/Home Repairs 2

Letters to the Editors 4

Music/Recordings 2

News Summary & Index 1

Obituaries 1

Photography 2

Puzzles 6

Ship Movements 1

Society 1

Stamps/Coins 2

Theater 2

TV/Radio 2

TV (Late Listings) 1

Oswald's pro-Castro activities, ever followed up on the information.

The call to the Cuban Embassy, the sources said, was not associated with Oswald until after the death of Mr. Kennedy. A Federal commission headed by Chief Justice Earl Warren found that Oswald, acting alone, had slain the President.

To Avoid Publicity

The calls were reportedly placed by Oswald on a trip to Mexico City in late September and early October, 1963. The events of this trip have never been fully made public and have been the subject of speculation for more than a decade.

The reports of the calls are the latest developments in the increasing speculation about the Warren Commission's conclusions. Evidence that the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. may have been less than candid with the commission has added to the questions surrounding the as-

Continued on Page 49, Column 1

Associated Press

Secretary of State Kissinger with Shimon Peres, Israeli Defense Minister, after their meeting in Washington.

Chilean Junta Resisting

By JONATHAN KANDELL

Special to the New York Times

SANTIAGO, Chile, Sept. 16—Two years after the bloody coup that toppled the Marxist coalition government of President Salvador Allende Gossens, the military junta that governs Chile has developed a siege mentality against critics of its harsh economic recovery program and of its continuing vio-

lations of human rights.

Unemployment is at its highest in at least four decades and industrial production has dropped sharply this year.

But the junta has vowed to continue an austerity program aimed almost exclusively at