difficult to draft a letter to all SAC's pointing up the problem to them and expecting them to adhere to any policy which will eliminate the difficulty which we have encountered heretofore.

I have discussed this matter with Mr. Carlson in some detail and he feels that we may be able to control to some extent the interviewing of persons hostile to the Bureau at the Seat of Government without furnishing a "black list" or statement of policy to the field. Mr. Carlson feels, and I agree with him, that the major portion of our difficulty stems from the Loyalty investigations and applicant investigations. Mr. Carlson and I therefore propose that the following procedure be instituted immediately at the Seat of Government in order to meet the objectives desired by the Director in connection with this matter:

1. The Crime Records Section shall be responsible for preparing and maintaining in a current status a list of those individuals known to be hostile to the Bureau. It is felt that it is imperative that a list be prepared, because the judgment of individual Supervisors referring cases to the field will differ depending upon the extent of their day to day newspaper reading, radio listening and perusal of various and sundry periodicals. It would also mean that each Supervisor would have to either prepare his own list or endeavor to depend on a faulty memory. Furthermore, an individual may at one time appear to be hostile to the Bureau and subsequently his attitude may change and it may be very desirable to interview him.

2. This list shall be furnished to only those Supervisors at the Seat of Government who have the responsibility for assigning Loyalty or applicant cases to the field. This will include Supervisors in the Loyalty Section of the Security Division, the Applicant Section of the Investigative Division and those Supervisors in the Administrative Division handling Bureau applicant cases. This will mean that not more than 25 Supervisors at most at the Seat of Government will have possession of such a list. These Supervisors shall check all references and present and former employers against this list before referring the case to the field for investigation.

It should be realized that the procedure recommended will not provide against interviews with neighbors of the applicants or associates whose names are brought up during the course of the investigation. It is felt, however, that the bulk of the people who are interviewed in these cases are set out as references by the applicant and it would only be on a rare occasion that a person hostile to the Bureau will be interviewed on a neighborhood investigation or as an associate of the applicant.