ELLSBERG CASE

4-A-3

SECTION CHIEF W. R. WANNALL NATIONALITIES INTELLIGENCE SECTION

1. Initial investigation by Bureau opened 1/20/70 based on information from step-mother of subject's former wife to the effect that subject, with his children, took papers from his office at Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, California, and copied them with intent that they be made available for Senators Fulbright and Goodell. This information had come to knowledge of Carol Ellsberg through the Ellsberg children. Initial investigation continued through 9/25/70 when basic facts were presented to Department of Justice with note that no further action would be taken in the absence of a specific request from the Department. No such request was received.

On 6/13/71 "The New York Times" commenced publishing a series of articles purporting to report on the history of the U. S. decision-making process concerning Vietnam policies for the period 1945-1967. "The New York Times" claimed the articles were based on a study later identified as a 47-volume history entitled "United States - Vietnam Relations During the Period 1945-1967," commonly known as the "McNamara Study." The "McNamara Study" was prepared beginning in 1967 and was classified "Top Secret."

On 6/15/71 the Attorney General requested FBI to conduct all necessary investigation into the matter relating to the publication of classified information by "The New York Times." Our 1970 investigation and initial reports from sources obtained in instant matter pinpointed Ellsberg as the prime suspect responsible for the leak of classified data to news media. Extensive investigation at Los Angeles pinned down the identities of individuals present in October, 1969, when Ellsberg duplicated classified documents available to him through his employment at Rand Corporation in Santa Monica. Also revealed were his own statements to his former wife that he, in fact, was converting the classified documents to his own use to furnish them to various Congressional figures. The Los Angeles investigation has resulted in Ellsberg's current indictment alleging violation of Section 793(e), Title 18, U. S. Code (unauthorized possession of documents involved and unlawful retention of same) and Section 641, Title 18 (conversion of the documents to his own use). The Los Angeles investigation was the sole basis for this indictment and served as the basis for current imprisonment on charge of contempt of court of Anthony J. Russo who was present on one occasion when Ellsberg allegedly duplicated material in his possession.

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION

8/23/71

4-A-3

NW 88608 DocId:32989638 Page 14

2