FBI: Missing the Point

Many disclosures have surfaced so rapidly that the public may have become snared to still more revelations about improper activities of government intelligence agencies. Yet the admissions and comments Monday by FBI Director Clarence M. Kelley should not be permitted to pass unnoticed:

—The FBI for many years engaged in "national security" investigations, and, presumably, foreign enemies in Washington were among the targets.

—The FBI still主编 “personal behavior” information on government officials, including members of Congress and prominent private citizens.

In defending the调查者, Kelley said: "I am convinced that in these matters where there might be some criticism there is an underlying intent to do that which is good for the nation. I have not come across any activities which I would construe as being illegal or being directed toward personal gain or to enhance the personal reputation of anyone."

This analysis, even if accurate—which is doubtful—betray a misunderstanding of the responsibility of an agency like the FBI in a democratic society.

A warning some 20 years ago by Supreme Court Justice Richard Frankfurter goes to the heart of the problem. Frankfurter said, "The accretion of dangerous power does not come in a day. It does come over time, from the cumulative force of unchecked discharge of the restrictions that fene in even the most disinterested assertion of authority."

Of special significance was Kelley's revelation that the FBI continues to collect personal information on congressmen and others who are not under

criminal investigation. His explanation was nothing less than astonishing. He said such information, which includes sex and drinking habits, "might very well be helpful to us in later investigations." Of course it might, but that task is the very essence of a police state.

The burkou, Kelley said, is drawing guidelines in cooperation with the Justice Department, to control the circulation of "personal behavior" information related to criminal investigations. No guidelines are necessary, because no American citizen should be the target of such an investigation.

I have not reviewed files to find out about persons, companies or other public figures," Kelley said, but here again he was wide of the mark. The classification or lack of it, or the good intention of an FBI director or lack of it, does not meet the issue. Such files should not exist.

After the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Agencies completes its investigation, Congress must reclassify the rules of the FBI, the CIA and other elements of the intelligence community, which involves thousands of employees and which spans $5 billion to $8 trillion a year. Their secret operations, and the maneuvering and billions they耗 and give them vast power. That power must be harnessed under firm control.

Some mechanism must be devised that is more stable than the present oversight, committees of Congress, which, based on their record, could be made accurately described in the "overlook" committee of Congress.

DATE(1) 17 2000 BYSPAALM

MAR-16

ENCLOSURE

NW 88608 DocId:32989626 Page 143