Memo to Mr. W. R. Wannall Re: Senstudy 75 62-116395

CIA communicated with FBIHQ by letters dated 7/6/71 and 2/24/72, concerning the Nunez-Toro and Deborah Fitzgerald matter, requesting each time records review of Bureau files of numerous individuals of interest to CIA. On each occasion CIA was provided with the results of such checks. However, by letter dated 3/2/72, FBIHQ responded to CIA letter dated 2/24/72, by stating, "We have made a study of our file concerning this matter (Nunez-Toro and Fitzgerald) and a detailed review of the referenced material. At the present time, it appears the paramount concern is whether Nunez and Deborah Jane Fitzgerald are obtaining intelligence information concerning your Agency, and you have established a network of sources to cover that aspect. As you indicate, there is no specific evidence that Nunez or Fitzgerald has any connection with a hostile intelligence service or a foreign government. We, therefore, will defer to your Agency until completion of your investigation or the development of information showing they are engaged in subversive activities within our primary jurisdiction." (S)

The FBI did not conduct an internal security-type investigation regarding the relationship of Nunez-Toro and Fitzgerald. The FBI did conduct an internal security-type investigation of Nunez-Toro in 1965 as a result of his reported disaffection for the United States while living abroad. We reopened that investigation in 1969 when it was reported that Nunez-Toro communicated with the Cuban Embassy, Ottawa, Canada. That investigation was closed when it was established his family desired to return to Cuba and his contact was in that regard. (S)

A review of FBIHQ files contain no information that any FBI employee was knowledgeable, before or after the fact, of a surreptitious entry on the part of CIA personnel, into the premises of Nunez-Toro and Deborah Fitzgerald. That surreptitious entry by CIA personnel into the premises of Nunez-Toro and Fitzgerald located in Fairfax, Virginia, received considerable publicity recently, when it was alleged that Fairfax police assisted the CIA during the entry. (S)

ASSESSMENT:

No compromise of an on-going FBI operation.

NW 88608 DocId:32989633 Page 5