authority. The Secretary took issue with a portion of Dr. Land's statement on the grounds that it assumed that there is no one in the intelligence community who has any policy responsibility. The Secretary said that he thought this was incorrect because the Director of Central Intelligence frequently acted as one having policy responsibilities.

The Secretary observed that while the intelligence needs are great there are other requirements which the United States must take into account and that these must all be balanced out. He emphasized again at this point that overflying another country in peacetime is a difficult thing.

The Secretary then reverted to the question of traditional espionage and expressed the view that "we have gotten a little lazy on espionage". He noted that during World War II excellent espionage results were obtained by virtue of a "most fabulous combination of blue bloods and thugs". The Secretary favored resumption now of this World War II practice.

At this point Dr. Killian inquired of the Secretary as to whether he was satisfied that Mr. McCone's report on Cuba dated December 26th reflects a fair statement of the State Departments views. The Secretary said he had been unable to examine the report fully; that he had complete confidence in the relationships which his Department has with Mr. McCone, but that he would take exception to "the juxta-position of things on the four-flight matter". Mr. Hilsman joined the Secretary in this view. The Secretary urged that the Board members be as analytical as possible in examining the Cuba situation. He encouraged them to remember the "atmosphere of the times". He hoped the Board would be "as precise as possible" in examining the overflight matter stating that "if you think the U-2 is not serious, you are on the wrong track".

Mr. Gray indicated that it was the Board's understanding that the President approved all overflights recommended, and he then suggested that apparently there were some flights that were not rejected, but neither were they made. To this the Secretary stated that what ought to be looked at were the flights that were laid on from September 20 to October 5 or 6. He noted that during this period, following the September 19 estimate of the intelligence community on Cuba, there was some delay in distributing reports from refugee and agent sources on the sightings of long-range missiles in Cuba. He again noted that just prior to this period there was a loss of a Chinat operated U-2 over the

NWO-85 Doctd: 250 F Page 5 NW 88192

DocId:34671886 Page 10