SUGGESTION MEMORANDUM ARTICLES CONCERNING ACTIVITIES OF RACIAL EXTREMISTS RESEARCH SECTION

INSPECTOR EDWARD S. MILLER: The Research Section prepares a number of timely monographs and other studies dealing with the activities of racial extremists. These papers, as well as the daily teletype summary and the weekly "Summary of Extremist Activities," serve to keep Bureau personnel, appropriate government officials, and the intelligence community advised on the up-to-date situation involving these matters.

Much information received is from public sources or otherwise of a non-confidential nature. The Bureau is in a unique position to collate and place in perspective the information concerning activities of these violence-prone extremists. This data could be used for preparation of articles for publication in magazines, journals, and newspapers which would serve to expose these individuals and organizations for what they are. Such articles would give the public an insight into the true nature of these extremists who would destroy our system of government and our society. This would serve to diminish public sympathy and support for their activities and would strengthen public support of law enforcement in general.

Although the Bureau has prepared and/or been instrumental in the publication of a number of articles concerning the campus revolutionaries of the New Left and of white hate groups, the only recent material we have made available to the public concerning racial extremist activities is that set forth in the Appropriations testimony. There is a definite need for good, timely articles for public consumption placing in perspective and showing the true nature of the activities of racial extremists. The Crime Records Division has sources available to facilitate publication of such material.

SUGGESTION

It is suggested that Research Section, with the assistance of and in coordination with the Crime Records Division, correlate the preparation and publication of articles dealing

DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INSPECTION 1/20/71 MSR:mcm/mkz

NW 88808 DocId:32989638 Page 577

208