U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC); INTERVIEW OF SUPERVISOR RICHARD H. BLOESER BY SSC STAFF MEMBER

Mr. Seidel then posed a hypothetical question involving the following factors: Would Supervisor Bloeser now or in the past approve a counter intelligence proposal whereby one extremist with a criminal record of violence be anonymously informed that another extremist with a record of criminal violence was an informant for the FBI, knowing that the alleged informant might be injured or killed. Supervisor Bloeser replied that under the present conditions such a proposal would not be approved, but that he could not give an answer as to what his feelings might have been six or seven years ago under any given situation. Mr. Seidel was again reminded that Congress in the past has not hesitated to support wars which kill thousands of people but that recently they have criticized the CIA for allegedly plotting to assassinate one individual whose death might prevent a war. Mr. Seidel was also informed that it was ironic that Congress was investigating another agency of the Federal Government which was attempting to prevent revolutionary violence in this country.

Mr. Seidel then inquired into the counter intelligence proposals approved by the Bureau in relation to the actress Jean Seberg and Raymond Hewitt, a leader of the BPP. This proposal concerned the fact that Seberg, who was then married to a French producer, admitted being pregnant by Hewitt who was also married at the time. The Bureau approved anonymously leaking this information to a Hollywood columnist. Mr. Seidel inquired as to whether Supervisor Bloeser did or did not believe that this was an invasion of privacy. Supervisor Bloeser responded that the item was news worthy and that it would have been any fair game for any newsmen had they come across it in the course of their business which they could have probably easily done, and that certainly Congress would not have criticized a newspaper for printing such an item or claim it to be an invasion of privacy. Mr. Seidel inquired as to the purpose of this particular operation and he was informed that Miss Seberg was giving support to the BPP and that it was hoped that such publicity would prevent any future support by her of the BPP.