ANTIWAR MOVEMENT

This Unit is responsible for the investigation of dissident protest groups in order that their potential threat to the internal security of the country can be assessed. This includes development of informant coverage and the dissemination of timely intelligence information, as well as possible violations of Federal laws.

The organizations concerned are the communist Socialist Workers Party (SWP), its youth group, the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA), and the Student Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam (SMC) which is controlled by the SWP/YSA. All three of these groups utilize the National Peace Action Coalition (NPAC) as a vehicle to project their antiwar message. The Peoples Coalition for Peace and Justice (PCPJ), continuation group of the New Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam (NMC), also exercises considerable influence in the antiwar movement and is a target for infiltration by the Communist Party, USA (CP). The May Day Collective (MDC), organized by Rennie Davis, is a militant group which split from the PCPJ following the May, 1971, demonstrations in Washington, D. C. Also of considerable interest is the Vietnam Veterans Against the War (VVAW) which came into prominence during the Washington demonstrations. We have disseminated on a daily basis hundreds of reports and memoranda concerning the activities of these and other groups, as well as information regarding principal activists. This dissemination has been augmented by the preparation of several CINALS pertinent to specific demonstrations, conferences, or activities.

Of particular value has been our coverage of national conferences and conventions sponsored by various groups which are used to plan future antiwar activity and demonstrations. We have been able to cover these sessions most effectively and have furnished other interested Government agencies with advance information of their plans. Included in these conferences were the following:

2/19-21/71 -- National student antiwar conference, Washington, D. C., sponsored by SMC.

5/15/71 -- SMC National Steering Committee meeting.

* 6/25-27/71 -- PCPJ national conference, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.