On 6/29/71 Mardian telephonically advised he was sending a Depart- mental attorney to see Senator Charles McC. Mathias, Jr., who had received from Ellsberg some copies of classified documents. He said the Departmental attorney would discuss with Mathias the possibility of Mathias' turning these documents over to him. Mardian asked if we wanted to have an Agent accompany the attorney. The Director concurred that no Agent accompany the attorney, stating, "Let Mardian's emissary accept them."

On 7/21/71 when Agents of Washington Field Office endeavored to interview Mr. Charles W. Cooke, Special Assistant to the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, they were advised by Cooke that he would not submit to interview in the absence of clearance granted by the Deputy Attorney General. This was in pursuance of a lead which had been referred to us by Mardian , and when the Cooke interview was attempted it was learned for the first time that two attorneys from the Internal Security Division had been designated to conduct the interview with Cooke .

On 8/10/71 one of Mardian's attorneys telephoned to say that he was going to interview an informant the next day in connection with this case and asked if the Bureau would arrange a place where he could meet securely with the informant and whether the Bureau desired to have an Agent present during the interview. In concurring that Bureau should not accede to these requests, the Director noted, "If Mardian's outfit would refrain from what are basically investigative activities and leave it to the Bureau there would be less friction."

On 8/12/71 the Bureau received through misrouting a communication which Mardian had addressed to the Attorney General to summarize current information in what he described as "Our continuing investigation into the acquisition of the 'McNamara Study' by the 'New York Times.'" The Director inquired whether Mardian's outfit was conducting their own investigation in this matter, as indicated by the contents of the memorandum. As a matter of fact, material summarized by Mardian was nothing more than information extracted from Bureau teletypes showing FBI investigative results.

With respect to Mardian's efforts to direct our investigative activities, the following are the most recent examples:

By letters dated 8/12 and 8/23/71 we received from Mardian lengthy instructions for conducting of investigation in the Ellsberg matter. It is quite evident from a review of these communications that the requests contained therein are the results of disorganized review of the material furnished to Department by the Bureau.