All United States governmental components have some individual internal responsibility for the security of personnel, records, and physical facilities. Aside from these basic security functions, the overall counterintelligence role in the United States Government is shared by several specific intelligence agencies. The conduct of counterintelligence overseas is one of CIA's original functions flowing from the National Security Act of 1947, as amended, and specifically spelled out and developed in a series of National Security Council Intelligence Directives. The FBI has the general responsibility for conduct of counterintelligence operations within the United States based on statutory responsibilities (enforcement of espionage, sabotage, neutrality, registration acts, and related matters) as well as a series of Presidential Directives and Attorney General orders.

Success of United States counterintelligence is proportionate to the extent to which it exists as an integrated, unified concept with fullest coordination among the separate agencies. It did not exist as such until World War II; and only small progress was made after that war, despite the National Security Act of 1947. An integrated system first began to take shape in 1958, when the National Security Council moved directly into the problem. Intelligence and counterintelligence directives which established the basic ground rules were formulated and placed in effect. As a result the United States has a set of counterintelligence concepts and precepts that organize our experience and hold us together. Throughout the recent years interagency coordination and cooperation have become a working reality, becoming more and more effective as the level of coordination continues to rise.

The effectiveness of counterintelligence also requires recognition of its separateness as a function. In CIA and elsewhere, before the mid-1950s, counterintelligence was often identified only with security and the ad hoc exchange of limited amounts of information in liaison. It was sometimes regarded as an adjunct to other specialities,